™xHSKBTFy2 146 zv*:+:!:+:!

HUMAN
DEVELOPMENT
REPORT 2004

ISBN 0-19-522146-X

Cultural Liberty in Today’s Diverse World
Key to countries

74
142
61
133
89
85
83
37
26
47
69
57
159
39
71
87

123
77
157
35
177
25
42
27
124
119
20
96
139
67
137
2
11
106
116
162
76
158
143
63
54
92
88
86
146
70
49
12
8
46
107
129
68
112
149
164
147

São Tomé and Principe
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Slovakia
Slovenia
Solomon Islands
South Africa
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Suriname
Swaziland
Sweden
Switzerland
Syrian Arab Republic
Tajikistan
Tanzania, U. Rep. of
Thailand
Timor-Leste
Togo
Tonga
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
United States
Uruguay
Uzbekistan
Vanuatu
Venezuela
Viet Nam
Yemen
Zambia
Zimbabwe

In our diverse world more than two-thirds of countries have minority groups that make up more
than 10% of their population, and nearly a billion people belong to groups subject to some form
of exclusion. Human Development Report 2004: Cultural Liberty in Today’s Diverse World argues
that states must actively devise multicultural policies to prevent discrimination on cultural
grounds—religious, ethnic and linguistic. The expansion of cultural freedoms, not suppression, is
the only sustainable option to promote stability, democracy and human development within and
across societies.
Such policies are not always simple, but many countries are making headway. The Report debunks
the myths that have been used to deny expansions of cultural freedoms, showing that diversity is
not a threat to state unity, not the source of inevitable “clashes”, not an obstacle to development.
Instead, it is at the core of human development—the ability of people to choose who they are.
The Report presents a path-breaking framework to examine issues that leap from the headlines
to the forefront of the international policy agenda: migration, predatory extremism, customary law
and cultural diversity.
In its 15th year, the annual Human Development Report continues to frame debates on the most
pressing challenges—new and old—for enabling people to live full and creative lives.
Human Development Report 2004…
• Features an analysis of the vital links between human development and cultural
liberty by Nobel Laureate Amartya Sen.
• Identifies living mode exclusions as well as political, economic and social
exclusions (participation exclusion) faced by culturally identified groups.
• Presents cutting-edge multicultural approaches covering power-sharing, religious
and secular states, language policy, legal pluralism and affirmative action.
• Analyzes the rise of coercive movements for cultural domination and their
challenges to democracies.
• Examines key areas of policy for cultural diversity and globalization, including
traditional knowledge, trade in cultural goods and migration.
• Includes special contributions from Shirin Ebadi, John Hume, Hamid Karzai,
Nelson Mandela and Ole Henrik Magga.

HDR Website: http://hdr.undp.org

OXFORD

75

Lesotho
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Macedonia, TFYR
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Maldives
Mali
Malta
Mauritania
Mauritius
Mexico
Moldova, Rep. of
Mongolia
Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar
Namibia
Nepal
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Norway
Occupied Palestinian
Territories
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Qatar
Romania
Russian Federation
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines
Samoa (Western)

Cultural Liberty in Today’s Diverse World

Albania
Algeria
Angola
Antigua and Barbuda
Argentina
Armenia
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belarus
Belgium
Belize
Benin
Bhutan
Bolivia
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Botswana
Brazil
Brunei Darussalam
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Cape Verde
Central African Republic
Chad
Chile
China
Colombia
Comoros
Congo
Congo, Dem. Rep. of the
Costa Rica
Côte d'Ivoire
Croatia
Cuba
Cyprus
Czech Republic

145
58
41
15
60
150
165
59
84
174
31
152
64
53
113
117
125
171
132
126
140
5
18
118
176
151
1
102

•

65
108
166
55
34
82
3
14
91
51
40
138
29
62
6
99
161
134
114
66
128
72
33
56
175
173
130
141
4
105
169
167
43
94
73
136
144
168
45
163
48
52
30
32

Denmark
Djibouti
Dominica
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Egypt
El Salvador
Equatorial Guinea
Eritrea
Estonia
Ethiopia
Fiji
Finland
France
Gabon
Gambia
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Guyana
Haiti
Honduras
Hong Kong, China (SAR)
Hungary
Iceland
India
Indonesia
Iran, Islamic Rep. of
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Korea, Rep. of
Kuwait
Kyrgyzstan
Lao People's Dem. Rep.
Latvia
Lebanon

HDR 2004

HDI
RANK

17
154
95
98
100
120
103
109
156
36
170
81
13
16
122
155
97
19
131
24
93
121
160
172
104
153
115
23
38
7
127
111
101
10
22
21
79
9
90
78
148
28
44
110
135
50
80

Accommodating people’s growing demands for their inclusion in society,
for respect of their ethnicity, religion, and language, takes more than democracy
and equitable growth. Also needed are multicultural policies that
recognize differences, champion diversity and promote cultural freedoms,
so that all people can choose to speak their language, practice
their religion, and participate in shaping their culture—
so that all people can choose to be who they are.

NEW MATERIALS FROM THE HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT OFFICE
HDR Background Papers and National Human Development Reports
Available on the HDR website at: http://hdr.undp.org

Journal of Human Development: Alternative Economics in Action
Launched in January 2000, this journal provides a new perspective on human potential, growth, and markets.
The editors believe that development cuts across economic, social and political issues and that this multidimensional nature is often overlooked. This peer-reviewed journal publishes original work that expands
concepts and measurement tools for human development and that challenges traditional views of economics.
It provides a forum for an open exchange of ideas among a broad spectrum of policy makers, economists,
and academics. It addresses issues at the global, national and local levels. Human development is becoming
a “school of thought” for alternative economic approaches, and the journal acts as a conduit for members
and critics of this school.
Available through:
Carfax Publishing, Taylor and Francis Ltd.
Customer Services Department,
Rankine Road, Basingstoke, Hants RG24 8PR, UK
Tel: +44(0)1256 813002, Fax: +44(0)1256 330245
Email: journals.orders@tandf.co.uk
Website: www.tandf.co.uk/journals

Carfax Publishing, Taylor and Francis Inc.
Customer Services Department
325 Chestnut Street, 8th Floor
Philadelphia, PA 19106, USA
Tel:+1 215-625-8900, Fax: +1215 625 8914
Carfax Publishing, Taylor and Francis Ltd.
PO Box 352, Cammeray
NSW 2062, Australia
Tel: +61 (0)2 99585329, Fax: +61 (0)2 9958 2376

Themes of the Human Development Reports

Handprints. Across time, cultures and continents they carry the message, “I am”.
I am an artist of the Pleistocene. I left my handprint in caves from Gibraltar to Tasmania.
I am a five-year-old child. I hope to start school in 2005 and learn in my own language.
I am a worker in the city, but I am also an elder of my people, a caretaker and teacher of our beliefs and customs.
Culture is the most enduring artifact of humanity, and humans have flourished on the Earth
mainly through culture. Family, tribe, chiefdom, nation-state.

2003
2002
2001
2000
1999
1998
1997
1996
1995
1994
1993
1992
1991
1990

Millennium Development Goals: A Compact Among Nations to End Human Poverty
Deepening Democracy in a Fragmented World
Making New Technologies Work for Human Development
Human Rights and Human Development
Globalization with a Human Face
Consumption for Human Development
Human Development to Eradicate Poverty
Economic Growth and Human Development
Gender and Human Development
New Dimensions of Human Security
People’s Participation
Global Dimensions of Human Development
Financing Human Development
Concept and Measurement of Human Development

I am my language, my symbols, my beliefs.
I am. We are.

For more information visit:
http://hdr.undp.org

HUMAN
DEVELOPMENT
REPORT 2004
Cultural liberty
in today’s
diverse world

Published
for the United Nations
Development Programme
(UNDP)

Copyright ©2004
by the United Nations Development Programme
1 UN Plaza, New York, New York, 10017, USA
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced,
stored in a retrieval system or transmitted, in any form or by any means,
electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or otherwise,
without prior permission.

ISBN 0-19-522146-X
9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
Printed by Hoechstetter Printing Co. on chlorine-free paper with vegetable inks and
produced by means of environmentally compatible technology.
Cover and design: Gerald Quinn, Quinn Information Design, Cabin John, Maryland
Information design: Grundy & Northedge, London
Editing, desktop composition and production management: Communications Development Incorporated,
Washington, DC
For a listing of any errors or omissions in HDR2004 found subsequent to printing, please visit our website at
http://hdr.undp.org

TEAM FOR THE PREPARATION OF

Human Development Report 2004
Director and Lead Author
Sakiko Fukuda-Parr
Core team
Carla De Gregorio, Haishan Fu (Chief of Statistics), Ricardo
Fuentes, Arunabha Ghosh, Claes Johansson, Christopher
Kuonqui, Santosh Mehrotra, Tanni Mukhopadhyay, Stefano
Pettinato, David Stewart and Emily White
Statistical adviser: Tom Griffin

Principal consultants
Amartya Sen (Chapter 1), Lourdes Arizpe, Robert Bach, Rajeev
Bhargava, Elie Cohen, Emmanuel de Kadt, Nicholas Dirks,
K.S. Jomo, Will Kymlicka, Valentine Moghadam, Joy
Moncrieffe, Sam Moyo, Brendan O’Leary, Kwesi Kwaa Prah,
Barnett R. Rubin, Daniel Sabbagh, D.L. Sheth, Rodolfo
Stavenhagen, Alfred Stepan, Deborah Yashar and Aristide
Zolberg

Editors: Cait Murphy and Bruce Ross-Larson
Cover and layout design: Gerald Quinn
Information design: Grundy & Northedge
HDRO colleagues
The team expresses its sincere gratitude for the invaluable support and contributions from their colleagues in the Human Development
Report Office (HDRO). Administrative support for the Report’s preparation was provided by Oscar Bernal, Renuka Corea-Lloyd and
Mamaye Gebretsadik. Outreach and promotional work for the Report were provided by Nena Terrell with Maria Kristina Dominguez
and Anne-Louise Winsløv. HDRO operations were managed by Yves Sassenrath with Marie Suzanne Ndaw. And the team collaborated
with members of the National Human Development Report (NHDR) Unit including: Sarah Burd-Sharps (Deputy Director HDRO and
Chief NHDR Unit), Marcia de Castro, Sharmila Kurukulasuriya, Juan Pablo Mejia and Mary Ann Mwangi.

Foreword

At a time when the notion of a global “clash of
cultures” is resonating so powerfully—and
worryingly—around the world, finding answers
to the old questions of how best to manage and
mitigate conflict over language, religion, culture
and ethnicity has taken on renewed importance.
For development practitioners this is not an abstract question. If the world is to reach the Millennium Development Goals and ultimately
eradicate poverty, it must first successfully confront the challenge of how to build inclusive,
culturally diverse societies. Not just because doing
so successfully is a precondition for countries to
focus properly on other priorities of economic
growth, health and education for all citizens. But
because allowing people full cultural expression
is an important development end in itself.
Human development is first and foremost
about allowing people to lead the kind of life they
choose—and providing them with the tools and
opportunities to make those choices. In recent
years Human Development Report has argued
strongly that this is as much a question of politics as economics—from protecting human rights
to deepening democracy. Unless people who
are poor and marginalized—who more often
than not are members of religious or ethnic minorities or migrants—can influence political action at local and national levels, they are unlikely
to get equitable access to jobs, schools, hospitals, justice, security and other basic services.
This year’s Report builds on that analysis,
by carefully examining—and rejecting—claims
that cultural differences necessarily lead to social, economic and political conflict or that inherent cultural rights should supersede political
and economic ones. Instead, it provides a powerful argument for finding ways to “delight in
our differences”, as Archbishop Desmond Tutu
has put it. It also offers some concrete ideas on
what it means in practice to build and manage

the politics of identity and culture in a manner
consistent with the bedrock principles of human
development.
Sometimes, that is relatively easy—for example, a girl’s right to an education will always
trump her father’s claim to a cultural right to
forbid her schooling for religious or other reasons. But the question can get much more complicated. Take education in the mother tongue.
There is persuasive evidence that young children
are more successful learning in their own language. However, what is an advantage at one
point in life—and indeed may remain an indispensable bedrock of identity throughout
life—can turn into a disadvantage in other ways
when lack of proficiency in more widely used
national or international languages can severely
handicap employment opportunities. As this
Report makes clear, from affirmative action to
the role of the media, there are no easy—or
one size fits all—rules for how best to build
working multicultural societies.
Even so, one overarching lesson is clear:
succeeding is not simply a question of legislative and policy changes, necessary though they
be. Constitutions and legislation that provide
protections and guarantees for minorities, indigenous people and other groups are a critical foundation for broader freedoms. But unless
the political culture also changes—unless citizens come to think, feel and act in ways that genuinely accommodate the needs and aspirations
of others—real change will not happen.
When the political culture does not change,
the consequences are disturbingly clear. From disaffected indigenous groups across Latin America,
to unhappy minorities in Africa and Asia, to new
immigrants across the developed world, failing to
address the grievances of marginalized groups
does not just create injustice. It builds real problems for the future: unemployed, disaffected

v

youth, angry with the status quo and demanding
change, often violently.
That is the challenge. But there are also real
opportunities. The overarching message of
this Report is to highlight the vast potential of
building a more peaceful, prosperous world by
bringing issues of culture to the mainstream of
development thinking and practice. Not to
substitute for more traditional priorities that
will remain our bread and butter—but to complement and strengthen them. The flip side of
the development divide is that developing
countries are often able to draw on richer,
more diverse cultural traditions—whether captured in language, art, music or other forms—
than their wealthier counterparts in the North.
The globalization of mass culture—from books
to films to television—clearly poses some significant threats to these traditional cultures. But
it also opens up opportunities, from the narrow sense of disadvantaged groups like Australian Aborigines or Arctic Inuit tapping

global art markets, to the broader one of creating more vibrant, creative, exciting societies.
Like all Human Development Reports,
this is an independent study intended to stimulate debate and discussion around an important issue, not a statement of United
Nations or UNDP policy. However, by taking
up an issue often neglected by development
economists and putting it firmly within the
spectrum of priorities in building better, more
fulfilled lives, it presents important arguments
for UNDP and its partners to consider and act
on in their broader work. This year, I would
also like to pay particular tribute to Sakiko
Fukuda-Parr, who is stepping down after 10
successful years leading our Human Development Report Office. I would also like to
extend special thanks to Amartya Sen, one of
the godfathers of human development, who has
not only contributed the first chapter but been
an enormous influence in shaping our thinking on this important issue.

Mark Malloch Brown
Administrator, UNDP

The analysis and policy recommendations of this Report do not necessarily reflect the views of the United Nations Development Programme, its Executive Board or its Member States. The Report is an independent publication commissioned by UNDP. It is the fruit of
a collaborative effort by a team of eminent consultants and advisers and the Human Development Report team. Sakiko Fukuda-Parr,
Director of the Human Development Report Office, led the effort.

vi

Acknowledgements

This Report could not have been prepared without the generous contributions of many individuals and organizations.
The team expresses its sincere gratitude to
Professor Amartya Sen, who provided the conceptual framework for the Report.
CONTRIBUTORS
The team is particularly grateful for its collaboration with the Director-General of UNESCO,
Koïchiro Matsuura, and his staff, especially
Ann-Belinda Preis, Katarina Stenou and Rene
Zapata.
Many background studies, papers and notes
were prepared on thematic issues related to
identity, cultural diversity and cultural liberty.
These were contributed by Lourdes Arizpe,
Robert Bach, Rajeev Bhargava, Elie Cohen,
Emanuel De Kadt, Carolyn Deere, Nicholas
Dirks, K.S. Jomo, Will Kymlicka, Valentine
Moghadam, Joy Moncrieffe, Sam Moyo, Brendan O’Leary, Kwesi Kwaa Prah, Barnett R.
Rubin, Daniel Sabbagh, Amartya Sen, D.L.
Sheth, Rodolfo Stavenhagen, Alfred Stepan,
Deborah Yashar and Aristide Zolberg. Chapter 2 benefited from the country maps and associated information on conflict provided by the
Bureau for Crisis Prevention and Recovery, especially from the work of Meegan Murray,
Praveen Pardeshi and Pablo Ruiz.
Several organizations generously shared
their data and other research materials: Carbon Dioxide Information and Analysis Center; Caribbean Community Secretariat; Center
for International Comparisons at the University of Pennsylvania; Economic and Social
Commission for Asia and the Pacific; Food
and Agriculture Organization; International

Institute for Strategic Studies; International
Labour Organization; International Monetary Fund; International Organizations for
Migration; International Telecommunication
Union; Inter-Parliamentary Union; Joint
United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS;
Luxembourg Income Study; Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development;
Stockholm International Peace Research Institute; United Nations Children's Fund;
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development; United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean;
United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization Institute for Statistics;
United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees; United Nations Office on Drugs
and Crime; United Nations Office of Legal Affairs; United Nations Population Division;
United Nations Statistics Division; World
Bank; World Health Organization and World
Intellectual Property Organization.
The team also expresses its appreciation for
the support received from the Rockefeller Foundation, especially Ram Manikkalingam, Janet
Maughan, Joan Shigekawa, Lynn Szwaja, Tomas
Ybarro-Frausto as well as Gianna Celli and
Nadia Giladroni at the Bellagio Rockefeller
Foundation Conference and Study Center.
ADVISORY PANEL
The Report benefited greatly from intellectual advice and guidance provided by an external advisory panel of eminent experts. The
panel included Arjun Appadurai, Robert Bach,
Seyla Benhabib, Nancy Birdsall, Jody Narandran Kollapen, Mahmood Mamdani, Sonia
Picado, Surin Pitsuwan, Jorge F. Quiroga,

vii

Paul Streeten, Victoria Tauli-Corpus, Ngaire
Woods, Rene Zapata and Antonina Zhelyazkova. An advisory panel on statistics included
Sudhir Anand, Paul Cheung, Willem DeVries,
Lamine Diop, Carmen Feijo, Andrew Flatt,
Paolo Garonna, Robert Johnston, Irena Krizman, Nora Lustig, Ian Macredie, Marion
McEwin, Wolf Scott, Tim Smeeding and
Michael Ward.
CONSULTATIONS
Many individuals consulted during the preparation of the Report provided invaluable advice, information and material. The Report team
thanks Carla Abouzahr, Yasmin Ahmad, Patricia Alexander, Serge Allegrezza, Anna Alvazzi
del Frate, Shaida Badiee, Yusuf Bangura, Nefise
Bazoglu, Grace Bediako, Matt Benjamin, Yonas
Biru, Ties Boerma, Eduard Bos, Thomas Buettner, Tony Burton, Rosario Garcia Calderon, Joe
Chamie, Shaohua Chen, Paul Cheung, Martin
Chungong, David Cieslikowski, Lee Cokorinos, Patrick R. Cornu, Kim Cragin, Trevor
Croft, Gaurav Datt, Ian Dennis, Yuri Dikhanov,
Dennis Drescher, Asghar Ali Engineer, Hubert
Escaith, Kareen Fabre, Yousef Falah, Richard
Fix, Karl Franklin, Nancy Fraser, Rodolfo Roque
Fuentes, Enrique Ganuza, Peter Ghys, Erlinda
Go, Rui Gomes, Ray Gordon, Marilyn
Gregerson, Ted Robert Gurr, Brian Hammond,
Philomen Harrison, Sabinne Henning, Alan
Heston, Misako Hiraga, Frederick W.H. Ho,
Joop van Holsteyn, Béla Hovy, Piero Ignazi,
Chandika Indikadahena, Jens Johansen,
Lawrence Jeff Johnson, Robert Johnston, Vasantha Kandiah, Alison Kennedy, Sio Suat Kheng,
Elizabeth Kielman, Taro Komatsu, Karoly Kovacs, Olivier Labe, Frank Laczko, Henrik
Larsen, Georges Lemaitre, Denise Lievesley,
Rolf Luyendijk, Nyein Nyein Lwin, Doug Lynd,
Esperanza C. Magpantay, Mary Mahy, Heikki
S. Mattila, Clare Menozzi, Jorge Mernies,
Michael Minges, Anjali Mody, Catherine Monagle, Bruno Moro, Ron Morren, Philip Mukungu,
Angela Ferriol Muruaga, Jack Nagel, Keiko
Osaki, Jude Padyachy, Sonia Palmieri, Rosario
Pardo, Amy Pate, Sulekha Patel, François Pelletier, Bob Pember, Indira Persaud, Francesca

viii

Perucci, Rudolphe Petras, Spyridon Pilos, Lionel Pintopontes, William Prince, Lakshmi
Puri, Agnès Puymoyen, Hantamalala Rafalimanana, Markandey Rai, Vijayendra Rao, Luca
Renda, Clinton Robinson, David Roodman, Ricardo Sibrián, Shaguni Singh, Armin Sirco,
Carl Skau, Petter Stalenheim, Elsa Stamatopoulou, Mark Stoker, Diane Stukel, Ilpo
Survo, Eric Swanson, Tony Taubman, Benedicte
Terryn, Michel Thieren, Anne Thomas, Barbara
Trudell, Elisa Tsakiri, Rafael Tuts, Erica Usher,
Said Voffal, Rick Wacek, Neff Walker, Steve
Walter, Tessa Wardlaw, Jayashree Watal,
Glenys Waters, Catherine Watt, Wendy Wendland, Patrick Werquin, Siemon Wezeman, Anders Widfeldt, Boris Wijkström, Jonathan
Wilkenfeld, Diane Wroge, A. Sylvester Young,
Elizabeth Zaniewski and Hania Zlotnik.
An informal consultation with UN agencies
provided the team with helpful comments and
suggestions. The team thanks Food and Agriculture Organization; International Fund for
Agricultural Development; International Labour
Organization; International Monetary Fund;
Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS;
United Nations Children’s Fund; United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development; United
Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs; United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organization; United Nations Environment Programme; United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights; United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees; United
Nations Human Settlements Programme; United
Nations Institute for Training and Research;
United Nations Population Fund; World Health
Organization; World Intellectual Property Organization and World Bank.
The team would like to thank members of
the UNDP human development reports network (HDR-Net) and civil society network who
provided many insightful comments and suggestions during the network discussions.
UNDP READERS
A Readers Group, made up of colleagues in
UNDP, provided extremely useful comments,
suggestions and inputs during the writing of the

Report. The Report team is especially grateful
to Randa Aboul-Hosn, Fernando Calderon,
Moez Doraid, Gilbert Fossoun Houngbo, Andrey Ivanov, Selim Jahan, Bruce Jenks, Freddy
Justiniano, Inge Kaul, Douglas Keh, Thierry
Lemaresquier, Lamin Manneh, Saraswathi
Menon, Kalman Mizsei, Balasubramaniam Murali, Shoji Nishimoto, Omar Noman, William
Orme, Eugenio Ortega, Hilda Paqui, Ravi Rajan,
Ramaswamy Sudarshan, Mark Suzman, Julia
V. Taft, Gulden Turkoz-Cosslett, Louisa Vinton, Mourad Wahba and Gita Welch.
EDITING, PRODUCTION AND TRANSLATION
As in previous years, the Report benefited from
the editors at Communications Development Incorporated: Meta de Coquereaumont, Elizabeth McCrocklin, Thomas Roncoli, Bruce
Ross-Larson and Christopher Trott. The Report
(including cover) was designed by Gerald Quinn
and laid out by Elaine Wilson. Statistical information appearing in the Report was designed
by Grundy & Northedge.
The production, translation, distribution and
promotion of the Report benefited from the help
and support of the Communications Office of the
Administrator: Djibril Diallo, Maureen Lynch,
Trygve Olfarnes, Bill Orme, Hilda Paqui as well
as Elizabeth Scott Andrews. Translations were reviewed by Helene Castel, Cielo Morales, Vladimir
Scherbov, Andrey Ivanov, and Ali Al-Kasimi.

The Report also benefited from the dedicated work of interns: Valentina Azzarello,
Alexandra Lopoukhine, Rachel Sorrentino and
Rati Tripathi. Emmanuel Boudard and Jessica
Lopatka made valuable contributions to the
statistical team.
Liliana Izquierdo and Gerardo Nunez of
the UN Office of Project Services provided
critical administrative support and management services.
*
*
*
The team expresses sincere appreciation to the
Report’s peer reviewer, Will Kymlicka, who
carefully reviewed drafts and shared his expertise and insights. The team is also grateful to
Ian Macredie, Lene Mikkelsen and David
Pearce, the statistical peer reviewers who scrutinized the data in the Report and lent their statistical expertise.
Finally, the authors are especially grateful
to Mark Malloch Brown, UNDP’s Administrator, for his leadership and vision. And although thankful for all the support they have
received, the authors assume full responsibility
for the opinions expressed in the Report.

Sakiko Fukuda-Parr
Director
Human Development Report 2004

ix

Contents

OVERVIEW Cultural liberty in today’s diverse world
CHAPTER 1 Cultural liberty and human development
Participation and recognition 14
Freedoms, human rights and the role of diversity 15
Identity, community and freedom 16
Globalization, asymmetry and democracy 19
Conclusions 22

1
13

CHAPTER 2 Challenges for cultural liberty 27
Cultural liberty—an uncharted dimension of human development 28
Promoting cultural liberty requires recognizing differences in identity 36
Three myths surrounding cultural liberty and development 38
Today’s challenges for cultural liberty 44
CHAPTER 3 Building multicultural democracies 47
Resolving state dilemmas in recognizing cultural difference 47
Policies for ensuring the political participation of diverse cultural groups
Policies on religion and religious practice 54
Policies on customary law and legal pluralism 57
Policies on the use of multiple languages 60
Policies for redressing socio-economic exclusion 65

50

CHAPTER 4 Confronting movements for cultural domination 73
Movements for cultural domination—today’s challenges 74
Dilemmas for democracies—restrictive or accommodative measures? 77
CHAPTER 5 Globalization and cultural choice 85
Globalization and multiculturalism 88
Flows of investment and knowledge—including indigenous people in a globally integrated world
Flows of cultural goods—widening choices through creativity and diversity 96
Flows of people—multiple identities for global citizens 99
Notes 107
Bibliographic note 110
Bibliography 112

x

91

SPECIAL CONTRIBUTIONS
Human rights embody the fundamental values of human civilizations Shirin Ebadi
23
Diversity—from divisive to inclusive Nelson Mandela
43
Recognition of linguistic diversity in Afghanistan’s Constitution Hamid Karzai
64
Difference is not a threat but a source of strength John Hume
82
Indigenous peoples and development Ole Henrik Magga 91
BOXES
2.1
Two aspects of cultural exclusion 27
2.2
Defining cultural rights lags behind defining civil, political, economic and social rights—why?
2.3
Measuring cultural liberty 31
2.4
The human development index: capturing inequalities across groups 36
2.5
Cultural policies—protecting cultural heritage and promoting cultural liberty 38
2.6
Inequalities between groups can fuel conflict and tension 41
2.7
Solomon Islands’ ethnic difference not the cause of conflict 42
3.1
A rough guide to federalism 50
3.2
The challenge of federalism: Nigeria’s troubled political trajectory and prospects 52
3.3
Proportional representation or winner takes all? New Zealand makes a switch 55
3.4
The many forms of secular and non-secular states and their effects on religious freedom 56
3.5
Hindu and Muslim personal law: the ongoing debate over a uniform civil code 57
3.6
Access to justice and cultural recognition in Guatemala 59
3.7
Multilingual education in Papua New Guinea 61
3.8
How many languages are there in Africa? 85% of Africans speak 15 core languages 63
3.9
Land rights in the Philippines 68
3.10 Experiences with affirmative action in Malaysia and South Africa 70
4.1
Leadership, ideological manipulation and recruiting supporters 77
4.2
Central Asia—the danger in restricting political and cultural liberties 78
4.3
Egypt—distinguishing between moderates and extremists 80
4.4
Algeria—discontent, democraticization and violence 81
4.5
United States—targeting intolerance and hatred 83
5.1
Culture—paradigm shift in anthropology 89
5.2
Sources of global ethics 90
5.3
Private companies and indigenous people can work together for development 94
5.4
Using intellectual property rights to protect traditional knowledge 95
5.5
The debate on cultural goods and the Multilateral Agreement on Investments fiasco 96
5.6
France’s successful support of domestic cultural industries 99
5.7
The headscarf dilemma in France 101
5.8
Temporary contracts—welcoming workers but not people does not work 103
5.9
How Berlin promotes respect for cultural difference 104
TABLES
2.1
Political representation of ethnic minorities in selected OECD parliaments
2.2
Integrating multicultural policies into human development strategies 37

28

35

xi

3.1
4.1
5.1
5.2
5.3

Indicators of internal output and costs of conventional and bilingual schools in Burkina Faso 62
Casualties resulting from sectarian violence in Pakistan, 1989–2003 75
Indigenous population in Latin America
92
Policy choices for the promotion of the domestic film and audiovisual industry—market and industry size matter
Top 10 cities by share of foreign born population, 2000/01 99

98

FIGURES
2.1
Most countries are culturally diverse 28
2.2
Indigenous people can expect a shorter life 29
2.3
Europe’s non-European migrant population has increased significantly . . . and migrants are
coming from more places 30
2.4
Many lack access to primary education in their mother tongue 34
2.5
National holidays are important ways to recognize—or ignore—cultural identities 35
3.1
Indigenous people are more likely than non-indigenous people to be poor in Latin America 67
3.2
Non-whites benefit less than whites from public health spending in South Africa 67
3.3
Group inequalities have declined in Malaysia, but personal inequalities have not 71
3.4
The record of affirmative action in the United States is mixed 71
4.1
Movements for cultural domination—not the same as all fundamentalist or all violent movements 73
4.2
Some European extreme right parties have won steadily increasing vote shares 74
4.3
Democratic participation can expose the fringe appeal of extreme right parties 82
5.1
Top-grossing films of all time at the international (non-US) box office were US films, April 2004 97
5.2
Unprecedented growth in international migration to Europe, North America, Australia and New Zealand, but
refugees remain a small proportion, 1990–2000 100
5.3
More and more governments (rich and poor) want to control immigration, 1976–2001 100
MAPS
2.1
Guatemala exhibits substantial overlap between linguistic communities and social exclusion 37
5.1
Much extractive and infrastructural activity in developing countries is in areas where indigenous people live

92

FEATURES
2.1
The Minorities at Risk data set—quantifying cultural exclusion 32
Figure 1 Discrimination and disadvantage of culturally identified groups can be cultural, political and economic—
with considerable overlap 32
Figure 2 Political and economic exclusion have different causes 32
3.1
State unity or ethnocultural identity? Not an inevitable choice 48
Figure 1 Multiple and complementary identities 48
Figure 2 Trust, support and identification: poor and diverse countries can do well with multicultural policies 49
5.1
What’s new about globalization’s implications for identity politics? 86
Table 1 Top 10 countries by share of migrant population, 2000 87
Figure 1 Rapid increases in investments in extractive industries in developing countries, 1988–97 86
Figure 2 Fewer domestic films, more US films: evolving film attendance, 1984–2001 87
Statistical feature 1 The state of human development 127
Table 1 HDI, HPI-1, HPI-2, GDI—same components, different measurements
Table 2 Eliminating poverty: massive deprivation remains, 2000 129
xii

127

Table 3 Progress and setbacks: child mortality 132
Table 4 Progress and setbacks: primary education 132
Table 5 Progress and setbacks: income poverty 132
Table 6 Countries experiencing a drop in the human development index, 1980s and 1990s 132
Figure 1 Same HDI, different income 128
Figure 2 Same income, different HDI 128
Figure 3 Not enough progress towards the Millennium Development Goals 130
Figure 4 Timeline: when will the Millennium Development Goals be achieved if progress does not accelerate?
Figure 5 Global disparities in HDI 134
Figure 6 Top and high priority countries 134
Index to Millennium Development Goal indicators in the indicator tables 135
Statistical feature 2 Note to table 1: About this year’s human development index 137
HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS
MONITORING HUMAN DEVELOPMENT: ENLARGING PEOPLE’S CHOICES. . .
1
Human development index 139
2
Human development index trends 143
3
Human and income poverty: developing countries 147
4
Human and income poverty: OECD, Central & Eastern Europe & CIS
. . . TO LEAD A LONG AND HEALTHY LIFE. . .
5
Demographic trends 152
6
Commitment to health: resources, access and services
7
Water, sanitation and nutritional status 160
8
Leading global health crises and risks 164
9
Survival: progress and setbacks 168
. . . TO ACQUIRE KNOWLEDGE . . .
10
Commitment to education: public spending
11
Literacy and enrolment 176
12
Technology: diffusion and creation 180

133

150

156

172

. . . TO HAVE ACCESS TO THE RESOURCES NEEDED FOR A DECENT STANDARD OF LIVING. . .
13
Economic performance 184
14
Inequality in income or consumption 188
15
Structure of trade 192
16
Rich country responsibilities: aid 196
17
Rich country responsibilities: debt relief and trade 197
18
Flows of aid, private capital and debt 198
19
Priorities in public spending 202
20
Unemployment in OECD countries 206
. . . WHILE PRESERVING IT FOR FUTURE GENERATIONS . . .
21
Energy and the environment 207

xiii

. . . PROTECTING PERSONAL SECURITY . . .
22
Refugees and armaments 211
23
Victims of crime 215
. . . AND ACHIEVING EQUALITY FOR ALL WOMEN AND MEN
24
Gender-related development index 217
25
Gender empowerment measure 221
26
Gender inequality in education 225
27
Gender inequality in economic activity 229
28
Gender, work burden and time allocation 233
29
Women’s political participation 234
HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS INSTRUMENTS
30
Status of major international human rights instruments
31
Status of fundamental labour rights conventions 242
32
33

238

Human development indices: a regional perspective 246
Basic indicators for other UN member countries 250

Note on statistics in the Human Development Report

251

Technical notes
1
Calculating the human development indices 258
2
Identifying top priority and high priority countries for the Millennium Development Goals
Definitions of statistical terms 268
Statistical references 277
Classification of countries 279
Index to indicators 283

xiv

265

OVERVIEW

Cultural liberty in today’s diverse world

How will the new constitution of Iraq satisfy demands for fair representation for Shiites and
Kurds? Which—and how many—of the languages spoken in Afghanistan should the new
constitution recognize as the official language of
the state? How will the Nigerian federal court
deal with a Sharia law ruling to punish adultery
by death? Will the French legislature approve
the proposal to ban headscarves and other religious symbols in public schools? Do Hispanics in the United States resist assimilation into
the mainstream American culture? Will there be
a peace accord to end fighting in Côte d’Ivoire?
Will the President of Bolivia resign after mounting protests by indigenous people? Will the
peace talks to end the Tamil-Sinhala conflict in
Sri Lanka ever conclude? These are just some
headlines from the past few months. Managing
cultural diversity is one of the central challenges
of our time.
Long thought to be divisive threats to social
harmony, choices like these—about recognizing
and accommodating diverse ethnicities, religions, languages and values—are an inescapable
feature of the landscape of politics in the 21st
century. Political leaders and political theorists
of all persuasions have argued against explicit
recognition of cultural identities—ethnic, religious, linguistic, racial. The result, more often
than not, has been that cultural identities have
been suppressed, sometimes brutally, as state
policy—through religious persecutions and ethnic cleansings, but also through everyday exclusion and economic, social and political
discrimination.
New today is the rise of identity politics. In
vastly different contexts and in different ways—
from indigenous people in Latin America to
religious minorities in South Asia to ethnic minorities in the Balkans and Africa to immigrants
in Western Europe—people are mobilizing
anew around old grievances along ethnic,

OVERVIEW

religious, racial and cultural lines, demanding
that their identities be acknowledged, appreciated and accommodated by wider society. Suffering discrimination and marginalization from
social, economic and political opportunities,
they are also demanding social justice. Also new
today is the rise of coercive movements that
threaten cultural liberty. And, in this era of
globalization, a new class of political claims and
demands has emerged from individuals, communities and countries feeling that their local cultures are being swept away. They want to keep
their diversity in a globalized world.
Why these movements today? They are not
isolated. They are part of a historic process of
social change, of struggles for cultural freedom,
of new frontiers in the advance of human freedoms and democracy. They are propelled and
shaped by the spread of democracy, which is giving movements more political space for protest,
and the advance of globalization, which is creating new networks of alliances and presenting
new challenges.
Cultural liberty is a vital part of human development because being able to choose one’s
identity—who one is—without losing the respect of others or being excluded from other
choices is important in leading a full life. People
want the freedom to practice their religion openly,
to speak their language, to celebrate their ethnic
or religious heritage without fear of ridicule or
punishment or diminished opportunity. People
want the freedom to participate in society without having to slip off their chosen cultural moorings. It is a simple idea, but profoundly unsettling.
States face an urgent challenge in responding to these demands. If handled well, greater
recognition of identities will bring greater cultural diversity in society, enriching people’s
lives. But there is also a great risk.
These struggles over cultural identity, if left
unmanaged or managed poorly, can quickly

Cultural liberty is a vital
part of human
development

1

This Report makes a case
for respecting diversity
and building more
inclusive societies by
adopting policies that
explicitly recognize
cultural differences—
multicultural policies

2

become one of the greatest sources of instability
within states and between them—and in so doing
trigger conflict that takes development backwards. Identity politics that polarize people and
groups are creating fault lines between “us” and
“them”. Growing distrust and hatred threaten
peace, development and human freedoms. Just
in the last year ethnic violence destroyed hundreds
of homes and mosques in Kosovo and Serbia. Terrorist train bombings in Spain killed nearly 200.
Sectarian violence killed thousands of Muslims
and drove thousands more from their homes in
Gujarat and elsewhere in India, a champion of cultural accommodation. A spate of hate crimes
against immigrants shattered Norwegians’ belief
in their unshakable commitment to tolerance.
Struggles over identity can also lead to regressive and xenophobic policies that retard
human development. They can encourage a retreat to conservatism and a rejection of change,
closing off the infusion of ideas and of people
who bring cosmopolitan values and the knowledge and skills that advance development.
Managing diversity and respecting cultural
identities are not just challenges for a few “multiethnic states”. Almost no country is entirely
homogeneous. The world’s nearly 200 countries contain some 5,000 ethnic groups. Twothirds have at least one substantial minority—an
ethnic or religious group that makes up at least
10% of the population.
At the same time the pace of international
migration has quickened, with startling effects
on some countries and cities. Nearly half the
population of Toronto was born outside of
Canada. And many more foreign-born people
maintain close ties with their countries of origin than did immigrants of the last century.
One way or another every country is a multicultural society today, containing ethnic, religious or linguistic groups that have common
bonds to their own heritage, culture, values
and way of life.
Cultural diversity is here to stay—and to
grow. States need to find ways of forging national
unity amid this diversity. The world, ever more
interdependent economically, cannot function
unless people respect diversity and build unity
through common bonds of humanity. In this
age of globalization the demands for cultural

recognition can no longer be ignored by any
state or by the international community. And confrontations over culture and identity are likely to
grow—the ease of communications and travel
have shrunk the world and changed the landscape
of cultural diversity, and the spread of democracy, human rights and new global networks
have given people greater means to mobilize
around a cause, insist on a response and get it.

Five myths debunked. Policies recognizing
cultural identities and encouraging diversity
to flourish do not result in fragmentation,
conflict, weak development or authoritarian
rule. Such policies are both viable, and necessary, for it is often the suppression of culturally identified groups that leads to tensions.
This Report makes a case for respecting diversity and building more inclusive societies by
adopting policies that explicitly recognize cultural differences—multicultural policies. But
why have many cultural identities been suppressed or ignored for so long? One reason is
that many people believe that allowing diversity
to flourish may be desirable in the abstract but
in practice can weaken the state, lead to conflict
and retard development. The best approach to
diversity, in this view, is assimilation around a
single national standard, which can lead to the
suppression of cultural identities. However, this
Report argues that these are not premises—
they are myths. Indeed, it argues that a multicultural policy approach is not just desirable but
also viable and necessary. Without such an approach the imagined problems of diversity can
become self-fulfilling prophecies.
Myth 1. People’s ethnic identities compete with their attachment to the state, so
there is a trade-off between recognizing diversity and unifying the state.
Not so. Individuals can and do have multiple
identities that are complementary—ethnicity,
language, religion and race as well as citizenship.
Nor is identity a zero sum game. There is no inevitable need to choose between state unity and
recognition of cultural differences.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

A sense of identity and belonging to a group
with shared values and other bonds of culture
is important for individuals. But each individual can identify with many different groups. Individuals have identity of citizenship (for
example, being French), gender (being a
woman), race (being of West African origin), language (being fluent in Thai, Chinese and English), politics (having left-wing views) and
religion (being Buddhist).
Identity also has an element of choice: within
these memberships individuals can choose what
priority to give to one membership over another in different contexts. Mexican Americans
may cheer for the Mexican soccer team but
serve in the US Army. Many white South
Africans chose to fight apartheid as South
Africans. Sociologists tell us that people have
boundaries of identity that separate “us” from
“them”, but these boundaries shift and blur to
incorporate broader groups of people.
“Nation building” has been a dominant objective of the 20th century, and most states have
aimed to build culturally homogeneous states
with singular identities. Sometimes they succeeded but at the cost of repression and persecution. If the history of the 20th century showed
anything, it is that the attempt either to exterminate cultural groups or to wish them away elicits a stubborn resilience. By contrast, recognizing
cultural identities has resolved never-ending
tensions. For both practical and moral reasons,
then, it is far better to accommodate cultural
groups than to try to eliminate them or to pretend that they do not exist.
Countries do not have to choose between national unity and cultural diversity. Surveys show
that the two can and often do coexist. In Belgium citizens overwhelmingly replied when
asked that they felt both Belgian and Flemish or
Walloon and in Spain, that they felt Spanish as
well as Catalan or Basque.
These countries and others have worked
hard to accommodate diverse cultures. They
have also worked hard to build unity by fostering
respect for identities and trust in state institutions. The states have held together. Immigrants
need not deny their commitment to their families in their countries of origin when they develop loyalties to their new countries. Fears that

OVERVIEW

if immigrants do not “assimilate”, they will fragment the country are unfounded. Assimilation
without choice is no longer a viable—or a
necessary—model of integration.
There is no trade-off between diversity and
state unity. Multicultural policies are a way to
build diverse and unified states.
Myth 2. Ethnic groups are prone to violent
conflict with each other in clashes of values, so there is a trade-off between respecting diversity and sustaining peace.
No. There is little empirical evidence that cultural differences and clashes over values are in
themselves a cause of violent conflict.
It is true, particularly since the end of the
cold war, that violent conflicts have arisen not
so much between states but within them between ethnic groups. But on their causes, there
is wide agreement in recent research by scholars that cultural differences by themselves are
not the relevant factor. Some even argue that cultural diversity reduces the risk of conflict by making group mobilization more difficult.
Studies offer several explanations for these
wars: economic inequalities between the groups
as well as struggles over political power, land and
other economic assets. In Fiji indigenous Fijians
initiated a coup against the Indian-dominated
government because they feared that land might
be confiscated. In Sri Lanka the Sinhalese majority gained political power, but the Tamil minority had access to more economic resources,
triggering decades of civil conflict. In Burundi and
Rwanda, at different points in time, Tutsis and
Hutus were each excluded from economic opportunities and political participation.
Cultural identity does have a role in these
conflicts—not as a cause but as a driver for political mobilization. Leaders invoke a single
identity, its symbols and its history of grievances, to “rally the troops”. And a lack of cultural recognition can trigger violent mobilization.
Underlying inequalities in South Africa were
at the root of the Soweto riots in 1976, but they
were triggered by attempts to impose Afrikaans
on black schools.
While the coexistence of culturally distinct
groups is not, in itself, a cause of violent conflict,

A sense of identity and
belonging to a group with
shared values and other
bonds of culture is
important for all
individuals. But each
individual can identify
with many different
groups

3

Cultural liberty is the
capability of people to live
and be what they choose

it is dangerous to allow economic and political
inequality to deepen between these groups or to
suppress cultural differences, because cultural
groups are easily mobilized to contest these disparities as injustice.
There is no trade-off between peace and
respect for diversity, but identity politics need
to be managed so that they do not turn violent.

who enjoy autonomy in a parliament that has democratic structures and follows democratic procedures but is part of the Finnish state.
There does not need to be any trade-off between respect for cultural difference and human
rights and development. But the process of development involves active participation of people
in fighting for human rights and shifts in values.

Myth 3. Cultural liberty requires defending traditional practices, so there could
be a trade-off between recognizing cultural
diversity and other human development
priorities such as progress in development,
democracy and human rights.

Myth 4. Ethnically diverse countries are
less able to develop, so there is a trade-off
between respecting diversity and promoting development.

No. Cultural liberty is about expanding individual choices, not about preserving values and
practices as an end in itself with blind allegiance
to tradition.
Culture is not a frozen set of values and practices. It is constantly recreated as people question, adapt and redefine their values and practices
to changing realities and exchanges of ideas.
Some argue that multiculturalism is a policy
of conserving cultures, even practices that violate human rights, and that movements for cultural recognition are not governed democratically.
But neither cultural freedom nor respect for diversity should be confused with the defence of
tradition. Cultural liberty is the capability of
people to live and be what they choose, with
adequate opportunity to consider other options.
“Culture”, “tradition” and “authenticity”
are not the same as “cultural liberty”. They are
not acceptable reasons for allowing practices that
deny individuals equality of opportunity and violate their human rights—such as denying
women equal rights to education.
Interest groups led by self-appointed leaders may not reflect the views of the membership
at large. It is not rare for groups to be dominated
by people who have an interest in maintaining
the status quo under the justification of “tradition” and who act as gatekeepers of traditionalism to freeze their cultures. Those making
demands for cultural accommodation should
also abide by democratic principles and the objectives of human freedom and human rights.
One good model is the Sami people in Finland,

4

No. There is no evidence of a clear relationship, good or bad, between cultural diversity and
development.
Some argue, however, that diversity has
been an obstacle to development. But while it
is undeniably true that many diverse societies
have low levels of income and human development, there is no evidence that this is related to
cultural diversity. One study argues that diversity has been a source of poor economic performance in Africa—but this is related to
political decision-making that follows ethnic
rather than national interests, not to diversity itself. Just as there are multi-ethnic countries that
have stagnated, there are others that were spectacularly successful. Malaysia, with 62% of its
people Malays and other indigenous groups,
30% Chinese and 8% Indian, was the world’s
10th fastest growing economy during 1970–90,
years when it also implemented affirmative action policies. Mauritius ranks 64 in the human
development index, the highest in Sub-Saharan
Africa. It has a diverse population of African,
Indian, Chinese and European origin—with
50% Hindu, 30% Christian and 17% Muslim.
Myth 5. Some cultures are more likely to
make developmental progress than others, and some cultures have inherent democratic values while others do not, so
there is a trade-off between accommodating certain cultures and promoting development and democracy.
Again, no. There is no evidence from statistical analysis or historical studies of a causal

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

relationship between culture and economic
progress or democracy.
Cultural determinism—the idea that a
group’s culture explains economic performance
and the advance of democracy—as an obstacle
or a facilitator, has enormous intuitive appeal.
But these theories are not supported by econometric analysis or history.
Many theories of cultural determinism have
been advanced, starting with Max Weber’s explanation of the Protestant ethic as a key factor
behind successful growth in capitalist economies.
Persuasive in explaining the past, these theories
have been repeatedly proven wrong in predicting the future. When Weber’s theory of the
Protestant ethic was being touted, Catholic countries (France and Italy) were growing faster than
Protestant Britain and Germany, so the theory
was expanded to mean Christian or Western.
When Japan, the Republic of Korea, Thailand
and other East Asian countries achieved record
growth rates, the notion that Confucian values
retard growth had to be jettisoned.
Understanding cultural traditions can offer
insights to human behaviour and social dynamics that influence development outcomes.
But these insights do not offer a grand theory
of culture and development. In explaining economic growth rates, for example, economic policy, geography and the burden of disease are
found to be highly relevant factors. But culture, such as whether a society is Hindu or Muslim, is found to be insignificant.
The same is true with reference to democracy.
A new wave of cultural determinism is starting
to hold sway in some policy debates, attributing
the failures of democratization in the non-Western world to inherent cultural traits of intolerance
and “authoritarian values”. At the global level
some theorists have argued that the 21st century
will see a “clash of civilizations”, that the future
of democratic and tolerant Western states is
threatened by non-Western states with more authoritarian values. There are reasons to be sceptical. For one thing, the theory exaggerates the
differences between “civilization” groups and
ignores the similarities among them.
Moreover, the West has no monopoly on
democracy or tolerance, and there is no unique
line of historical division between a tolerant

OVERVIEW

and democratic West and a despotic East. Plato
and Augustine were no less authoritarian in
their thinking than were Confucius and Kautilya.
There were champions of democracy not just in
Europe but elsewhere as well. Take Akbar, who
preached religious tolerance in 16th century
India, or Prince Shotoku who in 7th century
Japan introduced the constitution (kempo) that
insisted that “decisions on important matters
should not be made by one person alone. They
should be discussed by many”. Notions of participatory decision-making on important public issues have been a central part of many
traditions in Africa and elsewhere. And more recent findings of the World Values survey show
that people in Muslim countries have as much
support for democratic values as do people in
non-Muslim countries.
A basic problem with these theories is the
underlying assumption that culture is largely
fixed and unchanging, allowing the world to be
neatly divided into “civilizations” or “cultures”.
This ignores the fact that while there can be great
continuity in values and traditions in societies,
cultures also change and are rarely homogeneous. Nearly all societies have undergone shifts
in values—for example, shifts in values about
the role of women and gender equality over
the last century. And radical changes in social
practices have occurred everywhere, from
Catholics in Chile to Muslims in Bangladesh to
Buddhists in Thailand. Such changes and tensions within societies drive politics and historical change, so that the way power relationships
affect those dynamics now dominates research
in anthropology. Paradoxically, just as anthropologists have discarded the concept of culture as a bounded and fixed social phenomenon,
mainstream political interest in finding core
values and traits of “a people and their culture” is growing.
Theories of cultural determinism deserve
critical assessment since they have dangerous
policy implications. They can fuel support for
nationalistic policies that denigrate or oppress
“inferior” cultures argued to stand in the way
of national unity, democracy and development.
Such attacks on cultural values would then fuel
violent reactions that could feed tensions both
within and between nations.

A new wave of cultural
determinism is starting to
hold sway

5

Cultural liberty is a
human right and an
important aspect of
human development—
and thus worthy of state
action and attention

6

Human development requires more than
health, education, a decent standard of living
and political freedom. People’s cultural identities must be recognized and accommodated
by the state, and people must be free to express these identities without being discriminated against in other aspects of their
lives. In short: cultural liberty is a human
right and an important aspect of human
development—and thus worthy of state action and attention.
Human development is the process of widening choices for people to do and be what they
value in life. Previous Human Development
Reports have focused on expanding social, political and economic opportunities to expand
these choices. They have explored ways that
policies of equitable growth, expansion of social opportunities and deepening of democracy
can enhance those choices for all people.
A further dimension of human development, difficult to measure and even to define,
is vitally important: cultural liberty is central to
the capability of people to live as they would like.
The advance of cultural liberty must be a central aspect of human development, and this requires going beyond social, political and
economic opportunities since they do not guarantee cultural liberty.
Cultural liberty is about allowing people
the freedom to choose their identities—and to
lead the lives they value—without being excluded from other choices important to them
(such as those for education, health or job opportunities). In practice there are two forms of
cultural exclusion. First is living mode exclusion,
which denies recognition and accommodation
of a lifestyle that a group would choose to have
and that insists that individuals must live exactly
like all others in society. Examples include religious oppression or the insistence that immigrants drop their cultural practices and language.
Second is participation exclusion, when people
are discriminated against or suffer disadvantage in social, political and economic opportunities because of their cultural identity.
Both types of exclusion exist on an extensive scale, across every continent, at every level

of development, in democracies and authoritarian states. The Minorities at Risk data set,
a research project including issues relating to cultural exclusion that has reviewed the situation
of minority groups worldwide, estimates that
about 900 million people belong to groups that
are subject to some form of either living mode
or participation exclusion not faced by other
groups in the state—around one in every seven
people around the world.
Of course, suppressions of cultural liberty
fill the spectrum. At one extreme is ethnic
cleansing. Then there are formal restrictions on
the practice of religion, language and citizenship.
But more frequently cultural exclusion comes
from a simple lack of recognition or respect for
the culture and heritage of people—or from
some cultures being considered inferior, primitive or uncivilized. This can be reflected in
state policies, as in national calendars that do not
observe a minority’s religious holiday, schoolbooks that leave out or belittle the achievements of minority leaders and support to
literature and other arts that celebrate the
achievements of the dominant culture.
Living mode exclusion often overlaps with
social, economic and political exclusion through
discrimination and disadvantage in employment,
housing, schooling and political representation.
The occupational castes in Nepal have under-five
mortality rates of more than 17%, compared
with around 7% for the Newar and Brahmin. In
Serbia and Montenegro 30% of Roma children
have never attended primary school. Latin Americans of European descent often express pride
that they are colour blind and insist that their
states are too. But across the continent indigenous groups are poorer and less represented
politically than the non-indigenous. In Mexico,
for example, 81% of indigenous people are reckoned to have incomes below the poverty line,
compared with 18% for the general population.
Living mode and participation exclusion,
however, do not always overlap. People of Chinese ancestry in South-East Asia, for example, are
economically dominant yet have been culturally
excluded, for example, with Chinese language
schools restricted, publishing in Chinese prohibited and people of Chinese descent socially
pressured to adopt local names. But more often

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

living mode exclusion reinforces exclusion from
other opportunities. This is particularly so for
language. Many groups, especially large minorities such as the Kurds in Turkey and the indigenous people of Guatemala, are excluded
from political participation and economic opportunities because the state does not recognize
their language in schools, law courts and other
official arenas. This is why groups fight so hard
for their languages to be recognized and used in
instruction and in political and legal processes.

None of this is utopian. Incorporating
multicultural policies is not always easy.
Democracy, equitable development and state
cohesion are essential, and many countries are
successfully developing multicultural policies to address cultural exclusion.
Cultural liberty will not just happen, any more
than health, education and gender equity just
happen. Fostering it should be a core concern
of governments, even where there are no explicit
policies of persecution or discrimination.
Some argue that guaranteeing individuals
civil and political rights—such as freedom of
worship, speech and association—is enough to
give them the ability to practice their religion,
speak their language and be free of discrimination in employment, schooling and many
other types of exclusion. They argue that cultural exclusion is a by-product of economic
and political exclusions and that once these are
resolved, the cultural exclusion will disappear
of its own accord.
This has not happened. Many rich and democratic countries, for example, profess to treat
all citizens equally, but are nonetheless home to
minorities who lack proper representation in politics, and for whom harassment and difficulty in
accessing public services are their daily fare.
To expand cultural freedoms requires explicit
policies to address denials of cultural liberty—
multicultural policies. To do this, states need to
recognize cultural differences in their constitutions, their laws and their institutions. They also
need to formulate policies to ensure that the interests of particular groups—whether minorities
or historically marginalized majorities—are not

OVERVIEW

ignored or overridden by the majority or by
dominant groups. And they need to do so in
ways that do not contradict other goals and
strategies of human development, such as consolidating democracy, building a capable state
and ensuring equal opportunities to all citizens.
This is not easy, but there are many examples
of countries around the world adopting innovative approaches for managing cultural diversity.
This Report focuses particularly on five central
policy areas: political participation, religion, access to justice, language and access to socioeconomic opportunities.
Policies for ensuring political participation
Many historically marginalized groups are still
excluded from real political power, and so they
often feel alienated from the state. In some cases
the exclusion is due to a lack of democracy or
the denial of political rights. If so, democratization would be an essential first step. However,
something more is required, because even when
members of minorities have equal political rights
in a democracy, they may be consistently underrepresented or outvoted, and so view the
central government as alien and oppressive.
Not surprisingly, many minorities resist alien or
oppressive rule and seek more political power.
That is why a “multicultural” conception of
democracy is often required.
Several emerging models of multicultural
democracy provide effective mechanisms for
power sharing between culturally diverse groups.
These kinds of power-sharing arrangements are
crucial for securing the rights of diverse cultural groups and minorities and for preventing
violations—either by majoritarian imposition
or by the dominance of the ruling political elite.
Electoral reforms addressed the chronic
underrepresentation of Maoris in New Zealand.
With the introduction of proportional representation in place of the winner-takes-all formula, Maori representation rose from 3% in
1993 to 16% in the 2002 elections, in line with
their share of the population. Reserved seats
and quotas have been critical to ensuring that
the scheduled tribes and castes had a voice in
India and that ethnic minorities were represented in Croatia.

Several emerging models
of multicultural democracy
provide effective
mechanisms for power
sharing between culturally
diverse groups

7

Power sharing
arrangements have
broadly proven to be
critical in resolving
tensions

Federal arrangements are an important approach to power sharing. Almost every one of
the dozen ethnically diverse countries that are
longstanding democracies has asymmetrical federal arrangements in which subunits of the federal state do not all have the same powers. This
arrangement responds more flexibly to the needs
of different groups. For example, Sabah and
Sarawak have a special status in Malaysia, as do
the Basques and 14 other comunidades autonomas in Spain, with autonomy in areas such
as education, language and culture.
Some indigenous people, such as the Inuits
in Canada, have also negotiated self-governing territories. The lesson is that such power sharing
arrangements have broadly proven to be critical
in resolving tensions in countries historically
confronted with secessionist movements, as in
Spain. Introduced early enough, when tensions
are mounting, they can forestall violent conflict.

minorities often mobilize to contest these exclusions. Some religious practices are not difficult to accommodate, but often they present
difficult choices and trade-offs. France is grappling with whether headscarves in state schools
violate state principles of secularism and democratic values of gender equality that state education aims to impart. Nigeria is struggling with
whether to uphold the ruling of a Sharia court
in a case of adultery.
What is important from the human development perspective is to expand human freedoms and human rights—and to recognize
equality. Secular and democratic states are most
likely to achieve these goals where the state provides reasonable accommodation of religious
practices, where all religions have the same relation to the state and where the state protects
human rights.
Policies for legal pluralism

Policies for ensuring religious freedom
Many religious minorities suffer various forms
of exclusion, sometimes due to explicit suppression of religious freedom or discrimination
against that group—a problem particularly common in non-secular countries where the state upholds an established religion.
But in other cases the exclusion may be less
direct and often unintended, as when the public calendar does not recognize a minority’s religious holidays. India officially celebrates 5
Hindu holidays but also 4 Muslim, 2 Christian,
1 Buddhist, 1 Jain and 1 Sikh in recognition of
a diverse population. France celebrates 11 national holidays, 5 are non-denominational and
of the 6 religious holidays all celebrate events in
the Christian calendar, though 7% of the population is Muslim and 1% Jewish. Similarly, the
dress codes in public institutions may conflict
with a minority’s religious dress. Or state rules
about marriage and inheritance may differ from
those of religious codes. Or zoning regulations
may be at odds with a minority’s burial practices.
These sorts of conflicts can arise even in
secular states with strong democratic institutions
that protect civil and political rights. Given the
profound importance of religion to people’s
identities, it is not surprising that religious

8

In many multicultural societies indigenous people and people from other cultural groups have
pressed for recognition of their traditional legal
systems to gain access to justice. For example,
the Maya in Guatemala suffered centuries of oppression, and the state legal system became part
of their oppression. The communities lost faith
in the state system of rule of law, because it did
not secure justice and because it was not embedded in the society and its values.
Several countries such as Guatemala, India
and South Africa are developing approaches to
legal pluralism, recognizing the role of the judicial
norms and institutions of the communities in different ways. Demands for legal pluralism meet
opposition from those who fear that it undermines the principle of a unified legal system or
that it would promote traditional practices contrary to democracy and human rights. For sure,
conflicts do arise—South Africa, for example,
is grappling with the conflict between the rights
of women to inheritance under state constitution
and the rights denied under customary law.
There are real trade-offs societies must face,
but legal pluralism does not require wholesale
adoption of all traditional practices. Culture
does evolve, and cultural liberty is not a kneejerk defence of tradition.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

Language policies
Language is often the most contested issue in
multicultural states. Some countries have tried
to suppress people’s languages, labelling their
use subversive. But the more frequent source of
widespread exclusion in even well-established
democracies is monolingual policy. The choice
of official language—the language of instruction
in schools, the language of legislative debates and
civic participation, the language of commerce—
shapes the barriers and advantages individuals
face in life—political, social, economic and cultural. In Malawi the Constitution requires all
parliamentarians to speak and read English.
English and Afrikaans are still the de facto languages used in the courts of South Africa, even
though nine other languages are now officially
recognized. Recognizing a language means more
than just the use of that language. It symbolizes
respect for the people who speak it, their culture and their full inclusion in society.
The state can be blind to religion, but it
cannot be mute to language. Citizens need to
communicate to feel a sense of belonging, and
the choice of official language symbolizes the national identity. That is why many states resist recognizing multiple languages even when they
champion civil and political freedoms.
Many countries are finding ways to accommodate the twin objectives of unity and diversity
by adopting two or three languages, recognizing
a unifying national language as well as local languages. In many colonized countries this has
meant recognizing the language of administration
(such as English or French), the most widely
used local language and a mother tongue at local
levels. Tanzania has promoted the use of Kiswahili
along with English in schools and government.
India has practised a three-language formula for
decades; children are taught in the official language of their state (Bengali in West Bengal, for
example) and are also taught the two official
languages of the country, Hindi and English.
Socio-economic policies
Socio-economic injustices and inequalities in income, education and health outcomes have been
the defining feature of many multi-ethnic societies

OVERVIEW

with marginal groups—blacks in South Africa and
indigenous people in Guatemala and Canada.
These exclusions reflect long historical roots of
conquest and colonization—as well as entrenched
structures of hierarchy, such as caste systems.
Economic and social policies that promote
equity are critical in addressing these inequalities. Redressing biases in public spending as well
as targeting basic services to people with lower
health and education outcomes would help—but
would not be enough. Multicultural policies that
recognize differences between groups are needed
to address the injustices that are historically
rooted and socially entrenched. For example,
simply spending more on education for children
of indigenous groups would not be enough, for
they are disadvantaged if school instruction is in
the official language only. Bilingual education
would help. Claims over land—such as the claims
of indigenous people over land with mineral resources or the land settled by white colonizers in
Southern Africa—cannot be resolved with policies that expand socio-economic opportunities.
Experience in India, Malaysia, South Africa
and the United States shows that affirmative
action can reduce inequalities between groups.
In Malaysia the ratio of average income between Chinese and Malay populations declined
from 2.3 in 1970 to 1.7 in 1990. In the United
States the proportion of black lawyers rose from
1.2% to 5.1% of the total and the proportion of
black physicians from 2% to 5.6%. In India the
allocation of government jobs, admission to
higher education and legislative seats to scheduled castes and tribes has helped members of
these groups climb out of poverty and join the
middle class.
None of these policies is without its complexities, but the experience of many countries
shows that solutions are possible. Bilingual education may be contested as ineffective, but that
is because it receives too little support to ensure
quality. Affirmative action programmes may be
contested as creating permanent sources of inequality or becoming a source of patronage—but
they can be better managed. These are ways of
responding to demands for cultural inclusion. But
we must also recognize that in the world today
there are also more movements for cultural domination that seek to suppress diversity.

Multicultural policies that
recognize differences
between groups are
needed to address
injustices historically
rooted and socially
entrenched

9

Movements for cultural domination threaten
cultural liberty. Fighting them with illegal and
undemocratic measures violates human rights
and does not make the problem go away. Democratic accommodation is more effective in
exposing the intolerant agendas of such movements and undermining their appeal.

The maintenance of a
liberal society depends on
respecting the rule of law,
listening to political claims
and protecting
fundamental human
rights—even those of
vile people

10

People leading movements for cultural domination believe in their own cultural superiority and
try to impose their ideologies on others, both
within and outside their community. Not all such
movements are violent. Some coerce others using
political campaigns, threats and harassment. In
the extreme they use violent means as well—
hate attacks, expulsions, ethnic cleansing and
genocide. As a political force intolerance is threatening to overwhelm political processes in countries
around the world. Movements for cultural domination take different forms: political parties, militias, violent groups, international networks and
even the state. It is naïve to assume that democratic
societies are immune to intolerance and hatred.
The underlying causes for the rise of movements for cultural domination often include manipulative leadership, poverty and inequality,
weak or ineffectual states, outside political interventions and linkages with the diaspora. These
factors can also inspire nationalist movements—
say, for autonomy or secession. But movements
for national autonomy are not the same as movements for cultural domination. For one thing,
movements for cultural domination can often
arise within the majority group that already dominates the state—such as extreme right parties in
many European countries. Conversely, many
movements for national autonomy can be quite
liberal, recognizing the importance of accommodating diversity within an autonomous territory and seeking only the same respect and
recognition as other nations. What distinguishes
movements for cultural domination is their assertion of cultural superiority and their intolerance. Their targets are freedom and diversity.
The question is how to deal with them? States
have often tried to confront these movements
with repressive and undemocratic methods—
bans on parties, extrajudicial detentions and trials,
legislation that violates fundamental rights and

even indiscriminate force and torture. These measures often suppress legitimate political demands
and processes, resulting in much more extreme
reactions. When the Islamist Salvation Front
(FIS) won the first round of elections in 1991 in
Algeria, the military intervened and banned the
party. The result: a civil war that cost more than
100,000 lives and spurred the growth of intolerant and violent groups.
Instead, democratic accommodation works.
Allowing extreme right parties to contest in elections can force them to moderate their positions
as well, for example, with the Freedom Party
(FPÖ) in Austria or the Justice and Development
Party in Morocco. Electoral competition exposes the fringe appeal of other groups (the
Progress Party in Denmark). Democratic accommodation also gives states the legitimacy to
prosecute hate crimes, reform the curriculum
of religious schools (in Indonesia and Malaysia)
and experiment with community initiatives to improve relations (Mozambique and Rwanda).
The maintenance of a liberal society depends
on respecting the rule of law, listening to political claims and protecting fundamental human
rights—even those of vile people. Intolerance is
a real challenge for cultural liberty—that is why
the means to deal with it must be legitimate.

Globalization can threaten national and local
identities. The solution is not to retreat to conservatism and isolationist nationalism—it is
to design multicultural policies to promote diversity and pluralism.
So far the focus has been on how states should
manage diversity within their borders. But in an
era of globalization states also face challenges
from outside their borders, in the form of international movements of ideas, capital, goods
and people.
Expanding cultural freedom in this age of
globalization presents new challenges and dilemmas. Contacts between people, their values,
ideas and ways of life have been growing and
deepening in unprecedented ways. For many,
this new diversity is exciting, even empowering.
For others, it is disquieting and disempowering.
Many fear that globalization means a loss of

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

their values and ways of life—a threat to local
and national identity. An extreme reaction is to
shut out foreign influences, an approach that is
not only xenophobic and conservative but also
regressive, shrinking rather than expanding
freedoms and choice.
This Report advocates an alternative approach that respects and promotes diversity
while keeping countries open to global flows of
capital, goods and people. That requires policies reflecting the goal of cultural liberty. Policies need to explicitly recognize and respect
cultural difference. They also need to address
imbalances in economic and political power
that lead to loss of cultures and identities.
Such alternatives are being developed and
debated in three hotly contested areas:
• Indigenous people are protesting investments in extractive sectors and misappropriations of traditional knowledge that
threaten their livelihoods.
• Countries are demanding that cultural goods
(mainly cinema and audiovisual products) not
be treated as any other goods in international trade since imports of cultural goods
can weaken national cultural industries.
• Migrants are demanding accommodation of
their way of life and respect for the multiple
identities they have in both the local community and their country of origin. But local
communities are demanding that immigrants
assimilate, or be turned away, for they fear that
their societies are becoming divided and that
national values and identity are being eroded.
How can these demands be accommodated?
How should diversity be respected, and the
asymmetries addressed?
Indigenous people, extractive industries
and traditional knowledge
Investments that disregard indigenous people’s
rights to land and its cultural significance as
well as its value as an economic resource will inevitably invite opposition. So will patenting traditional knowledge under the same conditions.
Three principles are critical: recognizing indigenous people’s rights over knowledge and
land, ensuring that indigenous groups have
voice (seeking their prior informed consent)

OVERVIEW

and developing strategies for sharing benefits.
Some initiatives, though still limited, are being
taken by corporations and national governments
to work with indigenous communities in developing new investments. In Peru government and
corporations have learned the lessons of previous
confrontations and have been involving indigenous communities in decision-making in the Antamina zinc and copper mine since 2001. In
Papua New Guinea investments in community development projects accompany extraction activities. Collaborative ventures between mining
companies and indigenous people in North America and Australia have brought monetary benefits while preserving traditional lifestyles.
Many national governments are taking steps
to recognize traditional knowledge. Bangladesh
recognizes community-based rights to biological
resources and associated traditional knowledge.
Lao PDR documents knowledge in its Traditional Medicines Resource Centre. South Africa
has promised to share with the San Bushmen the
proceeds from drugs developed based on their
knowledge. Countries have already found ways
of using existing intellectual property rights systems to protect traditional knowledge. Industrial
designs are used to protect carpets and headdresses in Kazakhstan. Geographical indications
protect liquors and teas in Venezuela and Viet
Nam. Copyrights and trademarks are used for traditional art in Australia and Canada.
Recognizing diversity means that different
notions of property rights and the cultural significance of knowledge and art forms be accommodated within global regimes. This requires
international action. If current intellectual property standards cannot accommodate commonly
known traditional knowledge or its attributes of
group ownership, the rules will need to be revised.
Loans to countries and companies for projects
that wrongly acquire property or do not compensate communities should be withdrawn.

This Report advocates an
approach that respects
and promotes diversity
while keeping countries
open to global flows of
capital, goods and people

Cultural goods
Should cultural goods be protected in international trade to help protect cultural diversity in
the world? Are films and audiovisual products
cultural goods? Two principles are critical: recognize the role of cultural goods in nurturing

11

Individuals have to shed
rigid identities if they are
to become part of diverse
societies and uphold
cosmopolitan values of
tolerance and respect for
universal human rights

creativity and diversity, and recognize the disadvantage of small film and audiovisual industries in global markets.
Diversity in cultural goods has its own value
because it increases consumer choice and enriches people’s cultural experience. But cultural goods also enjoy economies of scale. So the
products of large producers tend to crowd out
the products of smaller producers, particularly
in poorer countries.
How can diversity be promoted? Mounting
barriers to trade is not the answer, since that reduces choice. Support to cultural industries
rather than tariffs would do more for diversity.
Argentina, Brazil and France have successfully
experimented with production subsidies and
tax breaks for cultural industries, without stopping the flows of cultural products from overseas to local markets. Hungary diverts 6% of
television receipts to promote domestic films.
Egypt uses public-private partnerships to finance the infrastructure for film making.
Immigration
Should immigrants have to assimilate or should
their cultures be recognized? Three principles
are critical: respect diversity, recognize multiple
identities and build common bonds of belonging to the local community. No country has advanced by closing its borders. International
migration brings skills, labour and ideas, enriching people’s lives. Just as traditionalism and
religious practices that violate human rights
cannot be defended, forced assimilation cannot
be a viable solution.
Identities are not a zero sum game. Consider
this, from a Malaysian in Norway: “I am often
asked how long I have lived here; ‘20 years’, I
say. The next remark often is ‘Oh, you are almost Norwegian!’ The assumption here is that
I have become less Malaysian because it is common to think about identity as a zero sum game;
if you have more of one identity, you have less
of another. Identity is somehow imagined like
a square box with a fixed size.”
Two approaches to immigration dominate
most countries’ policies: differentialism (migrants keeping their identities but not integrating into the rest of society) and assimilation

12

(without the choice of keeping the old identity).
But new approaches of multiculturalism are
being introduced that recognize multiple identities. This involves promoting tolerance and
cultural understanding, but also specifically accommodating religious practice, dress and other
aspects of everyday life. It also involves acknowledging that immigrants are voiceless and
insecure in the face of exploitation and providing support for integration such as language
training and job search services.
Countries are expanding the rights of civic
participation to non-citizenship—“denizenship”
(Belgium, Sweden). And more than 30 countries
now accept dual citizenship. To reduce misconceptions and prejudices the Commissioner’s
Office of the Berlin Senate for Integration and
Migration funds immigrant organizations, uses
public information campaigns and offers legal
consultations in 12 languages to help with jobs
and tackle discrimination.
But these policies are contested. Bilingual education in the United States and the wearing of
headscarf in France are divisive issues. Some fear
that they challenge some of the most fundamental values of society—such as commitment
to adopt the American culture, or the French
principles of secularism and gender equality.
*
*
*
Expanding cultural freedoms is an important
goal in human development—one that needs urgent attention in the 21st century. All people
want to be free to be who they are. All people want
to be free to express their identity as members of
a group with shared commitments and values—
whether it is nationality, ethnicity, language or religion, whether it is family, profession or avocation.
Globalization is driving ever-increasing interactions among the world’s people. This world
needs both greater respect for diversity and
stronger commitment to unity. Individuals have
to shed rigid identities if they are to become part
of diverse societies and uphold cosmopolitan values of tolerance and respect for universal human
rights. This Report provides a basis for discussing how countries can make that happen.
If the short history of the 21st century has taught
us nothing else, it is that ducking these questions
is not an option.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

CHAPTER 1

Cultural liberty and human development

Human deprivation can occur in many ways,
some more remediable than others. The human
development approach has been extensively
used in the development literature (including
earlier Human Development Reports) to analyze several prominent sources of affliction,
ranging from illiteracy and a lack of health care
to unemployment and indigence. In this year’s
Report there is a substantial expansion of coverage and reach focusing in particular on the importance of cultural liberty and on the personal
and social loss that can result from its dearth.
This refocusing does not abandon the basic
commitments of the human development approach. The underlying motivation continues to
be to search for ways of enhancing people’s
lives and the freedoms they can enjoy. Denial of
cultural liberty can generate significant deprivations, impoverishing human lives and excluding people from the cultural connections
they have reason to seek. So the human development perspective can be extended to accommodate the importance of cultural liberty.
The cultural dimensions of human development require careful attention for three reasons.
First, cultural liberty is an important aspect of
human freedom, central to the capability of people to live as they would like and to have the opportunity to choose from the options they
have—or can have. The advance of cultural liberty must be a central aspect of human development, and it requires us to go beyond social,
political and economic opportunities, since by
themselves they do not guarantee cultural liberty.
Second, even though there has been much
discussion in recent years about culture and
civilization, the focus has been less on cultural
liberty and more on recognizing—even
celebrating—cultural conservatism. The human
development approach has something to offer in
clarifying the importance of human freedom in
cultural spheres. Rather than glorify unreasoned

CULTURAL LIBERTY AND HUMAN DEVELOPMENT

endorsement of inherited traditions, or warn the
world about the alleged inevitability of clashes
of civilizations, the human development perspective demands that attention go to the importance of freedom in cultural spheres (as in
others), and to the ways of defending and expanding the cultural freedoms that people can
enjoy. The critical issue is not just the significance
of traditional culture—it is the far-reaching importance of cultural choices and freedoms.
Third, cultural liberty is important not only
in the cultural sphere, but in the successes and
failures in social, political and economic spheres.
The different dimensions of human life have
strong interrelations. Even poverty, a central
economic idea, cannot be adequately understood without bringing in cultural considerations. Indeed, the close link between cultural
deprivation and economic poverty was noted by
no less an economist than Adam Smith, whose
works have, as it happens, illuminated the relevance of human development.
Smith argued not only that poverty takes the
gross shape of hunger and physical deprivation,
but that it can also arise in the difficulties that some
groups experience in taking part in the social
and cultural life of the community. In particular,
the analysis of poverty and the diagnosis of what
commodities count as “necessaries” cannot be independent (Smith argued) of the demands of
local culture. As he wrote: “By necessaries I understand not only the commodities which are indispensably necessary for the support of life, but
whatever the custom of the country renders it indecent for creditable people, even the lowest
order, to be without....Custom has rendered
leather shoes a necessary of life in England. The
poorest creditable person of either sex would be
ashamed to appear in public without them.”1
Indeed, culture establishes an important relation between relative incomes and absolute
human capabilities. Relative deprivation in

The underlying motivation
continues to be to search
for ways of enhancing
people’s lives and the
freedoms they can enjoy

13

Even though cultural
correlates are very often
bogus, they clear the road
to discrimination and
exclusion

incomes in the local community can lead to absolute social deprivation. For example, being relatively poor in income in a rich society can
generate absolute poverty because of one’s inability to afford the commodities that the established lifestyle in that society requires—even
though the person may have a higher income
than most people in poorer countries elsewhere.
So, the very notion of economic poverty demands cultural investigation. In giving adequate
recognition to cultural freedom and cultural
influences in human development, we have to
take note of the leverage of established cultures
on our lives, and the significance of the interconnections between the cultural aspects of
human life and the other aspects.

LIVING

MODE EXCLUSION

PARTICIPATION AND RECOGNITION
Deprivation of freedom, including cultural freedom, takes many forms. So does discrimination that can lead to a loss of freedom. As
discussed in this Report, parts of the population
can be subjected to discrimination in different
spheres: political, socio-economic and cultural.
The many dimensions of deprivation—and of
discrimination—demand understanding the
distinctions between different, if interrelated,
processes through which people’s freedoms are
curtailed.
Deprivation often works through processes
of exclusion. Cultural exclusion has recently
received much attention. But two forms of cultural exclusion must be clearly distinguished.
PARTICIPATION

EXCLUSION

First, the cultural exclusion of a person or group
may sometimes take the form of not allowing this
person or group to participate in society in the
way that others are allowed and encouraged to
do. This can be called “participation exclusion”.
Excluding people from participation can be
linked to various characteristics of the persons
involved, such as gender, ethnicity or religion.
The primary basis of discrimination in many
cases of participation exclusion is the cultural
affiliation of the people involved, resulting in
their exclusion from participation in education
or employment or political decision-making.

14

Arguments used to justify such exclusion tend
to invoke alleged cultural correlates of the groups
involved. Particular ethnic groups are said to be
lazy or rowdy or irresponsible, members of minority religions are suspected of having conflicting loyalties to religious authorities and to
the state and so on. Even though these cultural
correlates are very often bogus, they clear the
road to discrimination and exclusion. In some
cases the identifying characteristics used in
discriminatory policy directly invoke cultural attributes. This is particularly so with discrimination against religious communities, but it can
also apply to groups defined by language, social
origin or other identifying characteristic.

A second kind of cultural exclusion denies
recognition of a lifestyle that a group would
choose to have. And this intolerance can go
with the insistence that members of the group
must live exactly like others in the society. This
“living mode exclusion” figures prominently in
religious intolerance—an important challenge
addressed by John Stuart Mill in his famous
essay, “On Liberty” (1859).
Living mode exclusions continue to be strong
in many contexts today, with various manifestations. Religious intolerance, obviously, is still an
important kind of exclusion. Intolerance of some
behaviour patterns in purely personal lives is another example: discriminatory treatment of gays
and lesbians is a common form of living mode exclusion. These exclusions involve direct violation of cultural liberty, and here the violation of
liberty goes with a denial of diversity as well.
This type of exclusion can also be a momentous issue in multicultural societies with
ethnic diversity, particularly with recently arrived
immigrant populations. The insistence that immigrants give up their traditional lifestyles and
adopt the dominant lifestyle in the society to
which they have immigrated illustrates a common type of lifestyle intolerance in the contemporary world.
The demand can extend even to minute behavioural issues about the conduct of immigrants, made famous in Great Britain by Lord
Tebbit’s far-reaching “cricket test” (a legitimate

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

immigrant must cheer for England in test
matches against the country of the person’s origin). Tebbit’s test has the merit of definiteness,
which can otherwise be a problem in a multicultural society in identifying what the dominant
lifestyle actually happens to be. For example,
now that curry has been described as “authentic British fare” by the British Tourist Board (in
line with the prevailing consumption patterns
of the natives of that island), a South Asian immigrant to Britain may have some difficulty,
without Tebbit’s algorithmic help, in determining what is the behaviour pattern to which
he or she is being asked to conform!
Living mode exclusion can be a serious area
of injustice.2 This has been the subject of much
recent work, including what is called the “politics of recognition”, which includes “claims
for the recognition of the distinctive perspectives
of ethnic, ‘racial,’ and sexual minorities, as well
as of gender difference”.3 These considerations
are indeed important for an adequately broad
view of justice, but in the context of human development they are most immediately seen as relevant to the exercise of cultural liberty,
which—like other freedoms—must figure in
the assessment of human development and in
the appraisal of its lapses.
FREEDOMS, HUMAN RIGHTS AND THE ROLE
OF DIVERSITY

The importance of human freedoms can be the
basis of linking them with the idea of human
rights. The recognition of human rights need not
await their legalization in the form of justiciable entitlements. Often enough, they provide the
motivation behind such legislation. Indeed,
even the naming of some laws as “human rights
laws” indicates this connection. As Herbert
Hart, the distinguished legal theorist, put it in
a justly famous essay, people “speak of their
moral rights mainly when advocating their incorporation in a legal system”.4
Indeed, going further, the ethical acknowledgement of human rights, sustained by public
discussions and reasoning, can—and does—go
beyond serving only as the basis for possible legislation.5 Through the activism of individuals
and groups (including dedicated human rights

CULTURAL LIBERTY AND HUMAN DEVELOPMENT

organizations), the freedoms reflected in the acknowledgement of human rights can provide
the grounds for public demands, even widespread collective action and agitation (for example, for the right of minorities to have the
freedom to choose their own lifestyles). The
United Nations itself has been strongly engaged
(particularly through the UN High Commissioners for Human Rights and for Refugees) in
the pursuit of human rights even where national
legislation has lagged behind ethical norms.
As pronouncements in social ethics, sustained by open public reasoning, human rights
call for diverse forms of implementation. The underlying freedoms can be advanced through a
variety of public actions, including recognition,
monitoring and agitation, in addition to legislation and the moral commitments of concerned
people. Affirmation of human rights, founded
on the importance of human freedom in diverse forms, goes with the need to appreciate the
reasons for acknowledging corresponding duties. Sometimes the duties are exactly specifiable,
and sometimes they are only broadly characterized (they include both “perfect obligations”
and “imperfect obligations”, to make use of an
old Kantian distinction). The nature and demands of human rights were extensively explored in Human Development Report 2000.
To be emphasized here is the basic recognition that the idea of human rights links directly
to the safeguarding and advance of human freedoms. This gives reason enough, depending on
circumstances, to defend and promote particular institutions and social arrangements. But such
programmes have only derivative and contingent value, which has to be assessed in terms of
what they actually do to human freedoms. The
ethical force of human rights ultimately depends
on the importance of human freedoms and cannot be detached from that connection. This elementary recognition has an extensive reach.6
One of the subjects that has received considerable attention in the contemporary cultural literature is cultural diversity. Sometimes
it is even seen as a human right that groups of
people, taken together, have. Group rights have
many ambiguities, but it is not hard to argue that
if they are to be taken seriously, their role in enhancing the freedoms of human beings must be

Intolerance can go with
the insistence that
members of the group
must live exactly like
others in the society

15

To argue for cultural
diversity on the ground
that this is what the
different groups of people
have inherited is clearly
not reasoning based on
cultural liberty

16

demonstrated. Even without entering deeply
into the complex debates surrounding the idea
of groups rights, the basic need to link rights to
freedoms can be readily recognized.
This immediately raises questions about the
value of cultural diversity, since it is not itself a
characteristic of human freedoms. It is, however, easy to show that diversity can be important in the cultural sphere. If diversity is not
allowed, many choices become unviable. Nevertheless, if our focus is on freedom (including
cultural liberty), the significance of cultural diversity must vary along with its causal connections
to human freedom.
Quite often these connections are positive
and strong. Indeed, diversity may be both a
consequence of the exercise of human freedom
(particularly cultural liberty) and a source of societal enrichment (particularly cultural enrichment). Cultural diversity may well result if
individuals are allowed and encouraged to live
as they would value living. This would tend to
follow from the earlier discussion on living
mode inclusion. For example, the persistence of
ethnically diverse lifestyles and the recognition
of, and respect for, sexual minorities can make
a society more culturally diverse precisely as a
result of the exercise of cultural liberty. In these
cases the importance of cultural diversity will follow directly from the value of cultural liberty,
since the first is a consequence of the second.
Cultural diversity can also play a positive
role of its own. For example, a culturally diverse
society can bring benefits to others through the
variety of experiences that they are, as a consequence, in a position to enjoy. To illustrate, it can
be plausibly argued that the rich tradition of
African American music—with its African lineage
and American evolution—has not only helped to
enhance the cultural freedom and self-respect of
African Americans, but has also expanded the
cultural options of all people (African American
or not) and enriched the cultural landscape of
America, and indeed the world.
However, the relation between cultural liberty and cultural diversity requires further
examination. The simplest way of having cultural
diversity may well be a conservative continuation
of the variety of cultures that happen to be present at this time. A similar point can be made for

cultural diversity within an individual country,
if it happens to have a variety of cultures within
its borders. Does the championing of cultural diversity then demand support for cultural conservatism, asking that people stick to their own
cultural background and not try to move to other
lifestyles? That would immediately deliver us to
an anti-freedom position, which would look for
ways of blocking the choice of a changed living
mode that many people may wish to have. Indeed, we could then also be in the territory of a
different kind of exclusion: participation exclusion as opposed to living mode exclusion, since
people from minority cultures would be excluded from participating in the mainstream.
The insistence on cultural conservatism can
discourage—or prevent—people from adopting
a different lifestyle, indeed even from joining the
lifestyle that others, from a different cultural
background, standardly follow in the society
in question. Diversity will then be achieved at
the cost of cultural liberty. If what is ultimately
important is cultural liberty, then the valuing of
cultural diversity must take a contingent and
conditional form. Much will depend on how that
diversity is brought about and sustained.
Indeed, to argue for cultural diversity on the
ground that this is what the different groups of
people have inherited is clearly not reasoning
based on cultural liberty (even though the argument is sometimes presented as if it were
pro-freedom reasoning). Nothing can be justified in the name of freedom without actually giving an opportunity for the exercise of that
freedom, or at least without assessing how an opportunity of choice would be exercised if it
were available. Diversity may well be sought
for reasons other than cultural liberty. But to justify the maintenance of pre-existing diversities
on the supposed ground of cultural liberty must,
in the absence of some further argument, be a
straightforward non sequitur.
IDENTITY, COMMUNITY AND FREEDOM
The reasons for being sceptical of giving automatic
priority to inherited culture can be seen in terms
of who makes what choices. Being born in a particular cultural milieu is not an exercise of
freedom—quite the contrary. It becomes aligned

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

to cultural liberty only if the person chooses to
continue to live within the terms of that culture,
and does so having had the opportunity of considering other alternatives. The central issue in cultural liberty is the capability of people to live as
they would choose, with adequate opportunity to
consider other options. The normative weight
of freedom can hardly be invoked when no
choice—real or potential—is actually considered.
As it happens, some communitarian theories
have glorified the absence of choice involved in
the “discovery” of one’s real identity. Michael
Sandel has helpfully explained this claim, which
is part of the “constitutive conception” of community: “community describes not just what
they have as fellow citizens but also what they
are, not a relationship they choose (as in a voluntary association) but an attachment they discover, not merely an attribute but a constituent
of their identity.”7 “The self came by its ends”,
as Sandel further explains, “not by choice but
by reflection, as knowing (or inquiring) subject
to object of (self-) understanding.”8 In this perspective, social organization can be seen (as another communitarian author, Crowley, puts it)
as attempts to “create opportunities for men to
give voice to what they have discovered about
themselves and the world and to persuade others of its worth”.9
The claim that identity is not a matter of
choice but ultimately one of discovery needs further examination, and that larger issue will be
taken up below. For the present argument it is
relevant to note that the special importance and
exceptional gravity that are connected, in this
communitarian perspective, to inherited affiliations and attachments relate to its discoverybased foundation, in contradistinction to things
that are “merely chosen”. Whatever may be the
persuasive power of that claim (it certainly needs
some justification), it is in real tension with attaching importance to choice and the freedom
to choose.
The communitarians are right, however, in
emphasizing the importance of a sense of identity in leading one’s life. Less clear is how identity can be a matter of just discovering something
about oneself, rather than, explicitly or by implication, exercising a choice. These choices are
constantly being made—quite often implicitly

CULTURAL LIBERTY AND HUMAN DEVELOPMENT

but sometimes explicitly, with clear awareness.
For example, when Mohandas Gandhi decided,
after considerable reflection, to give priority to
his identification with Indians seeking independence from British rule over his identity as
a trained barrister pursuing English legal justice,
there can be no question that he was consciously
and firmly making a choice. In other cases the
choice may be implicit or obscure, and also far
less grandly defended than Gandhi’s decision,
but the choice may be no less authentic for that
reason.
Typically, each individual can identify with
many different groups. A person may have an
identity of citizenship (for example, being
French), gender (being a woman), race (being of
Chinese origin), regional ancestry (having come
from Thailand), language (being fluent in Thai,
Chinese and English, in addition to French),
politics (having left-wing views), religion (being
a Buddhist), profession (being a lawyer), location
(being a resident of Paris), sports affiliation
(being a badminton player and a golf fanatic), musical taste (loving jazz and hip-hop), literary preference (enjoying detective stories), food habit
(being a vegetarian) and so on.
The choices are not unlimited (you cannot
choose the identity, for example, of an Inuit or
a Sumo wrestler, if you are not one). But within
the range of the memberships that you actually
have, you can choose what priority to give to one
membership or another, in a particular context. The fact that you have all these—and many
other—memberships may be a matter of “discovery”, but you still have to think and decide
on what relative priorities to give to your various affiliations. The fact that discoveries occur
does not exempt you from the need to choose,
even if the choice is made implicitly.10
The possibility of choice is important in
preventing what Anthony Appiah has called
“new tyrannies” in the form of newly asserted
identities, which can tyrannize by eliminating the
claims of other identities that we may also have
reason to accept and respect. Appiah illustrates
this with the identity of being an African American. That identity has certainly helped in the
past—and continues to do so today—in seeking racial justice in America. But it can also be
oppressive if it is taken to be the only identity

Within the range of the
memberships that you
actually have, you can
choose what priority to
give to one membership
or another, in a particular
context

17

a black person has, with no other claims being
given a hearing. Appiah puts the issue thus:

Cultural critiques of the
victims can be used by the
rulers to justify hugely
inefficient—as well as
deeply iniquitous—
tyrannies

In policing this imperialism of identity—an imperialism as visible in racial identities as anywhere
else—it is crucial to remember always that we are
not simply black or white or yellow or brown, gay
or straight or bisexual, Jewish, Christian, Moslem,
Buddhist or Confucian, but we are also brothers
and sisters; parents and children; liberals, conservatives and leftists; teachers and lawyers and
auto-makers and gardeners; fans of the Padres
and the Bruins; amateurs of grunge rock and
lovers of Wagner; movie buffs; MTV-holics, mystery-readers; surfers and singers; poets and petlovers; students and teachers; friends and lovers.
Racial identity can be the basis of resistance to
racism—and though we have made great progress,
we have further still to go—let us not let our racial
identities subject us to new tyrannies.11

Consider a different—and more ominous—
example. When Hutu instigators a decade ago
tried (and to some extent succeeded) in persuading other members of the Hutu community
in Rwanda that they could plainly see that they
were indubitably Hutus (not to be confused
with “those awful Tutsis”), the unreasoned
killings that followed could have been resisted
by invoking broader identities of Hutus, for
example, as Rwandans, or as Africans, or more
broadly still as human beings. To see identity
merely as a matter of discovery can not only be
a conceptual confusion. It can also lead to a dereliction of duty by thinking human beings—a
moral duty to consider how they would like to
see themselves and with whom they would like
to identify (whether only with the community
of Hutus or also with the nation of Rwandans,
the category of Africans or the collectivity of
human beings). Freedom to choose is important
not only for the individuals who would make the
choice, but it can also be important for others,
when the responsibility that goes with choice is
adequately seized.
BIGOTRY

AND ALIENATION

Complicated theory can sometimes bolster uncomplicated bigotry and make the world a more

18

combustible place than it would otherwise be.12
Rapid-fire cultural generalizations can displace
a deeper understanding of culture and serve as
a tool of sectarian prejudice, social discrimination and even political tyranny. Simple cultural
generalizations, with great power in shaping
ways of thinking, abound in popular beliefs and
informal communication. A subject of many ethnic jokes and slurs, these underexamined beliefs can also surface as pernicious grand theories.
An accidental correlation between cultural prejudice and social observation (no matter how casual) leads to the birth of a theory that may live
on even after the chance correlation vanishes.
For example, jokes about the Irish (such as
“How many Irishmen do you need to change a
light bulb?”) have had some currency in England for a long time. They appeared to fit well
with the depressing predicament of the Irish
economy, when it was in a long-term slump. But
when the economy started growing with astonishing speed, the cultural stereotyping and its allegedly profound economic and social relevance
were not discarded. Theories have lives of their
own, often in defiance of the world that can actually be observed.
The connections between cultural bigotry
and political tyranny can also be very close. The
asymmetry of power between ruler and ruled,
when combined with cultural prejudices, can result in injurious failures of governance, as was
devastatingly observed in the Irish famines of the
1840s. As Richard Lebow has argued, poverty
in Ireland was widely viewed in England as
caused by laziness, indifference and ineptitude,
so that “Britain’s mission” was not seen to be
to “alleviate Irish distress but to civilize her
people and lead them to feel and act like human
beings”.13 Similar uses of cultural prejudice for
political purposes can be seen in the history of
European empires in Africa and Asia. Winston
Churchill’s famous remark that the Bengal
famines of 1943 were caused by the tendency of
people there to “breed like rabbits” belongs to
this general tradition of blaming the colonial victim. And it had a profound effect on relief efforts during that disastrous famine. Cultural
critiques of the victims can be used by the rulers
to justify hugely inefficient—as well as deeply
iniquitous—tyrannies.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

CULTURAL

DETERMINISM

While the marriage of cultural prejudice and political asymmetry can be lethal, the need to be
cautious about jumping to cultural conclusions
is more pervasive.14 Unexamined cultural assumptions can even influence the way experts
view economic development. Theories are often
derived from scanty evidence. Half-truths or
quarter-truths can grossly mislead—sometimes
even more than straightforward falsity, which is
easier to expose.
Consider this argument from the influential
book jointly edited by Lawrence Harrison and
Samuel Huntington, Culture Matters. In the introductory essay, “Cultures count,” Huntington
writes:
In the early 1990s, I happened to come across economic data on Ghana and South Korea in the early
1960s, and I was astonished to see how similar
their economies were then. ....Thirty years later,
South Korea had become an industrial giant with
the fourteenth largest economy in the world,
multinational corporations, major exports of automobiles, electronic equipment, and other sophisticated manufactures, and per capita income
approximately that of Greece. Moreover it was
on its way to the consolidation of democratic institutions. No such changes had occurred in
Ghana, whose per capita income was now about
one-fifteenth that of South Korea’s. How could
this extraordinary difference in development be
explained? Undoubtedly, many factors played a
role, but it seemed to me that culture had to be
a large part of the explanation. South Koreans valued thrift, investment, hard work, education, organization, and discipline. Ghanians had different
values. In short, cultures count.15

in the two countries were quite different, with
a much larger role of business classes in Korea.
The politics were very different too, with the
government in Korea eager to play a primemoving role in initiating business-centred economic development in a way that did not apply
to Ghana. The close relationship between the
Korean economy and the Japanese and US
economies also made a big difference, at least
in the early stages of Korean development. Perhaps most important, by the 1960s Korea had
a much higher literacy rate and a more extensive school system than Ghana had. The Korean
changes had been brought about largely through
resolute public policy since the Second World
War, and were not simply a reflection of ageold Korean culture.
There have, of course, been earlier attempts
to use cultural determinism to explain economic
development. A century ago Max Weber (1930)
presented a major thesis on the decisive role of
the Protestant ethic (in particular, Calvinism) in
the successful development of a capitalist industrial economy. Weber’s analysis of the role
of culture in the emergence of capitalism drew
on the world as he observed it in the late 19th
century. His analysis is of particular interest in
the contemporary world, especially in the light
of the recent success of market economies in
non-Protestant societies.
There may be much to learn from these
theories, and the empirical connections they
expose may be insightful. And yet it is also remarkable how often specific aspects of cultural
explanations, based on observing the past, have
been undermined by later experiences. Indeed,
theories of cultural determinism have often
been one step behind the real world.

Theories of cultural
determinism have often
been one step behind the
real world

GLOBALIZATION, ASYMMETRY AND
There may well be something of interest in
this engaging comparison (perhaps even a
quarter-truth torn out of context), and the contrast does call for probing examination. But
the causal story is extremely deceptive. There
were many important differences—other than
cultural predispositions—between Ghana and
the Republic of Korea in the 1960s, when the
countries appeared to Huntington to be much
the same, except for culture. The class structures

CULTURAL LIBERTY AND HUMAN DEVELOPMENT

DEMOCRACY

There is more to be said on the choice of identity, in particular about problems of equity—
and of distributive justice—that have to be
faced in examining the implications of cultural
inclusion as well as cultural diversity. But before doing that, it is useful to examine two
special phenomena—or alleged phenomena—
of the contemporary world that have exerted

19

considerable influence on recent discussions of
cultural identity. They can be jointly called—for
want of a better expression—the future of cultural diversity in the globalized world. They
deal with the impact of globalization and the
asymmetric power that goes with it and with the
thesis that there is a persistent tendency for civilizations to clash, which can make the world a
very violent and disruptive place.
GLOBALIZATION’S

ASYMMETRIC POWER ?

An overarching value
must be the need for
participatory decisionmaking on the kind of
society people want to
live in

20

One of the worries that many people have in
contemplating the safeguarding of cultural liberty today concerns the overwhelming influence of Western culture, especially its
“consumerism”, in the globalized world in which
we live. The point is often made, plausibly, that
being free to choose one’s lifestyle is not, in the
present world, just a matter of being allowed to
choose freely. It is also an issue of whether people in more marginalized civilizations are able
to resist the Western influence. This concern certainly deserves attention, given the evident precariousness of local cultures in a world so
dominated by thunderous exposure to Western
influences.
At least two issues are of particular interest
here. First, there is the power and force of market culture in general, which is part and parcel
of the form that economic globalization has increasingly taken. Those who find the values and
priorities of market-related cultures to be vulgar and impoverishing (even many in the West
have this view) tend to find economic globalization itself to be quite objectionable. And yet
often enough, they also see market-based globalization as hard to resist, given the reach and
strength of the market economy and the sheer
volume of resources it can bring to bear on reshaping the world.
The second problem concerns the asymmetry of power between the West and other countries and the likelihood that this asymmetry will
translate into destruction of local cultures (poetry, drama, music, dancing, food habits and so
on). Such a loss, it is plausibly argued, would culturally impoverish non-Western societies. Given
the constant cultural bombardment that tends to
come from the Western metropolis (from fast

food to blast music), there are genuine fears that
native traditions may be overwhelmed by the
fusillade.
These threats are undoubtedly real, and to
a considerable extent they may also be difficult
to escape. The solution can hardly lie in stopping the globalization of trade and exchange,
both because international commerce can bring
economic benefits that many countries value
greatly and because the forces of economic exchange and division of labour are hard to resist
in an interacting world.
A plausible line of response to the problem
of asymmetry can, however, take the form of
strengthening the constructive opportunities that
local cultures have—and can be helped to have—
to protect their own and to resist being outgunned by the forces of cultural invasion. If
foreign imports dominate because of greater
control over the radio waves, television channels
and so on, surely a counteracting policy must involve expanding the facilities available to local
culture to present its own creations, both locally
and beyond. The costs involved in following
that constructive route may not be as forbidding as people might think, since communication
has become so much cheaper in the contemporary world. This would also be a positive response, unlike the temptation, which rears its
head with some frequency, to ban foreign influence through legislation or executive decree.
The constructive possibility of providing
much more support for local cultural activities
would not only help to strengthen them—it
would also allow them to face a more equal
competition. In the pro-freedom perspective
there is much merit in taking that route, rather
than making local cultures prevail simply
through proscribing the competition. It is important to make sure that the baby of cultural
liberty is not thrown away with the bath water
of unequal competition.
The deciding issue, ultimately, has to be
one of democracy. An overarching value must
be the need for participatory decision-making
on the kind of society people want to live in,
based on open discussion, with adequate opportunity for the expression of minority positions. The issue of political inclusion (giving
people the freedom to participate in political

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

choices, rather than being ignored by authoritarian potentates) is particularly relevant here in
the safeguarding of cultural liberty (in the freedom of people to choose their own lifestyles). We
cannot both want democracy and yet rule out
certain choices, on traditionalist grounds, because of their “foreignness” (irrespective of what
people would choose, in an informed and reflective way). The value of democracy has to
resist the banishing of citizens’ freedom of choice
through the fiat of political authorities (or orders
of religious establishments or pronouncements
of grand guardians of “national taste”), no matter how unbecoming those authorities (or establishments or guardians) find the new
predilections to be. This is one field, among
others, in which cultural liberty and political
freedom can be fruitfully viewed together.16
CIVILIZATIONS

AND GLOBAL HISTORY

If fear of globalization is one general concern that
many people express in dealing with cultural liberty, the dread of a “clash of civilizations” (as
Huntington calls it) is another that has received
considerable articulation in recent years. The thesis has many components, but a general concern
seems to be that pluralist and tolerant Western
civilization is now under constant threat from
less lenient and more authoritarian cultures.
Indeed, if we were to assume that people in
non-Western civilizations are constantly tempted
by authoritarian values (and perhaps even by the
lure of violence), then the dread that the world’s
cultural diversity must have grave consequences
would not be hard to understand. But how
sound is the cultural analysis that underlies that
fear? And how reliable is the reading of history
that sustains that cultural analysis? There are reasons to be sceptical of both. Civilizational categories are far from clear-cut, and the simulated
history that goes with the thesis of clashing civilizations exaggerates these contrasts, partly by
neglecting the heterogeneities within each culture, but also by ignoring historical interactions
between the different cultures.
The specific claim that tolerance is a special—
and very nearly unique—feature of Western civilization, extending way back into history, is
particularly hard to sustain. This is not to deny

CULTURAL LIBERTY AND HUMAN DEVELOPMENT

that tolerance and liberty are among the important achievements of modern Europe (despite
some aberrations, such as brutal imperialist rules
over two centuries and the Nazi atrocities six
decades ago). The world indeed has much to
learn from the recent history of Europe and the
Western world, particularly since the period of
European Enlightenment. But to see a unique line
of historical division there—going back through
history—is remarkably fanciful. The history of the
world does not suggest anything like a division
between a long-run history of Western toleration
and that of non-Western despotism.
Political liberty and tolerance in their full
contemporary form are not an old historical
feature in any country or civilization. Plato and
Augustine were no less authoritarian in thinking than were Confucius and Kautilya. There
were, of course, champions of tolerance in classical European thought, but there are plenty of
similar examples in other cultures as well. For
example, Emperor Ashoka’s dedicated championing of religious and other kinds of tolerance
in India in the third century BCE (arguing that
“the sects of other people all deserve reverence
for one reason or another”) is certainly among
the earliest political defences of tolerance anywhere. Similarly, when a later Indian emperor,
Akbar, the Great Moghal, was making comparable pronouncements on religious tolerance
at the end of the 16th century (such as: “no
one should be interfered with on account of religion, and anyone is to be allowed to go over
to a religion that pleases him”), the Inquisition
was in full swing in Europe. To take another illustration, when the Jewish philosopher Maimonides was forced to emigrate from an
intolerant Europe in the 12th century, he found
a tolerant refuge in the Arab world and was
given an honoured and influential position in the
court of Emperor Saladin in Cairo. His tolerant
host was the same Saladin who fought hard for
Islam in the Crusades.
Indeed, the very idea of democracy, in the
form of participatory public reasoning, has appeared in different civilizations at different periods in world history.17 In early seventh century
Japan, the Buddhist Prince Shotoku, regent to
his mother Empress Suiko, introduced a relatively liberal constitution or kempo (known as

The specific claim that
tolerance is a special
feature of Western
civilization, extending way
back into history, is
particularly hard to sustain

21

The building of humane
and just societies
demands adequate
recognition of the
importance of freedoms in
general, which include
cultural liberty

“the constitution of 17 articles”) in 604 CE. In
the spirit of the Magna Carta (signed six centuries later, in 1215 CE), the kempo insisted:
“Decisions on important matters should not be
made by one person alone. They should be discussed with many.” On the subject of tolerance, it says: “Nor let us be resentful when
others differ from us. For all men have hearts,
and each heart has its own leanings. Their right
is our wrong, and our right is their wrong.”18
Examples of championing public discussion and seeking different—and conflicting—
points of view have figured in the history of
other countries in the world, both in the West
and outside it. They continue to be of contemporary relevance in thinking about the feasibility of a tolerant democracy in today’s world.
When India became independent in 1947, the
committee that drafted its constitution, led by
B.R. Ambedkar, had to consider India’s own traditions (including those of political tolerance and
local democracy), in addition to learning from
the gradual emergence of Western democracies over the previous two centuries.
Similarly, Nelson Mandela, in his autobiography, Long Walk to Freedom, describes
how influenced he was, as a young boy, by the
democratic nature of the local meetings that
were held in the regent’s house in Mqhekezweni:
Everyone who wanted to speak did so. It was
democracy in its purest form. There may have been
a hierarchy of importance among the speakers, but
everyone was heard, chief and subject, warrior and
medicine man, shopkeeper and farmer, landowner
and laborer.... The foundation of self-government
was that all men were free to voice their opinions
and equal in their value as citizens.19

The hard lines that have recently been drawn
to give shape to the fear of a clash of civilizations
are especially blind to world history. The
classifications are often based in an extraordinarily crude and extreme historical innocence.
The diversity of traditions within distinct civilizations is effectively ignored, and major global
interventions in science, technology, mathematics and literature over millennia are made to
disappear so as to give credence to a parochial
view of the uniqueness of Western civilization.

22

There is a fundamental methodological
problem in assuming that a partitioning civilization is the uniquely relevant distinction and
must swamp other ways of identifying people.
Other divisions (say, between rich and poor, between members of different classes and occupations, between people of different politics,
between distinct nationalities and places of residence, between language groups and so on) are
all submerged by this allegedly preeminent way
of seeing the differences between people. It is
not enough that those who would foment global
confrontation or local sectarian violence try to
impose a pre-chosen unitary and divisive identity on the people who are recruited as the footsoldiers of political brutality. They are indirectly
aided in that task by the implicit support that
the warriors get from theories of singular categorization of the people of the world.
There is a remarkable neglect of the role of
choice and reasoning in decisions about what
importance to attach to membership in any particular group or any particular identity. By
adopting a unique and allegedly predominant
way of categorizing people, partitioning civilization can materially contribute to conflict in
the world. To deny choice when it does exist is
not only a misunderstanding of what the world
is like. It is also ethical delinquency and a political dereliction of responsibility.
CONCLUSIONS
The building of humane and just societies demands adequate recognition of the importance
of freedoms in general, which include cultural
liberty. This calls for securing and constructively expanding the opportunities that people
have to choose how they would live and to consider alternative lifestyles. Cultural considerations can figure prominently in these choices.
Emphasizing cultural liberty is not exactly the
same as going all out for cultural diversity. It is
certainly true that allowing diversity in cultural
practices can be extremely important, since the
exercise of cultural liberty depends on it. This,
however, is not the same as championing cultural
diversity for its own sake. Much would depend
on how cultural diversity comes about and the
extent to which the people involved can exercise

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

SPECIAL CONTRIBUTION
Human rights embody the fundamental values of human civilizations
People are different, and so are their cultures.
People live in different ways, and civilizations
also differ.

And however different they may be, all cultures
embrace certain common principles:

People speak in a variety of languages.

No culture tolerates the exploitation of human
beings.

People are guided by different religions.

No religion allows the killing of the innocent.

People are born different colours, and many
traditions influence their lives with varying
colours and shades.

No civilization accepts violence or terror.

People dress differently and adapt to their environment in different ways.
People express themselves differently. Music,
literature and art reflect different styles as well.
But despite these differences, all people have one
single common attribute: they are all human
beings—nothing more, nothing less.

Torture is abhorrent to the human conscience.

rights embody the most fundamental values of
human civilizations. The Universal Declaration of
Human Rights is needed universally, applicable
to both East and West. It is compatible with
every faith and religion. Failing to respect our
human rights only undermines our humanity.
Let us not destroy this fundamental truth;
if we do, the weak will have nowhere to turn.

Brutality and cruelty are appalling in every
tradition.
In short, these common principles, which are
shared by all civilizations, reflect our fundamental human rights. These rights are treasured
and cherished by everyone, everywhere.
So cultural relativity should never be used as
a pretext to violate human rights, since these

their freedom. It would be a serious mistake to
regard cultural diversity as valuable no matter
how it is brought about. Indeed, cultural diversity, particularly in the perspective of human development, cannot be evaluated without taking
note of the processes involved and the role of
human freedom in the way things get decided.
The analysis in this chapter leads to some
clear conclusions, pursued in the chapters that follow. First, a greater extent of cultural diversity can
be a consequence of the exercise of cultural liberty by all (including ethnic or sexual or social minorities). When that is the case, there is a strong
argument for celebrating cultural diversity and for
doing what can be done to safeguard it. The applause for diversity, in this reasoning, comes from
the value of cultural liberty—a value that fits
fully with the importance of freedoms in general.
Second, cultural diversity in a society can also
give all the people in that society—irrespective
of their background—the opportunity to enjoy
a wider range of cultural choice. This, too, links
ultimately with cultural liberty, in this case as a
facilitator, rather than (as in the last case) as a
consequence of the exercise of cultural liberty.
Here too cultural diversity should get cheers, in
expanding the cultural range of social life and
thereby enhancing the options that people actually enjoy to choose their ways of living. This
is also a part of a freedom-based defence of
cultural diversity.

CULTURAL LIBERTY AND HUMAN DEVELOPMENT

Shirin Ebadi
2003 Nobel Peace Prize winner

Third, the exercise of cultural liberty may
sometimes lead to a reduction of—rather than
an increase in—cultural diversity, when people
adapt to the lifestyles of others and choose, in
a reasoned way, to go in that direction (unhindered by living mode exclusion). When that
occurs, to oppose cultural liberty on the ground
that it reduces cultural diversity would be a
blunder, since liberty has constitutive—and
intrinsic—importance of its own in a way that
diversity does not.
Related to that issue is the prizing of cultural conservatism, often championed on the
ground that retaining one’s “own” culture is a
move in favour of freedom. But to assume that
a compulsion to retain one’s ancestral and inherited culture must somehow be an exercise
of freedom is a conceptual confusion. That
subject relates also to the role of choice in the
determination of identity. Since all individuals
belong to many groups, have many different
ways of identifying themselves and have to decide how to deal with the correspondingly
different—possibly conflicting—priorities,
there is no way of avoiding choice (even if it is
done implicitly and perhaps imperceptibly).
This does not deny that “discoveries” are frequently made about whether one belongs to one
group or another (and these could be important discoveries), but that does not eliminate the
need for choice.

23

It is particularly important
not to fall into the
confusion of taking
unexamined
traditionalism to be part
of the exercise of
cultural liberty

24

To deny choice when a choice exists is not
only a factual mistake, it can also have grave
moral consequences in a world where identitybased conflicts—and brutalities—are common.
The inclusiveness of a society will depend greatly
on bringing clarity to the role of choice in identity and to the need to “reason before identity”.
Indeed, understanding the responsibility of
choice can help greatly in making sure that the
relevant moral issues related to one’s social existence are adequately addressed.
The importance of freedom links well with
the need for equity in the pursuit of freedom. The
freedoms of different people are involved, and
focusing on freedom requires that attention be
paid to the freedoms of all—and this connects
with considerations of equity. It is important to
keep the issue of equity constantly in view, because of its extensive reach. There is no basic
tension—as is sometimes alleged—between freedom and equity. Indeed, equity can be seen in
terms of equitable advancement of the freedoms of all people (rather than merely in terms
of the distribution of income, or in terms of the
even more limited perspective of “redistribution”
from an ultimately arbitrary starting point). Seen
in this way, it is possible to make consistent use
of both the basic concepts of liberty and equity
in assessing the demands of social inclusion and
the contingent merits of cultural diversity.
A difficult—or allegedly difficult—case may
be considered briefly to illustrate the arguments
that may be invoked. The question has been
asked, with considerable perspicacity: “Is multiculturalism bad for women?”20 That issue relates
to the well discussed fact that continuation of
many of the practices in a traditional maledominated society may go against the interests
and opportunities of women. To argue for retaining them on the ground of the importance of
multiculturalism does not well serve the interests
of women. Extreme cases of this kind of conflict
can involve particular practices (such as bodily
mutilations) that are sanctioned by the rules of
some prevailing cultures but that may be especially harmful to women’s ability to lead their own
lives and to exercise their own freedoms.
In pursuing this question, it is important to
see cultural liberty in a broad enough perspective. In defence of ongoing practices it is

sometimes pointed out that women themselves
typically accept these cultural rules without
protest. But many iniquities in the world continue to survive and prosper by making allies of
the victims, by denying them the opportunity to
consider alternatives and obstructing knowledge of other feasible arrangements in other
communities. So it is particularly important not
to fall into the confusion of taking unexamined
traditionalism to be part of the exercise of cultural liberty. It is necessary to ask whether the
underdogs in society—in this case the women
whose lives may be badly affected by these
practices—have had the opportunity to consider alternatives and have the freedom to know
how people in the rest of the world live. The need
for reasoning and for freedom is central to the
perspective that is being used here.
Putative defences of conservative traditionalism could be—and have been—proposed
on other grounds. Can such practices be defended on the ground of the value of multiculturalism? Can they be championed in the cause
of cultural diversity? The second question is
fairly easy to answer. Cultural diversity is not,
as has already been discussed, a value in itself,
at least not in the human development approach
(with its focus on human freedoms and their equitable advancement). The value of cultural diversity rests on its positive connection—as is
often the case—with cultural liberty. Invoking
the contingent value of cultural diversity in
defence of practices that deny women their
basic freedom to choose would be manifestly
perverse, since the freedom of the women involved is violated, not promoted, through these
arrangements. Nor can equity, in the sense of equity of freedoms, be promoted in this way.
If, however, the expansion of cultural diversity, or any increase of “multiculturalism”, is
taken to be an object of value in itself—no matter what it does to the lives of the people
involved—then we are in a territory whose limitations have already been much discussed in the
human development literature. Even economic
opulence—important as it is—could not be
taken to be valuable in itself and had to be seen
as important only to the extent that it conforms
to what people would value having. In the human
development perspective multiculturalism must

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

be assessed for what it does to the lives and
freedoms of the people involved.
Indeed, seeing the expansion of multiculturalism as an end in itself can easily yield a situation in which the freedoms of individual
members of a community—in this case female
members—are severely violated. This goes deeply
against the importance of human freedom, which
applies to women as well as men, and to the underdogs of a traditional society as well as to its
leading figures and thunderous spokesmen. The
need for equity points to the fundamental difficulties involved in taking the enlargement of
multiculturalism as an end in itself.
As this chapter shows, deprivation of human
freedom can arise from many causes and reflect

CULTURAL LIBERTY AND HUMAN DEVELOPMENT

diverse forms of discrimination, involving cultural as well as political and socio-economic influences on human lives. In the chapters that
follow the different forms of exclusion, and
their implications for human deprivation, are extensively investigated and assessed. Attention is
paid to institutional features as well as values that
profoundly influence human lives.
The practical importance of multiculturalism and cultural diversity figures in these analyses. Their merit, which can of course be very
great, depends on their connections with the
freedoms of the people involved, including equity and evenhandedness in the distribution of
their freedoms. That basic principle is a central
feature of the human development approach.

25

CHAPTER 2

Challenges for cultural liberty

Some of the most socially divisive debates today
are on cultural identity and diversity—in vastly
different contexts, in many different ways. The
debates can be about the choice of official language (Afghanistan’s new Constitution), political representation of ethnic or religious groups
(Sunnis and Shiites in Iraq), relations between
the state and religion (Muslims in France), claims
of indigenous people against mining by multinational corporations (Amazon region of Brazil),
immigration policies (United Kingdom) or naturalization procedures (Germany). Such tensions can also be at the heart of violent conflicts
(Rwanda, Yugoslavia). Globalization adds yet another dimension, as ethnic groups, indigenous
people and nation-states challenge international
agreements on trade and investment on the
grounds that they diminish cultural diversity.
Around the world people are more assertive
in demanding respect for their cultural identities. Often, their demands are for social justice,
for greater political voice. But that is not all. Their
demands are also for recognition and respect
(box 2.1). People care about jobs and schools.
But they also care about whether their history
is acknowledged, their heroes are respected and
their religious celebrations are recognized as
official holidays. And they care about whether
they and their children will live in a society that
is diverse or one in which everyone is expected
to conform to a single dominant culture.
Many states face an urgent challenge in responding to these demands. But responding
can threaten ruling elites who impose their language, religion and ways of life to consolidate
power and control of the state. And many states
fear that recognizing diverse identities gets in the
way of other important objectives: state unity,
economic growth, development, democracy,
peace and stability.
People have been persecuted for their identities for millennia. But suppressing identities is

CHALLENGES FOR CULTURAL LIBERTY

becoming more difficult in today’s world. Political movements for cultural recognition are difficult to suppress without resorting to extreme
repression or violence, strategies that are less feasible in today’s world of instant communication
and strong international human rights networks.
All countries, and the world as a whole, face
the challenges of promoting diversity and expanding the cultural choices of all people.
These are not just challenges for a few “multiethnic states”, for almost no country is homogeneous. The world’s nearly 200 countries
include some 5,000 ethnic groups.1 Two-thirds
of countries have more than one ethnic or religious group making up at least 10% of the
population.2 Many countries have large indigenous populations that were marginalized
by colonization and settlers.

Around the world people
are more assertive in
demanding respect for
their cultural identities

BOX 2.1

Two aspects of cultural exclusion
Cultural liberty is the freedom people have
to choose their identity—to be who they are
and who they want to be—and to live without being excluded from other choices that
are important to them. Cultural liberty is
violated by the failure to respect or recognize the values, institutions and ways of
life of cultural groups and by discrimination and disadvantage based on cultural
identity.
Living mode exclusion
Living mode exclusion occurs when the
state or social custom denigrates or suppresses a group’s culture, including its language, religion or traditional customs or
lifestyles. Needed are policies that give some
form of public recognition, accommodation and support to a group’s culture.
Through such policies of cultural inclusion
members of the group see their cultures in
the symbols and institutions of the state and
in the respect of society.

Participation exclusion
Participation exclusion—social, economic
and political exclusion along ethnic, linguistic or religious lines—refers to discrimination or disadvantage based on cultural identity.
Such exclusions operate through discriminatory policies from the state (such as the denial
of citizenship or of the right to vote or run for
office), past discrimination that has not been
remedied (lower performance in education)
or social practice (such as less access in the
media to a cultural group’s point of view, or
discrimination in job interviews). Needed are
approaches that integrate multicultural policies with human development strategies.
Specific remedies required
There is much reinforcement between living mode exclusion and social, economic and
political exclusion, and some of their causes
(viewing some cultures as “backward”).
Each type of exclusion requires its own
analysis and remedies.

Source: Chapter 1 and Kymlicka 2004.

27

Figure

Most countries are
culturally diverse

2.1

Number of countries by share of
ethnic or religious groups, 2003
120

110

100

80

60

42
40

30
20

0

Less than
10%

10–25%

More than
25%

The pace of international migration has
quickened, with startling effects on some cities.
In Toronto 44% of the population was born outside of Canada.3 One way or another every
country is a multicultural society—containing
ethnic, religious, linguistic and racial groups
that have common bonds to a heritage, culture,
values and way of life.
In the agenda for human development in the
21st century, expanding cultural liberty is an important, and often neglected, challenge (box
2.2). This chapter explores the nature of that
challenge.
CULTURAL LIBERTY—AN UNCHARTED
DIMENSION OF HUMAN DEVELOPMENT

Share of world population, 2003
Less than 10% of population
10–25% of population
More than 25% of population

30%
52%
17%

Note: Percentages refer to all ethnic or religious
groups except the largest.
Source: CIA 2003.

Human development is about people. It is about
enlarging the choices people have to do and be
what they value in life. Much work on human
development—including the human development index and previous Human Development Reports—has focused on greater access
to health and education, on pro-poor economic
growth and on democratization as the main
challenges. But as chapter 1 explains, people
must also be free to be who they are and to

choose their cultural identity accordingly—as a
Thai, a Quaker, a Wolof speaker, a South
African of Indian descent—and to enjoy the
respect of others and live in dignity. They must
also be free to make cultural choices without
penalty, without being excluded from other
choices—for jobs, schooling, housing, healthcare, political voice and many other opportunities critical to human well-being. They must
be allowed to choose multiple identities—as
Thai and Muslim, for example, or as Wolof
and Senegalese.
The core argument of this Report is that societies should embrace, not suppress, such multiple and complementary identities. The
challenge for policy-makers in the 21st century
is to broaden choices—so that people need not
renounce their identities to have access to the
full range of social and economic opportunities.
DIVERSE

FORMS AND ORIGINS OF CLAIMS

FOR CULTURAL LIBERTY

Throughout history, in all regions of the world,
cultural identities have been suppressed. Conquerors, colonizers, despots and democratically
elected governments alike have tried to impose

BOX 2.2

Defining cultural rights lags behind defining civil, political, economic and social rights—why?
Of the five categories of human rights—civil, cultural, economic, social and political—cultural
rights have received the least attention. The firstever resolution on cultural rights adopted by
the Commission on Human Rights was in 2002,
on “Promotion of the enjoyment of the cultural
rights of everyone and respect for different cultural identities”.
This neglect has its roots in the heated debates that arose during the drafting of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. At issue
was whether cultural rights should explicitly
recognize minority rights. Canada, most Latin
American countries and the United States argued against minority rights, while the Eastern
bloc countries and India argued for them. In the
end, minority rights were not recognized in the
final wording. It was not until 1966 that the
International Covenant on Civil and Political
Rights recognized that people belonging to ethnic, linguistic or religious minorities “shall not
be denied the right, in community with other

members of their group, to enjoy their culture,
to profess and practice their religion, or to use
their own language”.
These reservations reflect the unease that
surrounds the notion of cultural rights:
• Cultural rights can provoke arguments about
cultural relativism, arguments that use culture to defend violations of human rights.
• Cultural rights are difficult to operationalize
because they are tied up with the concept of
culture, which is a moving target.
• Cultural rights, according to some, are a “luxury”, to be addressed once the other rights
have been achieved.
• Cultural rights cannot be addressed without
confronting the cultural “wrongs” that exist
in societies. These are traditions and practices
that violate human rights. States are cautious
about recognizing such wrongs.
• Cultural rights evoke the scary spectrum of
group identities and group rights that some
people fear threaten the nation-state.

Some human rights and political philosophy
theorists argue that ensuring the civil and political rights of individuals—such as freedom of
worship, speech and association—is sufficient to
allow individuals to freely pursue their cultural
beliefs and practices.
Though slow to start, the work of human
rights bodies has made important strides in
clarifying the elements of human rights to participate in cultural life, including equality and
non-discrimination, freedom from interference
in the enjoyment of cultural life and the freedom to create and contribute to it, freedom to
choose in which culture and which cultural life
to participate, freedom to disseminate, freedom to cooperate internationally and freedom
to participate in the definition and implementation of policies on culture. Overriding all
these elements is the fundamental principle
that cultural rights are an indivisible part of
human rights, although not every custom or
practice is a right.

Sources: Stamatopoulou 2002; Kymlicka 2004; and Arizpe 2004.

28

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

CHALLENGES FOR CULTURAL LIBERTY

Indigenous people can
expect a shorter life

Figure

2.2

Gap in life expectancy in selected
developing countries, 1997–2000
Indigenous population
Non-indigenous population
Gap in life expectancy
Years

For some groups discrimination is wider
spread. The Roma of Eastern Europe have unemployment rates averaging 45% and rising above
60% in some areas. They also suffer from substandard health and living conditions.5 Only one
in three Roma children in Serbia and Montenegro has ever attended primary school, and no
more than 0.4% of Serbian Roma have a university education.6 Often perceived as lazy, unclean,
uneducated and petty thieves, Roma disproportionately suffer violent attacks in countries such
as Bulgaria, the Czech Republic and Slovakia.7
Indigenous people. Around 300 million
people belong to the world’s indigenous groups,8
representing some 4,000 languages in more than
70 countries.9 Latin America’s 50 million indigenous people make up 11% of the region’s
population. Indigenous people are not always in
the minority.10 In Bolivia and Guatemala indigenous people make up more than half the
population.11
These groups are heirs to unique cultures and
unique ways of relating to other people and the
environment. They maintain political, cultural
and economic characteristics distinct from mainstream society. In Australasia, the Americas and
elsewhere the sound of foreign feet on indigenous
soil was too often a death knell. Military conquest,
ecological destruction, forced labour and lethal
diseases reduced indigenous populations in the
Americas and Australia by as much as 95%.12 In
Australia alone some 500 languages have been lost
since the arrival of Europeans.13
For those who remain, the struggle continues. The world’s indigenous people share many
challenges, such as poverty and poor health (figure 2.2) and education. While many culturally
identifiable groups face inequalities in these
areas, indigenous people share some distinct
problems. Often the lands they use for productive purposes and to maintain historical and
spiritual links are not secure and so are being
taken over for logging, mining, tourism and
infrastructure. From occupying most of the
earth’s ecosystems two centuries ago indigenous
people today have the legal right to use about 6%
of the earth’s territory. And in many cases the
rights are partial or qualified.14 In most SouthEast Asian countries, for example, there are no
laws granting indigenous people the right to

80

60

13

10

6

40

20

0

Guatemala Panama

Mexico

Source: During 1993 (share of indigenous peoples);
WHO 2001 (Guatemala); UNDP 2002b
(Panama); Mexico, Ministry of Health 2004
(Mexico).

Gap in life expectancy in selected
industrial countries, 1997–2000
Indigenous population (males)
National average (males)
Gap in life expectancy
Years

a particular language, religion or way of life on
the people under their rule. In some places nonfavoured cultures have been labelled “inferior”
or “backward”. In others, such as apartheid
South Africa, rulers sought to keep people separated, in part by denying some groups the
same rights of citizenship and participation as
others enjoyed. Worst of all are the places that
have tried to obliterate groups through genocide,
such as in Nazi Germany and Rwanda.
The result is a legacy of widespread cultural exclusion, both living mode exclusion and
exclusion in political, social and economic participation along ethnic, linguistic or religious
lines (participation exclusion). This Report explores such exclusions in three categories: minorities in multi-ethnic states, indigenous people
and migrants.
Minorities in multi-ethnic states. More
than 150 countries have significant minority
ethnic or religious groups, and only 30 countries
do not have a religious or ethnic minority that
constitutes at least 10% of the population (figure 2.1). An example is the ethnic groups in former colonial states, especially in Africa, where
boundaries did not coincide with ethnic identities, creating highly diverse states. In most of
these groups members share a common history
or at least perceive a shared experience.
Not all these groups are discriminated
against or disadvantaged, and the situations
they face vary widely. African Americans have
twice the unemployment rate of their white
counterparts and nearly three times the infant
mortality rate (see figure 3.4 in chapter 3). They
are also underrepresented politically in upper
and lower houses of legislatures. But civil rights
struggles have led to greater respect for African
American culture and affirmation of the African
American identity as a source of pride. Other
minorities may be economically privileged but
culturally or politically sidelined. In Indonesia
the ethnic Chinese constitute 3% of the population but control about 70% of the private
economy.4 Despite their economic power they
face restrictions on Chinese-language education and publishing. In many countries in SouthEast Asia residents of Chinese descent are
considered “foreigners” even when they have
lived there for generations.

80

11
20

17

60

40

20

0

Australia

Canada

New
Zealand

Note: Data refer to the most recent year available
during the period specified.
Source: Australian Bureau of Statistics 2004
(Australia); Justiniano and Litchﬁeld 2003
(Canada); WHO 2001 (New Zealand).

29

Europe’s non-European
migrant population has
increased signiﬁcantly...

Figure

2.3

Thousands

Foreign-born population from
outside Europe
1500

Germany
1200

900

Italy
600

Netherlands
300

Sweden
0
1981

2000

... and migrants are coming
from more places

Number of groups

Migrant groups in Sweden with
populations greater than 1,000
40

33
30

20

15

10

0
1980

2002

Source: Wanner 2002; Statistics Sweden 2004.

30

their land. And not only their land is being coveted and taken—so is their knowledge. Multinational corporations have discovered its
commercial potential, and the race is on to patent,
privatize and appropriate.
Migrants. The number of international
migrants—defined as people living outside their
country of birth—more than doubled since the
mid-1970s—to about 175 million.15 The numbers
have increased most dramatically in the richest
countries. The number of migrants to the European Union from outside Europe is up 75%
since 1980.16 Migrants are coming from a wider
range of countries, too, so that more people of
different cultures are living together. In London
children in state schools speak some 300 different languages.17 And in Sweden migrants come
from twice as many countries as they did in 1980
(see figure 2.3 and feature 5.1 in chapter 5).18
While the inflow is fastest in the richest
countries, migration is an issue in all regions.
People have moved from poorer to more prosperous developing countries (such as the migration into the oil-rich countries in the 1970s
and 1980s) and from countries experiencing
political upheaval or persecution to neighbouring countries (see figure 5.2 in chapter 5).
As a result developing countries make up 10 of
the 15 countries with the highest proportion of
foreign-born residents, including the top three
(United Arab Emirates, Kuwait and Jordan).19
Saudi Arabia has the fifth largest foreign-born
population, at more than 5 million.20
In both richer and poorer countries one of the
greatest challenges for migrants is their legal status in the receiving country. For immigrants there
is a sea of gray between full citizenship and illegal status. This uncertainty affects their civic participation, such as receiving health and education
services, being able to drive legally and being
able to enter the workforce without being subjected to discrimination. Often immigrants’ uncertain legal status culminates in their having no
political voice and being vulnerable to human
rights abuses. Their uncertain status also puts
recognition of their cultural identity in jeopardy.
Immigrants, particularly those deemed illegitimate, can face severe restrictions on building
houses of worship, celebrating holidays and
wearing their traditional or religious clothing or

symbols. In the United Kingdom, for example,
69% of Muslims surveyed felt that the rest of society did not regard them as an integral part of it.21
CULTURAL

EXCLUSION IS WIDESPREAD

In many areas of human development much
work has been done to document performance
and the nature and the size of the problems to
be overcome. Measurement techniques, developed through decades of research and established traditions in data collection, provide
numerical evidence: 1.2 billion people survive
on less than $1 a day,22 828 million go to bed
hungry,23 114 million children of primary school
age are not in school,24 11 million children die
each year of preventable causes,25 and 1.8 billion people live in countries lacking the key elements of formal democracy.26
Capturing living mode exclusion is intrinsically more difficult than capturing social, economic and political exclusion. Living mode
exclusion happens when the culture of a group—
whether ethnic, linguistic or religious—is denied
recognition and respect. It is often reflected in
a culture being considered “inferior” or in its
practices not being recognized. The most extreme forms of exclusion result from state policies to suppress or prohibit the use of languages
or religious or other important practices such as
dress that are visible markers of identity—for example, turbans worn by Sikhs or the headscarf
worn by some Muslim women.
State policies of living mode exclusion include official language laws—where a national
language must be used in the bureaucracy,
courts, public services and education—and restrictions on religious freedoms. Policies of exclusion also include elevating state symbols
celebrating the history and culture of dominant
groups through national holidays and the naming of streets and buildings while ignoring the
history and culture of other groups.27
Charting living mode exclusion is difficult
(box 2.3). Few national or international statistical agencies track such exclusion. As with data on
gender and the environment—also once novel to
statistical offices—this must change. But the challenges are enormous, and not just the technical
aspects. Language, religion, history, clothing,

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

customs, ceremonies and cuisine are just some of
the areas that define cultural identity. Just as
there are myriad ways to understand “culture”,
there are myriad ways to curtail cultural liberty
and to fail to recognize cultural identities. A comprehensive understanding of culture and cultural
liberty will always be out of statistical reach.
But attempts can be made to gain a rough
idea of the scope of the problem based on some
key cultural markers such as religion, language
and ceremonial practices. The Minorities at
Risk data set attempts to capture the exclusion
of people and groups on the basis of cultural
identity (see feature 2.1). It estimates that almost
900 million people—around one of seven—
belong to groups that are discriminated against
or disadvantaged as a result of their identity, facing cultural, economic or political exclusion.

Of course, these categories often overlap, and
many people in these groups face some combination of these exclusions. About 518 million of
them belong to groups that are estimated to
face living mode exclusion, including restrictions on religion, language, ceremonies and appearance (see figure 1 in feature 2.1).
Recognition of religion. History is full of
examples of religious persecution. In the 14th
century BCE Egyptian Pharaoh Akhenaten proclaimed that there was no god but Ra and
ordered references to all other gods to be expunged, forbidding even the use of the plural
form of the word god.28 The infamous Spanish
Inquisition of the 15th century sought to discover
and punish Jews and Moors who had publicly
converted to Christianity under duress but continued practicing their true beliefs. In mid-19th

BOX 2.3

Measuring cultural liberty
To date, cultural statistics have dealt mainly with
the production and consumption of “cultural
goods”—film, books and theatre. But can cultural
liberty—and its opposites, living mode exclusion
and social, economic and political exclusion
along ethnic, linguistic or religious lines—be
measured?
Measuring living mode exclusion
Language, religion, history, clothing, customs,
ceremonies, cuisine and values, among others,
interact to define cultural identity. All of these ways
to understand culture provide ways to exclude cultural identities such as language policies, treatment
of different religions, school curricula and attitudes
within society. Information can be collected on
these issues, but rarely is. Beyond the simple data
availability problems are the analytical challenges
of converting information into statistically useful
numbers. One possible approach is qualitative
assessments—expert assessments of the severity
of the situation—on issues that are important to
many cultural identities, such as language and
religion. This Report, for example, includes information from the Minorities at Risk data set
of the University of Maryland (see feature 2.1),
which does not capture the whole detail or scope
of cultural exclusions but can provide useful evidence for understanding the problem.
Measuring participation exclusion
Measurement of social, economic and to a lesser
extent political exclusions along ethnic, linguistic

and religious lines is more advanced. Often lacking, however, is a breakdown by culturally identified groups. Some data collection does include
questions on religious, ethnic and linguistic identity and some post-censal surveys focus specifically
on these cultural groups, but they could be much
more comprehensive and comparable. An important issue is allowing people to register multiple identities. Political exclusion is more difficult
to capture. There are some hard data, such as representation in parliament and voter participation
(although they could be more disaggregated),
but other issues, such as freedom of expression,
movement and organization, are more difficult to
capture and require qualitative approaches.
Next steps
More work can be done at the country level,
where understanding of the issues may be greater.
This could involve improved data monitoring and
collection—such as including questions on identities in survey questionnaires and post-censal surveys targeted at specific cultural groups—as well
as qualitative assessments.
At the international level leadership by an international statistical body could bring sharper
focus to what is a formidable and urgent task. For
example, the UNESCO Institute of Statistics has
already done much work in measuring culture.
The coordinating institution could advocate for
the collection of information, such as the inclusion in national surveys of questions on cultural
identity, and could be the lead depository for

these data. In more qualitative areas of cultural and
political exclusions enormous benefits could accrue from having an international institution take
the lead on comprehensive approaches to these
complex issues at the country level.
No index of cultural liberty
There are demands not only to produce statistics on issues of culture but to go farther and produce a cultural liberty index. A lesson of the
human development index and other composite indicators is that such measures need to be
grounded in a conceptual framework and must
be policy relevant as well as measurable and
comparable.
As this Report acknowledges, data on issues of cultural liberty are extremely limited.
And the conceptual and methodological challenges are enormous for capturing such issues as
discriminatory policy and social practice and
the extent of historical neglect that cultural
groups face.
And the problem is more than empirical.
Unlike some other aspects of human development, such as health and education, where many
countries face common challenges, the challenges in dealing with cultural exclusion are
more diverse. It will never be fully possible to
compare homogeneous Japan with diverse India,
or how Europe is dealing with issues posed by
immigration with how Latin America is meeting the demands of indigenous people for land
and self-rule.

Sources: Goldstone 1998; Fukuda-Parr 2001; Kymlicka 2004; and Valdés 2002.

CHALLENGES FOR CULTURAL LIBERTY

31

Feature 2.1 The Minorities at Risk data set—quantifying cultural exclusion

What is a minority at risk?
The project deals with “communal groups” whose
members share a “distinctive and enduring collective identity” based on shared history, religion,
language, ethnicity or other factors. Group identity
is not seen as rigid, unchanging or inextricably
linked to a particular feature of the group, but as
a perception shared by the group or society.
While the project tracks many variables for
each group, of particular interest for this Report
are the variables on cultural (living mode), political and socio-economic discrimination and disadvantage. Data used for this report are current
through 2000 and are derived from the project’s
most recent global survey, completed in 2002.
• Cultural (living mode) discrimination and
disadvantage were assessed according to
discriminatory policy and practice in several
fields: restrictions on religion (affecting
groups with some 359 million members); on
the use of language, including for instruction
(334 million); on ceremonies (305 million),
appearance and family life (144 million); and
on cultural organizations. For each category
the project assessed restrictions giving a value
from zero (no restrictions) to three (activities
sharply restricted). The scores were summed
to give a broad overview of cultural restrictions. The project found that 129 groups
with around 518 million people face at least
some of these restrictions (figure 1).
• Political discrimination and disadvantage
were graded on a five-point scale. Zero means
no discrimination, and one signifies a situation
in which public policies are actively trying to
remedy historical patterns of discrimination.
Two refers to situations where there are historical patterns of discrimination, but no

Figure

Millions of people

1000

832
750

800

600

Millions of people

Discrimination and disadvantage of culturally identified groups can be
cultural, political and economic—with considerable overlap

1

1000

891

800

600

518

400

400

200

200

0

Living mode
exclusion
Participation
exclusion

0

Living mode
exclusion

Economic
exclusion

Political
exclusion

There is considerable overlap
in types of cultural exclusion

Participation exclusion

remedial public policy. Three refers to exclusion based on prevailing social practice without remedial public policy. And four refers to
cases in which public policy actively discriminates against a group. There were also detailed assessments of discrimination in key
political rights: freedom of expression, freedom
of movement, rights in judicial proceedings,
freedom to organize, right to vote and access
to the police and military, civil service and
higher office. For the last case, the absence of
minorities in these fields is not enough to signal discrimination. There needs to be evidence
of discriminatory policy or governmental practice. According to the project 191 groups, with
around 832 million people, were considered to
be discriminated against politically (figure 2).
• Economic discrimination and disadvantage
were also graded on a four-point scale. For the
189 groups with about 750 million people
that faced economic discrimination, zero refers
to the case where public policy aims to reduce
Figure

Political and economic exclusion
have different causes

2
Millions of people

The Minorities at Risk data set, created by researchers at the University of Maryland’s Center
for International Development and Conflict Management, collects data on groups that suffer discrimination and disadvantage and that organize
politically on the basis of their group identity. Discrimination and disadvantage include exclusion
through public policy and through social practice, both current and the lingering effects of
historical patterns of discrimination.
These data track a group’s status relative to
that of the majority. If the minority groups are not
worse off than others in the country, their situation is not reflected in the data. While this may miss
many people living in countries where cultural freedom is restricted for all, focusing on discrimination is at the heart of this Report—capturing the
different treatment of cultural groups in society
and the suppression of cultural identities.

1000

832 million
750 million

800

600

406

Historic
neglect

379

Discriminating
social practice

303

400

308
200

0

Discriminating
68
public policy
Political
Economic
exclusion
exclusion

118

disadvantages, for example, through affirmative action. Four refers to the case where both
policies and prevailing social practice actively
discriminate against the group.
The data from the Minorities at Risk data set
can be used to reveal a good deal about the living
mode and participation exclusions faced by members of culturally identified groups, showing not
only how extensive these exclusions are but also
how frequently they overlap (see figure 1). The data
set can also reveal some specific aspects of the living mode exclusion that some minorities face, as
well as the varying causes—from discrimination by
the state to historic neglect of cultural groups that
has not been remedied (see figure 2).
Caveats
The data set is a pioneering effort to measure the
conditions that minority groups experience and the
policies affecting them. Subjective data capture aspects of the traits and challenges of groups not
available through other means. The Minorities at
Risk Project consults multiple sources—including
journalistic accounts, international organization reports, human rights reports, government accounts
and expert opinion—when scoring groups on
their various characteristics. Every effort is made
to ensure consistent coding across cases and to
minimize the dangers of ideological bias. Additional information on the project is available
online at www.cidcm.umd.edu/inscr/mar.
Data updated through 2003 will be available by
the end of 2004.
This Report uses the data carefully, to give
a broad overview of the immense challenges of
cultural discrimination, not as an attempt to
rank or evaluate specific countries for their policies. Used in that way, the data set is a useful tool
and a great step forward in measurement.
Sources: Gurr 1993, 2000; MAR 2003; Kymlicka 2004.

32

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

century Korea several hundred Christians were
killed for their beliefs. And non-Catholic Christian denominations were not recognized in Italy
until 1984 and in Spain until 1992.29
In some countries religious restrictions can
affect everyone; in others they focus on people
with certain beliefs. The Minorities at Risk data
set found that some 359 million people (of the
518 million who belong to groups that face some
form of cultural exclusion) are disadvantaged
or discriminated against relative to others in the
state in following their beliefs (see feature 2.1).
In many cases the religious activities of groups
discriminated against are closely controlled. For
example, religious activities and organizations of
the 80% Muslim population of Uzbekistan are
banned unless the group is registered, allowing
the state to exert close control over religion. In
other instances discrimination against religion is
more active.30 Since 1997 Turkmenistan has
officially allowed religious activities for only two
religious denominations—Sunni Islam and Orthodox Christianity. All other religions have been
severely persecuted, including Jehovah’s Witnesses, Pentecostals, Baptists, Adventists and
Hare Krishnas, and the Shiite community has
been denied registration. However, registration
requirements were formally lifted by the president
in early 2004.31 In Iran the Baha’i community—
the largest religious minority, with 300,000
members—is not recognized in the Constitution,
which essentially considers them “non-persons”.32
These are just three examples. Not only is
the issue widespread and a direct concern to cultural liberty and human development. It is contentious and emotive. Of the many unmet claims
of current political movements, the claim for religious freedom is often central.
Language recognition. Language is often a
key element of an individual’s cultural identity.
Limitations on people’s ability to use their
mother tongue—and limited facility in speaking
the dominant or official national language—
can exclude people from education, political
life and access to justice. There is no more powerful means of “encouraging” individuals to assimilate to a dominant culture than having the
economic, social and political returns stacked
against their mother tongue. Such assimilation
is not freely chosen if the choice is between

CHALLENGES FOR CULTURAL LIBERTY

one’s mother tongue and one’s future. In 19th
century Belgium, for example, the Flemish who
strived for upward mobility had little choice
but to learn French—the sole official language—
and in time many abandoned their ancestral
language altogether.33 These pressures have not
gone away in other countries: the indigenous
people of Guatemala are much more likely to
prosper speaking Spanish.
An indication of the resulting assimilation
is the death of the world’s languages. Of the estimated 10,000 languages that have existed over
time, only about 6,000 are spoken today.34 And
the number is projected to drop by 50–90%
over the next 100 years.35
The challenges are greatest where linguistic
diversity is greatest. Sub-Saharan Africa has
more than 2,500 languages (although, as chapter
3 shows, many of these languages share commonalities), but the ability of many people to use
their language in education and in dealings with
the state is particularly limited. In more than 30
countries in the region—with 518 million people, 80% of the region’s total—the official language is different from the one most commonly
used.36 Only 13% of the children who receive
primary education do so in their mother tongue
(figure 2.4).
Does a lack of education in one’s mother
tongue stall development? Research suggests
that the answer might be yes. In the United
States children educated in their mother tongue
for the first six years of school perform much better than those immediately immersed in English.
And there is every reason to believe that the
process of learning would follow a similar pattern in developing countries (chapter 3).37
While the ability to use one’s mother tongue
in public as well as private life is important, this
does not make the use of multiple languages in
government, the courts and education easy or
practical. Chapter 3 looks in detail at the costs
and benefits states face in their language policy.
Other aspects of living mode exclusion.
Language and religion are often important parts
of an individual’s cultural identity, but there
are many ways different cultures can be respected and recognized. According to the
Minorities at Risk data set, 60% of people who
face cultural discrimination are restricted in

There is no more powerful
means of “encouraging”
individuals to assimilate
to a dominant culture
than having the economic,
social and political returns
stacked against their
mother tongue

33

Figure

2.4

Many lack access to primary education in their mother tongue

Region or group

Number of
spoken languages

Sub-Saharan Africa

2,632

East Asia and the Pacific

2,815

South Asia

811

Central and Eastern Europe
and the CIS

625

High-income OECD

1,299

Latin America and the
Caribbean

1,086

Population with access to education
in mother tongue in 2000
13%

Total population
(millions)
641

62%

1,918

66%

1,480
409

74%
87%
91%

912
530

Source: SIL International 2004b.

performing ceremonies. A further 25% face restrictions in the clothes they wear and how they
can appear in public, including many indigenous
people in Latin America and the Roma in parts
of Eastern Europe.38
Also important is the way the state recognizes and respects the history of different cultural groups within its borders. This is not an
easy matter on which to collect data, particularly
by region or city. One way of assessing how diverse groups are recognized and accepted is by
the way national holidays celebrate key moments in the history or religion of cultural groups
in a country or the way streets are named.
In the United States most national holidays
are non-denominational. In India central government employees have 17 holidays, 14 of
which celebrate the diversity of its religions (figure 2.5). But in France 6 of 11 national holidays
are of religious origin, all Christian, and 5 are
non-denominational although almost 1 in 13
French citizens is Muslim.
POLITICAL,

ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL

EXCLUSION BASED ON CULTURAL IDENTITY

Facing restrictions in expressing one’s identity
(living mode exclusion) is only part of the
challenge for cultural liberty. Many groups, because of their cultural identities, face discrimination or disadvantage in other aspects of human
development. More than 750 million people
are estimated to belong to groups that are disadvantaged or discriminated against in economic or political life (see feature 2.1).

34

Political participation. The limits of political participation are obvious in dictatorships or
one-party states. But inequalities in political
participation can be widespread even in established democracies. Political processes can be
rigged or restricted in many ways to create obstacles to members of certain ethnic, linguistic
and religious groups. The Minorities at Risk
data set estimates that more than 300 million
people belong to groups that face restrictions on
access to higher office relative to others in the
state as a result of their identity. Just under 300
million belong to groups that have restricted access to the civil service. Some 250 million belong
to groups that do not have equal rights to organize. About 280 million belong to groups that
do not enjoy equal freedom of expression. And
83 million belong to groups that do not have
equal voting rights.39
Denial of citizenship is one of the most direct ways of excluding groups of people from the
political process. More than 300,000 people of
the “hill tribe” minority in Thailand have been
denied nationality and the rights and privileges
afforded to full citizens, and Myanmar has denied
citizenship to more than 250,000 Rohingya Muslims who had previously fled the country because of persecution. Despite a growing
parliamentary lobby Kuwait continues to deny
citizenship to more than 100,000 Bidun, many of
whom have lived in the country for generations.40
Ensuring equality at all stages of the political process is vital for preventing discrimination
against culturally identified groups, but it is difficult to assess. Looking at outcomes, which are
easier to define and measure, can be more revealing. Of high-income OECD countries with
data, only in the Netherlands is the proportion
of ethnic minorities in parliament similar to
their share in the population. The United States
comes in second and Belgium third (table 2.1).
The problem is more widespread, of course.
In Brazil only 2 of the 33 cabinet members are
Afro-Brazilian, even though they make up almost half the population.41 In Kenya the number of Kikuyu cabinet members dropped from
31% in 1979 to 3% in 1998, even though their
share of the population remained steady at around
20%.42 The situation changed again in the 2003
elections. In Fiji ethnic Fijians occupied 19 of 21

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

Figure

2.5

National holidays are important ways to recognize—or ignore—cultural identities
Religions reflected in national holidays, 2003

France
Religious
groups

Number
of
holidays

Christian

6

Non-denom

India
Population
share
Christian

5
Rest

Religious
groups

Number
of
holidays

Hindu

5

Muslim

4

Non-denom
Buddhist
Jain
Sikh
Christian

3

United States
Population
share

Number
of
holidays

Christian

1

Non-denom

9

Hindu

3
2

Religious
groups

Population
share
Christian

Rest

Rest

Source: National holidays: France 2004; India, Ministry of Personnel 2004; Ofﬁce of Personnel Management 2003; religious populations: India, Office of the Registrar General 2004; France and United States, CIA 2003.

cabinet seats in 2001 although they make up
just half the population.43 In Trinidad and Tobago citizens of Indian descent (especially Hindus) were essentially excluded from cabinet
positions from 1961 to 1986 (the situation has improved since then).44
The Minorities at Risk data set estimates
that more than 800 million people are part of
more than 200 culturally identified groups that
face political disadvantage or discrimination
based on ethnic, linguistic or religious identities,45 with around 130 million of them facing
directly discriminatory public policy. The rest
are discriminated against because of social customs in the country or the lingering effects of
historic discrimination (see feature 2.1).
Remedying this is vital. Politics is power. Too
often inequalities in political participation are
at the heart of the unresolved claims of cultural
groups, which are discussed in the rest of this
Report.
Health, education and income. Rarely are
levels of human development—or its progress—
spread evenly in a country. Certain religious,
ethnic and linguistic groups are too often left behind (box 2.4). These pockets of poverty matter
in their own right. But inequalities along cultural
lines can be a key source of tension in society.
Few states collect information on life expectancy, infant mortality, literacy and school enrolment by ethnic, linguistic and religious group,
even though population censuses can be an effective means for collecting such information.
Available data show consistent patterns of
inequality. According to the Minorities at Risk

CHALLENGES FOR CULTURAL LIBERTY

TABLE 2.1

Political representation of ethnic minorities in selected OECD parliaments
Ethnic minorities in parliaments a
Country
(year of last election with data)
Netherlands (2003)
United States (2002)
Belgium (1999)
Canada (2000)
United Kingdom (2001)
New Zealand (1999)
Denmark (2001)
Australia (2001)
Germany (2002)
France (2002)
Switzerland (1999)

Number in
lower house/
total

Share in
lower house
(%)

Share in
population
(%)

Ratio in house
to ratio in
population

13/150
69/440
6/150
12/301
12/659
2/120
2/179
1/150
5/603
0/577
0/200

8.7
15.7
4.0
4.3
1.8
1.7
1.1
0.7
0.8
0.0
0.0

9.0
28.1
10.0
13.4
8.7
10.9
5.8
6.0
8.5
8.0
6.0

1.0
0.6
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.1
0.0
0.0

a. Refers to visible ethnic minorities based on census or academic reports. Non-visible immigrants (of European descent) are
not included. The share of ethnic minorities is likely to be lower than the reported figure because reports include citizens and
non-citizens and ethnic minority groups tend to be disproportionately young compared to the majority population. Does not
include aboriginals or members of dominant linguistic or national minority groups.
Source: Bird 2003.

data set, around 750 million people in the world
belong to groups that face socio-economic discrimination or disadvantage because of their cultural identities. Many groups face both kinds of
discrimination (see feature 2.1). For some
68 million of them this is a result of direct government policies of discrimination. But the
more common causes are discriminatory social
practices or unremedied neglect.
Around the globe people with different
cultural identities live side by side, but often in
different worlds. Black South Africans still
earn about a fifth of the incomes of whites.46
Romas in the Czech Republic, Hungary and
Slovakia believe that their ethnicity is the main
reason they cannot find a job.47 Black men and
women in São Paolo, Brazil, have half the
salaries of whites.48 In Guatemala there are

35

clear overlaps between indigenous groups and
social exclusion (map 2.1).
The same patterns are found in health and
education. Life expectancies are consistently
lower for indigenous people than for nonindigenous people (see figure 2.2). The Dalit

population of Nepal has a life expectancy almost
20 years less than the national average.49 Of
Roma children in Serbia and Montenegro 30%
have never attended primary school, and one in
five of those who do attend will drop out.50 In
South Africa almost a quarter of the black population has had no schooling.51

BOX 2.4

The human development index: capturing inequalities across groups
Large disparities exist
between cultural groups
within countries 2000
Life expectancy at birth (years)
Adult literacy rate
Income per capita
Country average

Nepal Dalit population
Years 0

20

40

60

80

%0

100

US$ 0

250

Romania Roma
Years 0

20

40

60

80

%0

100

PPP US$ 0

2000 4000 6000 8000

HDI
Romanian average
Roma

.778
.570

Namibia
German
Afrikaans
English
Oshiwambo
Rukavango
San
Years 30

40

50

60

70

German
English
Afrikaans
Oshiwambo
Rukavango
San
%0

100

German
English
Afrikaans
Oshiwambo
Rukavango
San
N$ 0

1000 2000 3000 4000

HDI
German
English
Afrikaans
Oshiwambo
Namibian average
Rukavango
San

.960
.895
.885
.641
.607
.585
.326

The human development index has become an invaluable tool for capturing
human development and a country’s development performance—roughly—in one
number.
One of the index’s most effective uses
is in comparing the performance of neighbouring or similar countries, creating a
healthy sense of competition. While creating a similar index for cultural liberty (see
box 2.3) or including cultural liberty in the
human development index is not possible,
disaggregating the human development
index by ethnic, linguistic or religious groups
can shed some light on exclusion in health,
education and income. This is rarely done,
however.
In the rare cases when the human development index is calculated by cultural
group, a revealing picture often emerges.
The Roma in Romania, for example, have
a human development index well below
the Romanian average (see figure). Romania is ranked 72 in the human development index, but its Roma population would
rank 128.
Namibia is the only country to have
calculated a human development index by
linguistic group. Again, the differences are
staggering. The German-speaking population would finish comfortably ahead of Norway at the top of the rankings, with the
English and Afrikaans speakers not far behind. San speakers would come 174 places
below, with speakers of Tswana, Otjiherero,
Oshiwambo, Rukavango, Caprivi-Lozi and
Nama-Damara falling in between.
These examples show the huge challenges. Spotlighting these challenges is the
first step in solving them. Governments
are often reluctant to collect and disseminate this sort of information. Where data
are available, they should be considered
an important first step, not a damning
revelation.

Source: Sen 2004b; UNDP 2000b.

36

PROMOTING CULTURAL LIBERTY REQUIRES
RECOGNIZING DIFFERENCES IN IDENTITY

Living mode exclusion and participation exclusion require different policy solutions. Traditional policy approaches alone cannot address
participation exclusion in social, economic and political life, and removing barriers to social, economic and political participation will not eliminate
issues of living mode exclusion. New approaches
are needed that integrate multicultural policies into
human development strategies (table 2.2).
CULTURAL

EXCLUSIONS REQUIRE THEIR

OWN POLICY APPROACHES

There is no evidence that eliminating economic
and political inequalities would erase living
mode inequalities. Some groups are economically
privileged but culturally (and politically) marginalized, such as the Chinese in South-East
Asia.52 Nationalist minorities like the Catalans
in Spain or the Québécois in Canada enjoy the
same standard of living as the majority, and in
some cases a higher than average income, and
their right to participate in the political process
is well protected. Yet they have suffered living
mode exclusion as their language and traditions
were marginalized by the central government.53
So while it is common for living mode exclusion and political or economic exclusion to go
together, they are distinct (see chapter 1). Living
mode exclusion requires its own analysis and
remedies. Too often cultural policy-making has
been more concerned with the promotion of
arts and the protection of cultural heritage than
with the promotion of cultural liberty. Even
today, key debates on cultural policies focus
largely on protecting cultural heritage. But while
these issues are important, the fundamental question of promoting cultural liberty has largely
been forgotten (box 2.5).54 To promote cultural

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

liberty, policies of cultural inclusion need to give
public recognition, accommodation and support to suppressed cultural identities. When this
happens, disadvantaged cultural groups can see
their identities reflected in the symbols and institutions of the state, removing many of the
sources of their discontent.
INCORPORATING

MULTICULTURALISM INTO

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT STRATEGIES

Many traditional approaches to social, economic and political equality have been based
on assimilation. Groups are expected to take
on the language of the dominant culture at
the expense of their own and must sometimes
deny their religious and other traditions to
succeed. There is nothing wrong with identifying with a dominant culture, but people
should not be forced to make a stark choice between their identities and economic or political progress. Cultural liberty and human
development require that individuals be as
free to maintain their identities as they are to
change them. For that, multicultural policies

need to be integrated into human development strategies (see table 2.2).
For example, while democracy is the only
form of government consistent with all freedoms
(including cultural freedoms), majoritarian rule
does not always protect claims for cultural recognition and respect. As chapter 3 argues, asymmetric federalism (different rights—such as
language rights—for different regions based on
cultural need) and power sharing through proportionality and representative electoral arrangements are options to consider when majoritarian
democracy falls short. Nor can socio-economic exclusion be addressed simply through policies of
pro-poor growth and redistribution. Special programmes may be appropriate, even essential, to
overcome discrimination and redress past wrongs.
Bilingual education can give non-dominant
language groups equal opportunities. In essence,
multicultural policies require looking at equity in
a new way. Where groups have specific cultural
needs or are disadvantaged as a result of past
wrongs, identical policy approaches will not
produce equal opportunities—differentiated policy approaches are required (see table 2.2).

Map

2.1

Guatemala exhibits
substantial overlap
between linguistic
communities and
social exclusion
1998
Indigenous linguistic communities
Non-indigenous linguistic communities
High social exclusion

BELIZE

MEXICO

G UATEMALA

HONDURAS
PACIFIC
OCEAN

Source: UNDP 2004.

TABLE 2.2

Integrating multicultural policies into human development strategies

Three pillars of the human
development strategy

Necessary for cultural liberty

But not sufficient
for cultural liberty

Additional
multicultural policies

Potential contradictions
between aims of
multiculturalism and
three pillars

Democracy

Democracy is the only form of
government consistent with
all human freedoms and
human rights, including
cultural freedoms and rights.

Democracy does little to
accommodate minority
interests. Well developed
democracies have neglected
claims for cultural recognition
from ethnic, linguistic and
religious groups, including
indigenous groups and
immigrants. Democracy also
permits the rise of violent
extremist groups.

Incorporate accommodation
of minority identities and
adopt policies of
multiculturalism.
Consider asymmetric
federalism and executive
power sharing.
Recognize multiple identities
and multiple citizenship.

Claims for cultural
recognition often made by
non-democratic groups.
Demands can be antithetical
to building democracy,
freezing traditional practices
that are oppressive in the
name of “authenticity”, and
may not be supported by
many members of the
relevant group.

Pro-poor growth

Pro-poor growth is necessary
to redress socio-economic
exclusion (participation
exclusion) of cultural groups.

Pro-poor growth is not
enough to overcome
discrimination and redress
past wrongs.

Develop special support
programmes for jobs, training
and credit.
Institute affirmative action
programmes.

Affirmative action is contrary
to principles of equality. Are
special programmes an
alternative to affirmative
action?

Equitable expansion of
social opportunities

Equitable expansion of social
opportunities is necessary to
redress socio-economic
exclusion of cultural groups.

Equitable expansion of social
opportunities is not enough
to overcome discrimination
and redress past wrongs.
Also, does not address
demand for different
opportunities, such as
different kinds of education.

Develop special support
programmes for excluded
groups.
Institute affirmative action
programmes.
Offer separate publicly funded
provisions, such as schools.

Affirmative action is contrary
to principles of equality. Are
special programmes an
alternative to affirmative
action?
May involve “unfair inclusion”
and exclusion from many
choices and opportunities
open to all other citizens.

Source: Human Development Report Office.

CHALLENGES FOR CULTURAL LIBERTY

37

BOX 2.5

Cultural policies—protecting cultural heritage and promoting cultural liberty
In 1969 the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization
(UNESCO) introduced the notion of “cultural policies”, calling on governments to explicitly recognize cultural actions as an
important end of public policy. The world
community has step by step heeded this
call: the 1982 World Conference on Cultural
Policies in Mexico, the UN declaration of
1988 through 1997 as the Decade for Culture and Development, the 1998 Stockholm
Intergovernmental Conference on Cultural
Policies for Development and the increasing number of states establishing cultural
ministries are all evidence of the realization
that culture is development and vice versa.

In the beginning, the notion of cultural
policy-making was concerned with the promotion of arts and the protection of cultural
heritage. It is now increasingly related to cultural liberty, as the World Commission on
Culture and Development proposed in its
1995 report, Our Creative Diversity. Cultural
liberty is inseparable from respect and recognition of cultural diversity and the safeguarding of cultural heritage, both physical
and intangible.
The cycle of cultural policy must end
where it began a quarter of a century ago,
with people, and their cultural freedom
and fulfilment, the central end of cultural
policy-making.

Source: Arizpe 2004.

THREE MYTHS SURROUNDING CULTURAL
LIBERTY AND DEVELOPMENT

Few countries have attempted formal multicultural polices. Most countries have resisted
them. Political scientists and philosophers have
debated whether multiculturalism is consistent
with democracy and human rights. Part of the
reason lies in the realities of majority politics.
The vulnerable are easy to ignore. Policy-makers
have serious concerns about the effect of such
policies on the country as a whole. Perceptions
persist that ensuring cultural liberty is a luxury:
it would be nice, but the costs are just too high.
Many of these perceptions are based on
misconceptions about the role that cultural liberty, cultural diversity and even cultures
themselves play in a society’s development.
Here, three such myths are examined in detail:
• Some cultures are more likely to make development progress than others.
• Cultural diversity inevitably leads to clashes
over values.
• Cultural diversity is an obstacle to
development.
MYTH 1: SOME CULTURES ARE MORE LIKELY TO
MAKE DEVELOPMENT PROGRESS THAN OTHERS

There is no clear relationship between culture and
development.55 The idea that a group’s culture
matters for its development has enormous intuitive

38

appeal, allowing cultural stereotypes to be turned
into explanations for the state of the world. This
idea is not new. It goes back at least as far as de
Tocqueville’s view of American democracy in
the early 19th century and Weber’s idealization
of the Protestant work ethic. But a new wave of
cultural determinism is emerging—attributing
the failures of growth and democratization to inherent flaws in cultural traits.
These are dangerous ideas—that can lead to
extreme policy conclusions. If some cultures in
a society are believed not to be attuned to economic growth or democracy, it is not a long
step to argue that they must be suppressed or
assimilated. To overgeneralize, if Africa’s failure
to progress can be blamed on culture, why
bother with political and economic policies or
with foreign aid?
Proponents of cultural determinism often
label large parts of the world as simply “African”
or “Islamic”.56 But culture is not a homogeneous
attribute. There are huge variations in language,
religion, literature, art and living styles within the
same cultural “group”.57 Moreover, culture is not
uniquely pivotal in determining our lives and
identities. Class, gender, profession and politics
also matter hugely. Without being able to identify these clear and common cultural traits, a
meaningful theory of cultural determinism struggles to get off the ground.58
There can be great continuity in a culture, but
even in cultures with very long traditions rapid
changes can occur over one or two generations.59
For example, it is difficult to ascribe Japan’s development to “Japanese culture” when interaction
with the industrializing West in the mid-19th century led to the Meiji restoration and the determination to change the face of Japanese education.
Even aspects of culture than seem entrenched
can be altered. Bangladesh, for example, has taken
great strides in reducing practices of gender inequality. Because cultures evolve, a society’s culture today may determine very little of its future
development. And these changes happen not as
a result of targeted policies of cultural change, as
cultural determinists might propose. They happen
through economic and political interactions with
other cultures and through better education—a
policy conclusion that differs little from those in
other areas of development theory.60

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

Even what is perceived as valuable for development in a culture is apt to change, and
Western economies can no longer be assumed
to be the model for the world.61 Consider Japan
again, which drew from a different class of cultural values than did the West for economic
operations, emphasizing company loyalty, responsibility, interpersonal trust and implicit
contracts to drive tremendous economic
progress in the 20th century—values now espoused in every management training course in
the West. But it was not always this way. So, predicting the value—and future—of cultural traits
is far from straightforward.
It is not that culture offers no insights into
the development process—cultural influences
can make a difference. Some analysis has found,
for example, that work ethic, thrift, honesty
and openness to strangers can play a role in
economic growth.62 And when those influences
are understood to be varied and changeable
and one source of influence among many, culture can offer constructive insights into human
behaviour and development. But there is no
grand cultural theory of development here. The
econometric evidence underlines this. In explaining growth rates, for example, economic
policy, geography and the burden of disease
were all found to be highly relevant. Cultural
factors—such as whether a society is Hindu or
Muslim—were found to be insignificant.63
So, while statistical analysis can help in assessing the validity of a theory, history is perhaps
its greatest judge: and so far the history of cultural determinism exposes a theory one step behind the real world. By the time Weber’s glowing
assessment of the Protestant ethic was being recognized, many Catholic countries (France, Italy)
were growing faster than Protestant Britain or
Germany. The theory was then expanded to be
more generally Christian and Western. But then
Japan had to be included. And soon, East Asia
was growing fastest, and old views that Confucian values do not promote conditions for growth
had to be quickly jettisoned. Then Thailand, essentially a Buddhist country, became the fastest
growing, so the theory had to be altered again.64
So far, then, cultural determinism has not been
able to catch up. Are today’s views better founded
and better able to predict a culture’s influence

CHALLENGES FOR CULTURAL LIBERTY

on development—say, in Africa—or the compatibility of some religions with democracy—say,
Islam?
Growth and development in Africa. Some
propose that culture is determining development
in Sub-Saharan Africa. A problematic “African
culture” the argument goes, is unsuited to economic, political and social development.65
It is a convenient tautology for the cultural
determinist to combine the idea of an “African
culture” with the fact that Africa is failing. But
African countries have much more in common
than their cultures, and many of these factors may
be more relevant in their struggles to develop.
Human Development Report 2003 identified 38 “priority” countries in Sub-Saharan
Africa that have both low levels of development and weak progress towards the Millennium
Development Goals (see Statistical feature 1,
The state of human development). Of these,
21 are landlocked or have a large proportion of
their populations living far from the coast. And
most are small—only 4 have more than 40 million people. These countries are also highly dependent on primary commodities, which make
up more than two-thirds of exports for 16 of the
23 countries with data. The disease burden in
these countries is also extreme: in 22 of them
more than 5% of the population has HIV/AIDS,
and malaria remains prevalent.
In the examples showcased to argue the decisive role of culture in development, realities such
as these often lie just below the surface. An often
cited example, discussed in detail in chapter 1,
is that of the Republic of Korea and Ghana in the
1960s, whose rapid divergence in the following
decades has frequently been attributed to cultural
differences. But analysis, as chapter 1 points out,
has shown more important differences, such as
levels of investment in education.66 The example demonstrates that economic and social policy can have an enormous influence. Focusing
internal and external resources on health and education is the first step out of the poverty trap.
Even handicaps of geography—such as small
internal markets and limited access to world
trading routes—can be addressed through regional integration and cooperation.
African success stories are emerging. In Cape
Verde, Mauritius, Mozambique and Uganda

By the time Weber’s
glowing assessment of the
Protestant ethic was being
recognized, many Catholic
countries (France, Italy)
were growing faster than
Protestant Britain or
Germany

39

All religions contain some
ideas that can be helpful
to development and some
that can be harmful

40

GDP per capita grew at more than 3% in the
1990s.67 Benin, Mali and Senegal increased primary enrolment rates by more than 15 percentage points.68 Despite the growing HIV/AIDS
epidemic in Africa, Guinea and Niger reduced
child mortality rates by more than 5 percentage
points.69
The world has the knowledge and the resources to overcome such policy challenges, offering the possibility that Africa can take its
place as a full partner in the global economy. It
would not be the first time the cultural determinist thesis had to adjust—this time bringing
“African culture” into the fold.
Islam and democracy. All religions contain
some ideas that can be helpful to development
and some that can be harmful.70 Islam is sometimes alleged to be incompatible with democracy,
another way that culture is said to determine
development (see also chapter 1). Yet there are
basic Islamic principles that lay a foundation
for democracy including the shura (consultation), ijithad (independent reasoning), ijma
(consensus) and the Qur’anic injunction that
there be no compulsion in matters of religion.71
The idea that Islam is incompatible with
democracy is counter not only to the word of
Islam, but also to the practice of states with Muslim majorities. Driving this misunderstanding,
perhaps, is the coincidence that many Arab countries are both Islamic and have non-democratic
regimes. But the difference between Arab countries with Muslim majorities and non-Arab
countries with Muslim majorities is stark. None
of the Arab countries that is predominantly Muslim has had five consecutive years of moderate
or strong political and electoral rights in the past
quarter of a century. In the non-Arab Islamic
world 8 of 29 countries have enjoyed such rights.
With one set of Islamic countries performing poorly on democracy and another performing strongly, their common trait, Islam, cannot
be the lone reason for a failure of democracy. The
evidence shows that Islamic countries can perform as strongly as non-Islamic countries on
measures of democracy. Among the world’s
poorest countries (to control for income because
richer countries are more likely to be democratic) non-Arab Islamic countries are as likely to be
democracies as non-Islamic countries.72

The Arab Human Development Report
2003 identified a freedom deficit in the Arab region relative to other world regions. The reason
for this deficit does not appear to lie with the
people of the Arab states or with an antidemocratic culture: surveys have shown that as
many if not more people in the Arab countries
believe that democracy is the best form of government as in any other part of the world including the United States and Europe.73 Perhaps
the answer lies in the history of power politics.
And in a lack of openness to ideas and culture
from outside the region—only 330 books were
translated into Arabic in the whole Arab world
in 1995. Greek, a language with one-twelfth
the number of speakers, had five times the number of books translated.74
MYTH 2: CULTURAL

DIVERSITY INEVITABLY

LEADS TO CLASHES OVER VALUES

There is little evidence to justify this claim.
Since the 1950s, 70 territorially concentrated ethnic groups have engaged in violent conflict.75
These types of conflict rose sharply with the end
of the cold war, doubling between the 1970s and
1980s and reaching a peak of 48 in 1991. At the
start of 2003, 22 such conflicts continued, and
another 76 groups sought greater autonomy
but used tactics short of full-fledged war (such
as protests or isolated acts of violence).76
A popular explanation of such violence
points to cultural or ethnic differences as fundamentally responsible—arguing for some
innate propensity among people from different
cultures to fight one another for domination
and autonomy over differences in values that are
incompatible. This view is captured by Samuel
Huntington’s well known prediction of a “clash
of civilizations”.77 These ideas have also been
used to explain interethnic conflicts within nations, as in Liberia and the former Yugoslavia.
It certainly is true that many conflicts have
a cultural dimension. The opposing groups each
see themselves as belonging to a common culture (ethnicity or religion) and fighting (at least
partly) for cultural autonomy. For this reason
conflicts have been attributed to primordial
ethnic passions, making conflict appear unavoidable and intractable.78

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

Chapter 1 points out the serious flaws in this
approach, based as it is on an incorrect view of
the formation, role and malleability of identities.
This argument also diverts attention from important economic and political factors. Extensive evidence on how identities form and change
and why their salience varies over time indicates that while a culture is inherited, it is also
constructed and chosen. Many people have
multiple identities.79 Cultural differences are
not the primary cause of conflict. And in some
cases diversity might even reduce the risk of
conflict by making group mobilization more
difficult.80 So, what causes these tensions?
Ethnic conflicts—or greed and inequality?
Many conflicts do fall along cultural lines, because people engaged on each side of these
wars see themselves as belonging to a common
culture. But the root causes are rarely the cultures themselves or an incompatibility of values.
Recent research offers two other explanations:
greed and horizontal inequalities. The struggle

to control valuable natural resources, such as oil
or diamonds, may be at the heart of ethnic warfare, as in Liberia, Sierra Leone and Sudan.
What often appears to be ethnic conflict may
simply be a resource grab by elite groups that
have manipulated ethnic loyalties.
Declining economic performance and high
poverty levels are other important incitements
to war, as in Sierra Leone and Somalia. Behind
many other conflicts are inequalities among
ethnic, religious or linguistic groups (horizontal
inequalities). When the cultural, political or
socio-economic claims of different groups remain unmet, tension builds and can boil over
into violence.
Recent research shows that many conflicts
have erupted when groups have had unequal
access to economic assets, income or employment
opportunities, social services or political opportunities (box 2.6). Work by the UNDP Bureau
of Conflict Prevention and Recovery shows that
the likelihood of conflict increases with rising

BOX 2.6

Inequalities between groups can fuel conflict and tension
The root causes of violent conflict are rarely simple. But as the examples below show, a common theme is emerging from recent research
into conflict: the role that socio-economic and
political inequalities between groups can play
in causing tensions and violence. Less research
has been done on the role that cultural exclusions of groups may play (such as lack of recognition of languages or religious practices), but
as this Report argues, these are also issues that
can lead to mobilization and protests and so may
also be important root causes or triggers of
conflict.
• Severe rioting against the Chinese in
Malaysia in the late 1960s has been attributed largely to the animosity felt by the politically dominant but economically sidelined
Bumiputera majority towards the economically dominant Chinese minority.
• Civil war in Sri Lanka since the early 1980s
has been linked to tensions resulting from
inequalities between the Tamil minority
and Sinhalese majority. Colonial administrators had favoured the Tamil minority
economically, but this advantage was
sharply reversed once the Sinhalese gained
power and increasingly sidelined the Tamil
minority in such areas as educational

•

•

•

•

opportunities, civil service recruitment and
language policy.
In Uganda the Bantu-speaking people (largely
in the centre and south) have been economically dominant but politically sidelined compared with the non-Bantu-speaking people
(largely in the north). These economic and political inequities have played a role in major
conflicts, including the violence initiated by
Idi Amin (1970s) and by the second Obote
regime (1983–85).
Indigenous people in the state of Chiapas,
Mexico, have long suffered political and
socio-economic deprivations. They have demanded greater political autonomy, improved socio-economic conditions and
protection of their cultural heritage, culminating in uprisings against the Mexican state
in four municipalities.
In South Africa before 1994 the black majority was severely disadvantaged politically
and socio-economically. That led to many uprisings between 1976 and the transfer of
power in 1993.
Catholics in Northern Ireland have suffered
economic and political deprivations since
the 16th century. The establishment of
Northern Ireland as part of the United

•

•

•

•

Kingdom in the 1920s ensured that Protestants would enjoy permanent political and
economic dominance—fuelling demands by
northern Catholics to become part of the
predominantly Catholic Republic of Ireland.
Violent conflict started in the late 1960s and
began to ease in the 1990s following systematic efforts to reduce these inequalities.
Constitutional crises and coups have occurred in Fiji, notably in 1987 and 1999, as
economically sidelined indigenous Fijians
have feared losing political control to the
economically dominant Indian-origin Fijians.
Increasing tensions between Muslims and
Christians in Poso, Central Sulawesi,
Indonesia, began surfacing in the mid-1990s
as the Muslim community increasingly gained
more than indigenous Christians from new
economic policies.
Since colonial times the indigenous people
of Guatemala have suffered political and
economic discrimination, contributing to
the country’s ongoing conflicts.
The Maoist insurgency launched in Nepal in
1996 may be attributed to deep grievances
stemming from the systematic marginalization and exclusion of certain ethnic groups,
castes and women.

Source: Stewart 2002; UNDP 2004; Fraenkel 2003.

CHALLENGES FOR CULTURAL LIBERTY

41

Creating an environment
in which multiple
identities flourish begins
with encouraging cultural
liberty and equality
between groups in
cultural, political and
socio-economic
opportunities

group inequality, as in Indonesia and Nepal.
The root of conflict in the Solomon Islands was
the struggle for scarce and poorly managed resources (box 2.7). In Bolivia the government of
Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada was forced to resign
in October 2003 in large part because of the activism and uprisings of the indigenous majority
and their supporters, aroused by their poverty and
political marginalization. In Ecuador, too, indigenous groups mobilized around issues of
poverty and inequality and joined other groups
in protest against the government of Jamil
Mahuad, who was forced to resign in January
2000.81 In some cases groups have been both economically and politically deprived (as in Mexico
and South Africa), while in others a group may
be politically dominant yet economically deprived (as in Malaysia, Sri Lanka and Uganda).
The industrialized world is not immune to
this sort of violence. Race riots in US cities have
been linked to severe racial disparities in income and public spending.82 In Northern Ireland the Catholic minority suffered both
economic and political discrimination. Statistical
evidence supports this in-depth research. A
study of 233 groups in 93 countries strongly supports the hypothesis that such inequalities between groups are liable to lead to violence.83

BOX 2.7

Solomon Islands’ ethnic difference not the cause of conflict
In the conflict in the Solomon Islands, ethnicity issues diverted attention from the core
issues of land tenure, economic development
and more accountable governance that underpinned the protests. The peace agreement,
for example, refers to the victims of “ethnic
unrest” and the need to restore “ethnic harmony” in the Solomon Islands. But it is naïve
and potentially dangerous for would-be peacemakers to view the conflict solely through
the lens of interethnic hostility. Situated in a
culturally diverse region with more than 1,000
languages, the Solomon Islands (where at
least 70 distinct languages are spoken) is a
weak and impoverished modern state, incapable of collecting taxes or delivering basic services. With hundreds of tribal groups and
small clans known as wantoks, the concept
of larger ethnic loyalties is almost as foreign
and artificial as the notion of the state.
Source: Ponzio 2004 citing Reilly 2002; Schoorl and Friesen 2000.

42

Although an ethnic feud on the surface, the recent intense social unrest in
the Solomon Islands stems more from the
struggle for scarce and poorly managed
resources, whose ownership was previously vested in the clan, tribe or line. With
the arrival of increasing numbers of migrant workers in the 1990s on the resourcerich island of Guadalcanal, resentment
grew among the island’s native settlers.
Starting in 1998 armed groups of Guadalcanal youth (known as the Isatabu Freedom Movement, or IFM) engaged in
belligerent actions that resulted in the internal displacement of more than 35,000
Solomon Islanders. Clashes ensued, predominantly with inhabitants from the
neighbouring island of Malaita, and continued until late 2000 and the signing of an
Australian-brokered peace agreement.

Most research on these conflicts has focused
on economic and political inequalities, but a
lack of cultural recognition can also be important. The introduction of the “Sinhala only” language policy was a strong impetus to the dramatic
escalation of conflict in Sri Lanka. Language
policy also played a role in the civil war in
Moldova. And the Soweto riots in South Africa
were triggered not by new economic or political
deprivations but by attempts to impose Afrikaans
on black schools. The peace agreement that
ended more than 30 years of fighting in
Guatemala included the Agreement on the Identity and Rights of Indigenous People (as part of
the general peace accords), which gave official
recognition to the country’s multi-ethnicity.
The state’s typical response to cultural differences is suppression and assimilation—to
build a homogeneous nation. But suppression
of cultural liberty is an attack on human development. And attempts to suppress and assimilate can heighten the tensions in society—so
much so that they spill over into violent conflict.
Multiple identities can reduce conflict.
Identities based on common cultural characteristics, such as religion, language or ethnicity,
appear to promote stronger loyalty among group
members than identities based on other characteristics. From that, leaders have learned that
uniting groups based on a single cultural bond
may be the best way to “rally the troops”. The idea
that individuals have a single rigid identity is divisive and confrontational. There is no question
that this has been important in many conflicts.
Creating an environment in which multiple
identities flourish is no easy task. It begins with
encouraging cultural liberty and equality between groups in cultural, political and socioeconomic opportunities. People must be free to
choose how to define themselves and must be
afforded the same rights and opportunities that
their neighbours enjoy. This Report asserts that
a main hope for harmony lies in promoting our
multiple identities.
MYTH 3: CULTURAL

DIVERSITY IS AN

OBSTACLE TO DEVELOPMENT

There is no clear relationship, good or bad, between diversity and development. An argument

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

SPECIAL CONTRIBUTION
Diversity—from divisive to inclusive
On 27 April 1994 the people of South Africa
founded a nation on the pledge that we would
undo the legacy of our divided past in order to
build a better life for all.
It was not a pledge that we made lightly.
For generations, millions had been deliberately reduced to poverty. And to perpetuate itself, the apartheid system that claimed to be
ordained from on high was sustained only by
brute force, robbing us all of our humanity—
oppressed and oppressor alike.
For decades we had fought for a non-racial,
non-sexist society, and even before we came
into power in the historic elections of 1994, our
vision of democracy was defined by the principle, among others, that no person or groups of
persons shall be subjected to oppression, domination or discrimination by virtue of race, gender, ethnic origin, colour or creed.
Once we won power, we chose to regard the
diversity of colours and languages that had once
been used to divide us as a source of strength.

We ensured that the basic law of our land, our
Constitution and Bill of Rights, promoted unity
and gave unique attention to social and economic rights. Our path of inclusiveness was not
new, nor had it been chosen in haste. For decades
the African National Congress had promoted national unity, and even at the height of oppression,
when racial interaction led to prison and death,
we never gave up on our aim to build a society
grounded on friendship and common humanity.
Now, although laws no longer enforce the
old divisions, they are still visible in social and
economic life, in our residential areas, in our
workplaces and in the growing inequality between rich and poor.
When we took on the project to transform
our society, one of our rallying cries was “freedom from want”. Our goal was to banish hunger,
illiteracy and homelessness and ensure that everyone had access to food, education and housing.
We saw freedom as inseparable from human
dignity and equality. Now the foundation for a

for suppressing cultural groups and encouraging assimilation is that cultural diversity hampers
development. Historically, one of the ideological backbones of the nation-state is that it functions much more effectively if it has a single
cultural identity.
Much fuel for that argument today comes
from Sub-Saharan Africa. A region rich in diversity but struggling with economic growth
and development leads to speculation that diversity itself might be the cause of the problem.
But the literature reveals an important distinction: problems arise not simply when diverse groups live together but also when
tensions between these groups lead to inefficient political decision-making and disproportionate access for one or more groups to
material resources and patronage.84
In Kenya, for example, President Daniel
arap Moi took over from Jomo Kenyatta in
1978. By 1988 the share of road building in the
“home regions” of the Kenyatta coalition was
a third of what it had been at the end of the
Kenyatta years, while road building in the Moi
home regions almost doubled. The picture was
similar for health spending in 1988, which was

CHALLENGES FOR CULTURAL LIBERTY

better life has been laid, and construction has
begun. We are fully aware that our freedom and
our rights will only gain their full meaning as we
succeed together in overcoming the divisions
and inequalities of our past and in improving the
lives of all, especially the poor. Today, we are
starting to reap some of the harvest we sowed at
the end of a South African famine.
Many in the international community, observing from a distance how our society defied
the prophets of doom and their predictions of
endless conflict, have spoken of a miracle. Yet
those who have been closely involved in the
transition will know that it has been the product of human decision.

Nelson Mandela
1993 Nobel Peace Prize Winner

18% in the regions of the Kenyatta coalition
and 49% in the regions of the Moi coalition.85
The way to overall economic growth, and to
high levels of health and education, is to
formulate policies for the country, not for interest groups. Interest group politics are a problem in all countries, not just the culturally
diverse. Indeed, the purpose of democracies is
to manage conflicting interests through a transparent political system and open dialogue. Many
established and prosperous democracies are
constantly balancing the interests of powerful
groups and those of the country.
In culturally diverse countries that are performing poorly, how much can diversity be
blamed? Many of the poorest countries face
enormous hurdles: high levels of HIV/AIDS
and malaria, low levels of education, a location
far from world markets. Resolving the tensions
between groups is clearly not going to solve these
problems. Consider Botswana, a homogeneous
country with a stable political situation—and
the highest HIV/AIDS prevalence in the world.
Again, the idea that diversity is bad for development is demolished by the many success
stories of societies that recognize diversity.

43

Attempts to suppress and
assimilate diverse cultural
groups are not only
morally wrong—they are
often ineffective,
heightening tensions

44

Malaysia, with 62% of its people Malays and
other indigenous groups, 30% ethnic Chinese
and 8% Indian, was the world’s 10th fastest
growing economy during 1970–90, years when
it implemented a broad range of affirmative action policies.86 India has managed its diverse cultures with pluralist policies and 15 official
languages—and made remarkable progress in
economic growth and in health and education.
These success stories of culturally diverse
countries point to the importance of pluralist
policies. To the extent that cultural diversity
can lead to tensions between groups and to inefficient political decision-making, the solution
lies in reducing these tensions. As this Report
argues from beginning to end, attempts to suppress and assimilate diverse cultural groups are
not only morally wrong—they are often ineffective, heightening tensions. Needed instead are
accommodating pluralist policies for incorporating individuals with diverse cultural identities into society.
Economic benefits of migration. A special
case in the relationship between diversity and
development is migration to the more developed
countries. Unlike managing existing diversity, accepting economic migrants—or turning a blind
eye to illegal immigrants looking for work—is
a clear policy decision to increase diversity for
economic gain.
The positive impact of migration on the
ageing demographic profile of the West lies behind softer approaches to economic migration.
Large inflows of migrants are needed for countries to maintain the ratio of working to nonworking citizens—the European Union needs
about 3 million immigrants a year, roughly twice
the current number.87 Immigrants also bring
entrepreneurial skills—30% of the new
companies in Silicon Valley in California in
1995–98 were started by Chinese and Indian
immigrants (these ideas are further developed
in chapter 5).88
And while debate continues on the brain
drain from developing countries, the economic
benefits of migration are not just one way. Remittances have soared, adding up to $80 billion
in 2002, outstripping foreign aid and providing
one of the biggest sources of revenue for some
poor countries.89

But there are losers as well as winners.
People already residing in the country feel
threatened by the new immigrants and unfairly treated, through perceptions about a depressing impact on wages and employment.
Key issues arise for the immigrants too. Needed
for their labour and not their culture, their cultural freedoms are often not protected. Chapter 5 looks at the delicate policy balances of
ensuring the benefits of migration while avoiding growing tensions between groups within a
country and the negative consequences that can
follow.
Diversity and dynamism through an exchange of ideas. Diverse societies can reap real
benefits through the dynamism and creativity
arising from the interactions of different cultural
groups. Such effects are not easy to capture.
They are most visible at the international level,
where benefits can accrue from interactions
between countries through trade and a sharing
of experiences. A key element in Japan’s emergence as one of the world’s richest economies
was a reversal of isolationist policies, with a
firm commitment to “seek knowledge throughout the world”.90, 91 And Arab Human Development Report 2003 identifies the lack of
openness to ideas as a major factor holding
back progress in that region.92
Effects within countries can be similar. The
United States is the leading example of a country founded on diversity and tolerance where
enormous economic success has followed.
Benefits can come directly from interactions
between groups. And businesses and entrepreneurs can be drawn to cities and societies
where cultural freedom and diversity flourish.
A study by the Brookings Institution finds that
11 of the metropolitan areas in the United States
with the highest overall diversity are among
the top 15 high-technology areas.93 The implication is that diverse and tolerant environments
foster the creation and innovation necessary
for high-technology industries.
TODAY’S CHALLENGES FOR CULTURAL LIBERTY
This Report argues that multicultural approaches
to managing diversity (see table 2.2) need not
end in conflict, fragmentation and weak

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

development. Indeed, such approaches may
help avoid problems by easing tensions before
they become acute. In the big picture the arguments for these policies are clear. But for
policy-makers the contradictions, trade-offs and
clashes with other aspects of human development can monopolize their attention.
For example, should London provide instruction in the 300 different languages that
students in its state schools speak when there
is so much demand for resources elsewhere?
Does affirmative action violate principles of
equity? How can a secular state balance the
varying needs of religious groups? These are difficult questions. Ignoring the problem will not
make it go away.

CHALLENGES FOR CULTURAL LIBERTY

In some areas policies for cultural recognition will not interfere with human development.
In others innovative policy solutions are needed
to manage trade-offs. As the following chapters
show, the tensions and policy trade-offs can be
managed, despite what current discourse might
suggest, especially where the costs have been exaggerated and the benefits ignored.
In a world where about 900 million people
belong to groups that experience cultural exclusion in some form, promoting cultural liberty
is an enormous challenge. Almost twice as many
people are discriminated against or disadvantaged socially, economically or politically. The
rest of this Report focuses on the policy issues
for addressing the challenges to cultural liberty.

45

CHAPTER 3

Building multicultural democracies

Chapter 2 chronicles the widespread suppression of cultural liberty and the discrimination
based on cultural identity—ethnic, religious
and linguistic. How can states be more inclusive?
Democracy, equitable development and state cohesion are essential. But also needed are multicultural policies that explicitly recognize cultural
differences. But such policies are resisted because ruling elites want to keep their power, and
so they play on the flawed assumptions of the
“myths” detailed in chapter 2. And these policies are challenged for being undemocratic and
inequitable. This chapter argues that multicultural policies are not only desirable but also
feasible and necessary. That individuals can
have multiple and complementary identities.
That cultures, far from fixed, are constantly
evolving. And that equitable outcomes can be
achieved by recognizing cultural differences.
This chapter also argues that states can formulate policies of cultural recognition in ways that
do not contradict other goals and strategies of
human development, such as consolidating
democracy, building a capable state and fostering more equal socio-economic opportunities. To
do this, states need to recognize cultural differences in their constitutions, their laws and their
institutions.1 They also need to formulate policies to ensure that the interests of particular
groups—whether minorities or historically marginalized majorities—are not ignored or overriden by the majority or by other dominant groups.2
RESOLVING STATE DILEMMAS IN
RECOGNIZING CULTURAL DIFFERENCE

Pursuing multicultural policies is not easy—given
the complexities and controversial trade-offs—
and opponents of such policies criticize multicultural interventions on several grounds. Some
believe that such policies undermine the building of a cohesive nation state with a homogeneous

BUILDING MULTICULTURAL DEMOCRACIES

cultural identity, the dominant political project of
the 20th century. Most states influenced by this
thinking were deeply committed to fostering a single, homogeneous national identity with a shared
sense of history, values and beliefs. Recognition
of ethno-cultural diversity, especially of organized, politically active and culturally differentiated groups and minorities, was viewed as a
serious threat to state unity, destabilizing to the
political and social unity achieved after historic
struggles3 (feature 3.1). Other critics, often classical liberals, argue that group distinctions—such
as reserved seats in parliaments for ethnic groups,
special advantages in access to jobs, or the wearing of religious symbols—contradict principles of
individual equality.
The issues at stake are further complicated
by demands for cultural recognition by groups
that are not internally democratic or representative of all their members, or by demands that
restrict rather than expand freedoms. Demands
to continue traditional practices—such as the
hierarchies of caste in Hindu society—may reflect the interests of the dominant group in
communities intent on preserving traditional
sources of power and authority, rather than the
interests of all members of the group.4 Legitimizing such claims could risk solidifying undemocratic practices in the name of “tradition”
and “authenticity”.5 It is an ongoing challenge
to respond to these kinds of political claims.
Everywhere around the world these demands for cultural recognition and the critical
responses to them also reflect historical injustices and inequities. In much of the developing
world contemporary complications of cultural
identity are intertwined with long histories of
colonial rule and its societal consequences.
Colonial views of cultural groups as fixed categories, formalized through colonial policies
of divide and rule (racial and ethnic categories
in the Caribbean6 or religious categories in

How can states be more
inclusive? Democracy,
equitable development
and state cohesion are
essential. But also needed
are multicultural policies
that explicitly recognize
cultural differences

47

Feature 3.1 State unity or ethnocultural identity? Not an inevitable choice
Historically, states have tried to establish and enhance their political legitimacy through nationbuilding strategies. They sought to secure their
territories and borders, expand the administrative reach of their institutions and acquire the
loyalty and obedience of their citizens through
policies of assimilation or integration. Attaining
these objectives was not easy, especially in a
context of cultural diversity where citizens, in
addition to their identification with their country, might also feel a strong sense of identity with
their community—ethnic, religious, linguistic
and so on.
Most states feared that the recognition of
such difference would lead to social fragmentation and prevent the creation of a harmonious
society. In short, such identity politics was considered a threat to state unity. In addition, accommodating these differences is politically
challenging, so many states have resorted to either suppressing these diverse identities or ignoring them in the political domain.
Policies of assimilation—often involving
outright suppression of the identities of ethnic,
religious or linguistic groups—try to erode the
cultural differences between groups. Policies of
integration seek to assert a single national identity by attempting to eliminate ethno-national and
cultural differences from the public and political arena, while allowing them in the private domain.1 Both sets of policies assume a singular
national identity.
Nation building strategies privileging
singular identities
Assimilationist and integrationist strategies try to
establish singular national identities through
various interventions:2
• Centralization of political power, eliminating forms of local sovereignty or autonomy
historically enjoyed by minority groups, so
that all important decisions are made in forums where the dominant group constitutes
a majority.
• Construction of a unified legal and judicial
system, operating in the dominant group’s
language and using its legal traditions, and
the abolition of any pre-existing legal systems
used by minority groups.
• Adoption of official-language laws, which define the dominant group’s language as the
only official national language to be used in
the bureaucracy, courts, public services, the
army, higher education and other official
institutions.
• Construction of a nationalized system of
compulsory education promoting standardized curricula and teaching the dominant
group’s language, literature and history and

48

these strategies involved many forms of cultural
exclusion, as documented in chapter 2, that
made it difficult for people to maintain their
ways of life, language and religion or to hand
down their values to their children. People feel
strongly about such matters, and so resentment
often festered. In today’s world of increasing
democratization and global networks policies
that deny cultural freedoms are less and less
acceptable. People are increasingly assertive
about protesting assimilation without choice.
Assimilation policies were easier to pursue
with illiterate peasant populations, as with
Turkey’s language reform in 1928 propagating
a single language and script. But with the rapid
spread of a culture of universal human rights
these conditions are fast disappearing. Efforts to
impose such a strategy would be greatly challenged today. In any case the historical evidence
suggests that there need be no contradiction between a commitment to one national identity
and recognition of diverse ethnic, religious and
linguistic identities.3

defining them as the “national” language,
literature and history.
• Diffusion of the dominant group’s language
and culture through national cultural institutions, including state-run media and public museums.
• Adoption of state symbols celebrating the
dominant group’s history, heroes and culture,
reflected in such things as the choice of national holidays or the naming of streets, buildings and geographic characteristics.
• Seizure of lands, forests and fisheries from minority groups and indigenous people and
declaring them “national” resources.
• Adoption of settlement policies encouraging
members of the dominant national group to
settle in areas where minority groups historically resided.
• Adoption of immigration policies that give
preference to immigrants who share the same
language, religion or ethnicity as the dominant group.
These strategies of assimilation and integration sometimes worked to ensure political
stability, but at risk of terrific human cost and
denial of human choice. At worst, coercive assimilation involved genocidal assaults and explusions of some groups. In less extreme cases

Figure

1

Bolstering multiple and complementary
identities
If a country’s constitution insists on the notion
of a single people, as in Israel and Slovakia, it

Multiple and complementary national identities
Spain

Percent 0

Multiple and complementary identities

20

80

60

40

100

Spain
Catalonia
Basque Country
Galicia
Only Cat/
Basque/Gal

More Cat/Basque/
Galthan Spanish

Belgium
Percent 0

As Spanish as
Cat/Basque/Gal

More Spanish than
Cat/Basque/Gal

Only
Spanish

80

100

Multiple and complementary identities

20

40

60

Belgium
Wallonia
Flanders
Brussels
More Flemish/
Only Flemish/
Walloon Walloon than Belgian

As Belgian as
Flemish/Walloon

More Belgian than
Flemish/Walloon

Only
Belgian

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

becomes difficult to find the political space to
articulate the demands of other ethnic, religious
or linguistic minorities and indigenous people.
Constitutions that recognize multiple and complementary identities, as in South Africa,4 enable
political, cultural and socio-economic recognition of distinct groups.
A cursory look around the globe shows that
national identity need not imply a single
homogeneous cultural identity. Efforts to impose
one can lead to social tensions and conflicts. A
state can be multi-ethnic, multilingual and multireligious.5 It can be explicitly binational (Belgium) or multi-ethnic (India). Citizens can have
a solid commitment both to their state identity
and to their own cultural (or distinct national)
identity.6
Belgium and Spain show how appropriate
policies can foster multiple and complementary
identities (figure 1). Appropriate policies—
undertaken by Belgium since the 1830s and in
Spain since its 1978 Constitution—can diminish
polarization between groups within society, with
the majority of citizens now asserting multiple
and complementary identities.
Obviously, if people felt loyalty and affection
only for their own group, the larger state could
fall apart—consider the former Yugoslavia.

Figure

Fostering trust, support and identification
among all groups to build a democratic
“state nation’’
The solution could be to create institutions and
polices that allow for both self-rule that creates
a sense of belonging and a pride in one’s ethnic
group and for shared rule that creates attachment
to a set of common institutions and symbols. An
alternative to the nation state, then, is the “state
nation”, where various “nations”—be they ethnic, religious, linguistic or indigenous identities—
can coexist peacefully and cooperatively in a
single state polity.7
Case studies and analyses demonstrate that
enduring democracies can be established in polities that are multicultural. Explicit efforts are required to end the cultural exclusion of diverse
groups (as highlighted in the Spanish and Belgian
cases) and to build multiple and complementary
identities. Such responsive policies provide incentives to build a feeling of unity in diversity—

Trust, support and identification: poor and diverse countries can do
well with multicultural policies

2

Support for democracy
Democracy is preferable to any other
form of government (%) 1996–98a
Percent

Countries such as Iceland, the Republic of Korea
and Portugal are close to the ideal of a culturally
homogeneous nation-state. But over time even
states known for their homogeneity can be challenged by waves of immigration, as has happened
in the Netherlands and Sweden.

Trust in institutions
Great deal, quite (%)
1995–97a

100

United
States
Canadac
Australia
Uruguay

80

National identification
How proud are you to be a national of…
Great deal, quite (%) 1995–97a

Spain
Spain

Brazil

India

Austria
India
Argentina
Belgium

Switzerland

India

60

Canadac

Chile
Brazil
40

Austriab
Korea,
Rep. of

Brazil

Belgiumb

Germany

United
States
Australia

Spain

Germany

Switzerland

30
20

Argentina

a “we” feeling. Citizens can find the institutional
and political space to identify with both their
country and their other cultural identities, to
build their trust in common institutions and to
participate in and support democratic politics. All
of these are key factors in consolidating and
deepening democracies and building enduring
“state-nations”.
India’s constitution incorporates this notion. Although India is culturally diverse, comparative surveys of long-standing democracies
including India show that it has been very cohesive, despite its diversity. But modern India is
facing a grave challenge to its constitutional
commitment to multiple and complementary
identities with the rise of groups that seek to impose a singular Hindu identity on the country.
These threats undermine the sense of inclusion
and violate the rights of minorities in India
today.8 Recent communal violence raises serious
concerns for the prospects for social harmony and
threatens to undermine the country’s earlier
achievements.
And these achievements have been considerable. Historically, India’s constitutional
design recognized and responded to distinct
group claims and enabled the polity to hold together despite enormous regional, linguistic and
cultural diversity.9 As evident from India’s performance on indicators of identification, trust
and support (figure 2), its citizens are deeply
committed to the country and to democracy, despite the country’s diverse and highly stratified
society. This performance is particularly impressive when compared with that of other
long-standing—and wealthier—democracies.
The challenge is in reinvigorating India’s commitment to practices of pluralism, institutional
accommodation and conflict resolution through
democratic means.
Critical for building a multicultural democracy is a recognition of the shortcomings of historical nation-building exercises and of the
benefits of multiple and complementary identities. Also important are efforts to build the
loyalties of all groups in society through identification, trust and support.
National cohesion does not require the
imposition of a single identity and the denunciation of diversity. Successful strategies to
build ”state-nations” can and do accommodate diversity constructively by crafting responsive policies of cultural recognition. They
are effective solutions for ensuring the longer
terms objectives of political stability and social
harmony.

0

Note: Percentages exclude ‘don’t know/no answer’ replies. a. The most recent year available during the period specified. b. Data refer to
1992. c. The most recent year during the period 1990–93.

BUILDING MULTICULTURAL DEMOCRACIES

Source: Bhargava 2004; Kymlicka 2004; Stepan, Linz and Yadav
2004.

49

Redressing the cultural
exclusion of minorities
and other marginalized
groups requires explicit
multicultural policies to
ensure cultural
recognition

South Asia, for example), continue to have profound consequences.7 Contemporary states thus
cannot hope to address these problems without
some appreciation of the historical legacies of
racism, slavery and colonial conquest.
But while multicultural policies thus must
confront complexity and challenges in balancing cultural recognition and state unity, successful resolution is possible (see feature 3.1).
Many states have accommodated diverse groups
and extended their cultural freedoms without
compromising their unity or territorial integrity.
Policy interventions to minimize exclusive and
conflictual political identities have often prevented or helped to end violent conflict. Policies of multicultural accommodation have also
enhanced state capacity and promoted social harmony by bolstering multiple and complementary identities.
Redressing the cultural exclusion of minorities and other marginalized groups requires
more than providing for their civil and political
freedoms through instruments of majoritarian
democracy and equitable socio-economic policies.8 It requires explicit multicultural policies
to ensure cultural recognition.9 This chapter

BOX 3.1

A rough guide to federalism
Federalism is a system of political organization based on a constitutionally guaranteed
balance between shared rule and self-rule. It
involves at least two levels of government—
a central authority and its constituent regional units. The constituent units enjoy
autonomy and power over constitutionally
defined subjects—they can also play a role
in shaping the policies of the central government. The degree and scope of autonomy
varies widely. Some countries, such as Brazil,
grant considerable powers to their regions.
Others, such as Argentina, retain overriding
control at the centre.
Some other important distinctions:
Coming together or holding together.
In “coming together” federal arrangements,
as in Australia or Switzerland, the regions
chose to form a single federal polity. In
“holding together” arrangements, such as in
Belgium, Canada and Spain, the central government devolved political authority to the
regions to maintain a single unified state.
Source: Stepan 2001.

50

One identity or many. “Mono-national”
or “national” federations assert a single national
identity, as in Australia, Austria and Germany.
“Multi-national” federations, such as Malaysia
and Switzerland, constitutionally recognize
multiple identities. Other states combine the
two. India and Spain assert a single national
identity but recognize plural aspects of their
heterogeneous polity—say, by accommodating diverse linguistic groups.
Symmetric or asymmetric. In symmetric federalism the constituent units have
identical—that is symmetric—powers, relations and obligations relative to the central authority and each other, as in
Australia. In asymmetric federalism some
provinces enjoy different powers. In
Canada, for example, asymmetric federal
powers provided a way of reconciling Quebec to the federal system by awarding it specific powers connected to the protection
and promotion of French-Canadian language and culture.

explores how states are integrating cultural
recognition into their human development strategies in five areas:
• Policies for ensuring the political participation of diverse cultural groups.
• Policies on religion and religious practice
• Policies on customary law and legal pluralism.
• Policies on the use of multiple languages.
• Policies for redressing socio-economic
exclusion.
POLICIES FOR ENSURING THE POLITICAL
PARTICIPATION OF DIVERSE CULTURAL GROUPS

Many minorities and other historically marginalized groups are excluded from real political
power and so feel alienated from the state (chapter 2). In some cases the exclusion is due to a
lack of democracy or a denial of political rights.
If so, moving to democracy will help. But something more is required, because even when
members of such groups have equal political
rights in a democracy, they may be consistently
underrepresented or outvoted, and so view the
central government as alien and oppressive.
Not surprisingly, many minorities resist alien or
oppressive rule and seek more political power.
That is why a multicultural conception of
democracy is often required. Several models of
multicultural democracies have developed in recent years that provide effective mechanisms of
power sharing between culturally diverse
groups. Such arrangements are crucial for securing the rights of diverse cultural groups and
for preventing violations of these rights by majoritarian imposition or by the political dominance of the ruling elite.
Considered here are two broad categories of
democratic arrangements in which culturally
diverse groups and minorities can share power
within political processes and state institutions.
The first involves sharing power territorially
through federalism and its various forms. Federal arrangements involve establishing territorial subunits within a state for minorities to
exercise considerable autonomy (box 3.1). This
form of power-sharing arrangement is relevant
where minorities are territorially concentrated
and where they have a tradition of self-government that they are unwilling to surrender.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

The second category of arrangements involves power sharing through consociations,
using a series of instruments to ensure the participation of culturally diverse groups dispersed
throughout the country. These arrangements
address claims made by groups that are not territorially concentrated or do not demand autonomy or self-rule. Consociations are based on
the principle of proportionality: the ethnic or cultural composition of society is proportionally mirrored in the institutions of the state. Achieving
proportionality requires specific mechanisms
and policies. Electoral arrangements such as
proportional representation can better reflect
group composition, as can the use of reserved
seats and quotas in the executive and legislature.
Both federal and consociational types of
power-sharing arrangements are common around
the world. Neither is a panacea, but there are
many successful examples of both. This chapter
looks at a particular kind of federal arrangement
and some specific mechanisms of consociation
that are particularly suited to enabling the political
participation of diverse cultural groups.
POWER

SHARING THROUGH FEDERAL

ARRANGEMENTS : ASYMMETRIC FEDERALISM

Federalism provides practical ways of managing
conflict in multicultural societies10 through democratic and representative institutions—and of
enabling people to live together even as they
maintain their diversity.11 Sometimes the political demands of culturally diverse groups can be
accommodated by explicitly recognizing group
diversity and treating particular regions differently from others on specific issues. In such
“asymmetric” federal systems the powers
granted to subunits are not identical. Some regions have different areas of autonomy from
others. Federal states can thus accommodate
some subunits by recognizing specific distinctions in their political, administrative and economic structures, as Malaysia did when the
Borneo states of Sabah and Sarawak joined the
federation in 1963. This allows greater flexibility to respond to distinct demands and to accommodate diversity. These special measures
enable territorially concentrated group distinctions to politically coexist with the central

BUILDING MULTICULTURAL DEMOCRACIES

authority, thereby reducing violent clashes and
demands for secession.
There are several flourishing examples of
such entities. Almost every peaceful, longstanding democracy that is ethnically diverse is
not only federal but asymmetrically so. For instance, Belgium is divided into three regions
(the Walloon, Flemish, and Brussels-Capital regions), two established according to linguistic criteria (the Walloon region for French- and
German-speaking people and the Flemish region
for Dutch-speaking people). The Swiss federation also encompasses different linguistic and
cultural identities.
In Spain the status of “comunidades autónomas” has been accorded to the Basque country,
Catalonia, Galicia and 14 other entities. These
communities have been granted a broad, and
widely varying, range of autonomous powers in
such areas as culture, education, language and
economy. The three historic regions were given
distinct areas of autonomy and self-rule. The
Basque communities and Navarra have been
granted explicit tax and expenditure powers beyond those of other autonomous communities.
Spain’s willingness to accommodate the distinct
demands of its regions has helped to mitigate conflicts and separatist movements. Such proactive
interventions have helped to foster acceptance of
multiple identities and to marginalize the exclusive ones—identities solely as Basque, Galician,
Catalan or Spanish (see feature 3.1).
Many federations have failed, however.12
Federal arrangements that attempted to create
ethnically “pure” mono-national subterritories
have broken down in many parts of the world.
Yugoslavia is a prominent example. The federal
arrangements were not democratic. The units
in the federation had been “put together” and
were ruled with highly unequal shares of political and economic power among the key groups,
an arrangement that fostered ethnic conflict that
eventually became territorial conflict, and the
federation fell apart. This collapse is sometimes
attributed to a flawed federal design that failed
to establish free and democratic processes and
institutions through which ethnic groups could
articulate multiple identities and build complementarity. Instead it reinforced demands for
separation, thus ending in political disintegration.

Several models of
multicultural democracies
provide effective
mechanisms of power
sharing between
culturally diverse groups

51

The success of federal
arrangements depends on
careful design and the
political will to enhance
the system’s democratic
functioning

The success of federal arrangements depends on careful design and the political will to
enhance the system’s democratic functioning.
What matters is whether the arrangements accommodate important differences, yet buttress
national loyalties. For example, federal structures
that merely respond to demands for the designation of “exclusive” or “mono-national” homerepublics for ethnic groups may go against the
idea of multiple and complementary identities.
Such political deals, and communal concessions
that do not foster loyalty to common institutions,
can introduce divisive tendencies in the polity,
which present ongoing challenges, as in the case
of Nigeria (box 3.2).
In addition, history shows that asymmetric
federalism, introduced early enough, can help reduce the likelihood of violent secessionist movements. The avoidance of violent conflict through
various federal arrangements introduced in the
early stages of emerging secessionist movements

is often worth much more than the administrative costs that such arrangements incur.13
Many states fear that self-rule or “home rule”
could undermine their unity and integrity. Yet
many states have granted territorial autonomy
without negative consequences. These efforts to
enhance group representation and participation
have sometimes staved off political violence and
secessionist movements. For example, after
decades-long struggle, the First Nations people
of northern Canada negotiated a political agreement14 with the federal government to create
the self-governing territory of Nunavut in 1999.15
In Panama several indigenous people—the Bri
Bri, Bugle, Embera, Kuna, Naso, Ngobe and
Wounaan—have constituted semiautonomous regions governed by local councils.
Article 1 of the International Covenant on
Civil and Political Rights expresses the world’s
agreement that “All peoples have the right of
self-determination. By virtue of that right they

BOX 3.2

The challenge of federalism: Nigeria’s troubled political trajectory and prospects
Nigeria is home to more than 350 ethnic groups,
but more than half the country’s 121 million
people belong to three main groups: the HausaFulani, Muslims in the north; the Yoruba, followers of both Christian and Islamic faiths, in the
South-West; and the Igbo, most of whom are
Christians, in the South-East. Smaller groups
have tended to cluster around these three groups,
creating unstable and ethnically divisive politics.
Africa’s largest country has had a troubled
political history marked by military coups and
failed civilian governments. The country has
had military governments for 28 of its 44 years
of independence. Nigeria is attempting to ensure
that its return to civilian rule after 16 years of dictatorship under the Abacha regime will be a
genuine process of democratic consolidation.
The 1999 Constitution addresses the two
concerns of an excessively powerful centre and
parochial concerns at the state levels, as well as
the unhealthy dynamic of patronage, rent-seeking
and competition between these levels. It has instituted several reforms, including:
• Gradually dissolving the three federal regimes
inherited from the colonial era and replacing
them with a decentralized system of 36 states
and 775 local governments. The three regions were transformed into four in 1963.
The 4 regions became 12 states in 1967, 19 in

•

1976, 21 in 1987, 30 in 1991 and 36 in 1999.
The hope was that this would encourage more
flexible ethnic loyalties and alliances. More immediately, this expanding federal structure has
helped contain local ethnic disputes, diffusing the power of the three major ethnic groups
and preventing the absolute domination of the
more than 350 smaller minority groups.
Devising electoral rules to produce governments that would enjoy broadly national
and majority support. In the elections for the
Second Republic of 1979–83, a presidential candidate with a plurality of the votes
could be declared winner only after obtaining at least 25% of the votes in two-thirds of
the states. The 1999 Constitution updated
the threshold rule: to compete for the elections a party must secure at least 5% of the
votes cast in at least 25 of the 36 states in local
government elections. While the threshold
rule relating to party formation was rescinded
in 2003, the threshold rule for declaring a
party the winner, and thus for forming a
government, still holds, encouraging the formation of multi-ethnic parties. Many other
issues of federal relations introduced by the
1999 Constitution continue to be hotly contested, including those on revenues, property
rights, legal codes and states’ prerogatives.

•

Instituting affirmative action policies in education and the civil service. This has come
to include rotation of the presidency among
six geopolitical zones: north-west, northeast, north-central, south-west, south-east
and south-central and appointment of at
least one federal minister from each of the
36 states according to the zoning principle.
These measures provide a functional framework for economic distribution that tries to
avoid unitary and centralizing excesses and
domination by the centre.
The return of democracy has reanimated regional, ethnic, religious and local identities and
intensified communal mobilization. This has
led to the social violence that has engulfed the
country since the return to civilian rule, whereas
previously such conflicts were coercively suppressed by the military regimes. Political stability
in Nigeria is still threatened by massive structural socio-economic inequalities between the
North and South, the high level of state dependence on federally collected oil revenues
and the intense competition and corruption of
public life linked to its distribution—and the
unresolved question of rotating the presidency
between the six ethno-political zones, which
has incited violence and ethnic cleavages. The
challenges are tremendous—and ongoing.

Source: Bangura 2004; Lewis 2003; Rotimi 2001.

52

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

freely determine their political status and freely
pursue their economic, social and cultural development”. The application of this principle to
people within independent states and to indigenous people remains controversial. The
constitutions of such countries as Mexico and
the Philippines have taken some steps to recognize the rights of indigenous people to selfdetermination, but others avoid it.
One of the legal instruments indigenous
people have used to mobilize around these issues
is the International Labour Organization’s
Convention (169) Concerning Indigeonous and
Tribal Peoples in Independent Countries, passed
in 1989 and open for ratification since 1990.16
As of 2003 it had only 17 signatories—Argentina,
Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Costa Rica, Denmark,
Dominica, Ecuador, Fiji, Guatemala, Honduras,
Mexico, the Netherlands, Norway, Paraguay,
Peru and Venezuela.17 Chile’s Congress has
voted against several initiatives in this direction.
The Organization of Africa Unity approved the
African Charter on Human and People’s Rights,
but nowhere is the term “people” defined.
Another sign that these struggles for cultural
recognition have entered the global debate is the
recent meetings of the Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues at the United Nations. Political
developments seem to be concentrated in regions
of the world that have explicitly recognized
claims of indigenous people, who have mobilized
to contest their exclusion. Some see such mobilizations as politically disruptive—as their violent and reactionary versions can be—but these
movements also reflect greater awareness of
cultural liberty. States can no longer afford to
ignore or suppress these claims.
There have been some imaginative initiatives
to grant autonomy and self-rule, especially when
groups extend across national boundaries. An
example is the Council for Cooperation on Sami
issues set up jointly by Finland, Norway and
Sweden.
POWER

SHARING THROUGH CONSOCIATION :

PROPORTIONALITY AND REPRESENTATIVE
ELECTORAL ARRANGEMENTS

Consociation applies the principle of proportionality in four key areas: through executive

BUILDING MULTICULTURAL DEMOCRACIES

power sharing, proportional representation in
electoral systems, provisions for cultural autonomy, and safeguards in the form of mutual
vetoes. These instruments can help to prevent
one segment of society from imposing its views
on another. In their most effective form they can
help to reflect the diverse cultural composition
of a society in its state institutions. Consociation
arrangements are sometimes criticized as undemocratic because they are seen as an instrument of elite dominance, through the co-option
of opposition or vulnerable groups.18 But they
need not involve a “grand coalition” of parties:
they require only cross-community representation in the executive and legislature. The challenge is to ensure that neither self-rule (for
minorities) nor shared rule (of the state as a
whole) outweighs the other. These arrangements also have to be addressed through prudent and responsible politics.
This section focuses on two mechanisms of
consociations—executive power sharing and
proportional representation—that prevent the
dominance of a majority community.19 From a
constitutional point of view measures that privilege minorities in election procedures raise
questions of equal treatment. But small and
scattered minorities do not stand a chance of
being represented in majoritarian democracies
without assistance. Executive power sharing
can protect their interests. Proportionality in
such political and executive arrangements mirrors the diverse composition of society in its
state institutions.
Belize, Guyana, Suriname, and Trinidad
and Tobago have long used power-sharing
mechanisms to address racial and ethnic divisions, with varying success.20 The mechanisms
involve elements of autonomy (self-government
for each community) and integration (joint government of all the communities). Political power
is shared in executives, in legislatures and (in
principle) in judiciaries.21
Care has to be taken to ensure that a minority’s potential for winning the appropriate number of seats is not sabotaged—as in Northern
Ireland. During the era of “home rule” from
1920 to 1972 constituencies were repeatedly gerrymandered to the disadvantage of the Catholic
nationalist parties and others and in favour of the

Another sign that these
struggles for cultural
recognition have entered
the global debate is the
recent meetings of the
Permanent Forum on
Indigenous Issues at the
United Nations

53

Exclusion may be less
direct and perhaps even
unintended, as when the
public calendar does not
recognize a minority’s
religious holidays

54

dominant Ulster Unionist Party, which governed
uninterrupted, often without taking the interests
of the nationalist minority into account. This
eventually provoked a long-lasting reaction of
conflict and violence. The Good Friday Agreement of 1998 sought to avoid repeating this history. The agreement calls for key decisions at the
Assembly of Northern Ireland to be decided on
a “cross-community basis”. This requires either
parallel consent of both blocs independently or
in a weighted majority of 60% of votes, with
40% of voting members of each bloc.22 The idea
is that no important decision can be taken without some support from both sides, providing a
framework for negotiation.
In Belgium the Assembly and Senate are
divided into language groups—one Dutch- and
one French-speaking group, with the Germanspeaking group defined as a part of the French
group. Certain key questions have to be decided by a majority in each group and by an overall majority of two-thirds of votes. In majoritarian
democracy the majority rules; in consociational
democracies power-sharing majorities from all
groups rule.
Proportional representation, another instrument of consociation, allows each significant
community to be represented politically in rough
accord with its share of the population, particularly when parties are ethnically based. Even
when they are not, proportional representation
provides greater incentives for political parties
to seek votes from dispersed groups who do
not form majorities in any particular geographical constituency—and this also boosts minority representation. Proportional representation
does not guarantee successful accommodation,
and a winner-takes-all system can sometimes
be compatible with multinational and multilingual federations, as Canada and India have
demonstrated. But both countries also use other
measures to ensure political representation for
various groups, and winner-takes-all systems
can also lead to tyrannies of the majority.
None of the many electoral rules of proportional representation provide perfect proportionality. But they can address the problem
of winner-takes-all systems and enable greater
representation of minorities and other groups,
as shown in the impact of recent reforms in

New Zealand (box 3.3).23 Proportional representation is most effective in stable democracies
and can remedy some of the major deficiencies
of majoritarian electoral systems by strengthening
the electoral voice of minorities. Proportional
representation is not the sole solution in all circumstances. Innovations in winner-takes-all systems can also bolster the voice of minorities,
though such arrangements are considerably
more difficult to engineer.
Other approaches to ensuring representation of cultural minorities include reserving seats
for certain groups, as New Zealand does for the
Maoris,24 India for scheduled tribes and castes and
Croatia for Hungarians, Italians, Germans and
others. Reserved seats and quotas are sometimes
criticized because they “fix” peoples’ identities and
preferences in the electoral mechanism. And
negotiating quotas and reservations can lead to
conflict and grievances. In Lebanon Muslim grievances over a quota of 6:5 seats in the parliament
between Christians and Muslims, fixed on the
basis of the 1932 census, became an important
source of tension and led to civil war when the
demographic weight of the two communities
changed.25 These approaches can be more problematic than proportional electoral systems, which
leave people free to choose their identifications.
POLICIES ON RELIGION AND RELIGIOUS
PRACTICE

As chapter 2 shows, many religious minorities
around the world suffer various forms of exclusion. In some cases this is due to explicit
discrimination against a religious minority—a
problem particularly common in non-secular
countries where the state has the task of upholding and promoting an established religion. But
in other cases the exclusion may be less direct and
perhaps even unintended, as when the public
calendar does not recognize a minority’s religious
holidays, or the dress codes in public institutions
conflict with a minority’s religious dress, or state
rules on marriage and inheritance differ from
those of a minority religion, or zoning regulations conflict with a minority’s burial practices.
These sorts of conflicts can arise even in secular
states. Given the profound importance of religion
to people’s identities, it is not surprising that

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

BOX 3.3

Proportional representation or winner takes all? New Zealand makes a switch
Majoritarian democracies have a dismal record
on political participation by minorities, underrepresenting them and marginalizing their electoral voice. How can multicultural societies be
more inclusive and ensure adequate participation
of minorities and other marginalized cultural
groups? One way is through proportional representation rather than winner-takes-all systems.
In winner-takes-all (also called first-past-thepost) systems, the political party with the most
votes gets a majority of the legislative seats. In
the United Kingdom, for example, a party can
(and often does) win less than 50% of the vote
but gets a much bigger share of seats in the
House of Commons. In the 2001 election the
Labour party won 41% of the vote and walked
away with 61% of the seats. In the same election
Liberal Democrats received 19.4% of the vote but
only 7.5% of the seats. In proportional representation systems legislatures are elected from
multiseat districts in proportion to the number
of votes received: 20% of the popular vote wins
20% of the seats.
Because winner-takes-all systems exclude
those who do not support the views of the party
in power, they do not lend themselves to culturally inclusive environments. But in proportional representation systems parties that get a
significant number of votes are likely to get a
share of power. As a rule, then, proportional representation voting systems provide a more accurate reflection of public opinion and are likely
to foster the inclusion of minorities (as long as
minorities organize themselves in political form).

Several multicultural states rely on proportional
representation systems, including Angola, Bosnia
and Herzegovina, Guyana and Latvia. In Western Europe 21 of 28 countries use some form of
proportional representation.
Critics of proportional representation argue
that the incorporation of fragmented groups
could lead to unstable, inefficient governments,
with shifting coalitions; Italy is often cited. But
such problems are neither endemic nor insurmountable. Indeed, several mechanisms can prevent stalemates and deadlocks. For example,
instituting minimum vote requirements, as in
Germany, or changing the number of districts
to reflect the geographic dispersion of public
opinion can alleviate these problems while maintaining inclusive legislative systems. And stalemate and deadlock may be preferable to a
minority imposing its will on the majority—as
often happens with governments elected under
winner-takes-all systems.
Others resist these policies on grounds that
such changes would entail tremendous upheavals
and political instability—as feared by the political elite in many Latin American countries
where indigenous populations are increasingly
demanding greater political voice and representation. However, this argument cannot be
used to defend policies that result in the continued exclusion of certain groups and sections.
Transitions to prudent politics that encourage
greater participation and enable more effective
representation are possible, as the experiences
of other democratic countries show.

Largely to address the underrepresentation
of the indigenous Maori population, New
Zealand in 1993 voted to undertake a major
electoral reform, from winner takes all to proportional representation. Colonial legislation
dating to 1867 assigned 4 of the 99 seats in government to the Maori, far short of their 15%
share in the population. Voters chose a mixedmember proportional system, a hybrid in which
half the legislative seats come from single-seat,
winner-takes-all districts and half are allocated
according to the percentage of votes won by
each party.
New Zealand also incorporated a “dual
constituency” system in which individuals of
Maori descent were given the option of voting
either for an individual from the Maori roll or
for an individual on the general electoral roll.
Maori seats are allocated based on the Maori census and by the proportion of Maori individuals
who choose to register on the Maori roll.
New Zealand’s first election under proportional representation (in 1996) was difficult.
A majority coalition did not form for nine
months, and public opinion swayed back in
favour of the winner-takes-all system. But the
1999 and 2002 elections ran smoothly, restoring
public support for proportional representation.
Maori political representation increased from
around 3% in 1993 to almost 16% in 2002. Despite problems along the way it is clear that electoral transition went a long way towards
improving the representation of the Maori population in New Zealand.

Source: O’Leary 2004; Boothroyd 2004; Nagel 2004.

religious minorities often mobilize to contest
these exclusions. If not managed properly, these
mobilizations can become violent. So it is vital for
states to learn how to manage these claims.
The state is responsible for ensuring policies
and mechanisms that protect individual choice.
This is best achieved when public institutions do
not discriminate between believers and non-believers, not just among followers of different religions. Secular principles have been proven to
work best towards these goals, but no one single model of secularism is demonstrably better
than others in all circumstances. Various links between state and religious authorities have evolved
over time. Similarly, states that profess to be secular do so differently both in principle and in
practice. And these differences have implications

BUILDING MULTICULTURAL DEMOCRACIES

for the state’s ability to protect individual choice
and religious freedoms (box 3.4).
Sometimes problems arise because of too
many formal links between regions and the state
or too much influence by religious authorities
in matters of state. This can happen when, say,
a small clerical elite controls the institutions of
the state in accord with what it considers divinely
commissioned laws, as in Afghanistan under
the Taliban. These politically dominant religious elites are unlikely to tolerate internal differences, let alone dissent, and unlikely to extend
freedoms even to their own members outside the
small ruling elite, much less to members of
other religious groups. Such states do not accommodate other religious groups or dissenters
or treat them equally.

55

BOX 3.4

The many forms of secular and non-secular states and their effects on religious freedom
States have treated religion in different ways.
Non-secular states
A non-secular state extends official recognition
to specific religions and can assume different
forms depending on its formal and substantive
links with religious authority.
• A state governed by divine law—that is, a
theocracy, such as the Islamic Republic of
Iran run by ayatollahs or Afghanistan under
the Taliban.
• A state where one religion benefits from
a formal alliance with the government—
that is, having an “established” religion.
Examples include Islam in Bangladesh,
Libya and Malaysia; Hinduism in Nepal;
Catholicism in Argentina, Bolivia and
Costa Rica; and Buddhism in Bhutan,
Burma and Thailand.
• A state that has an established church or
religion, but that nonetheless respects
more than one religion, that recognizes
and perhaps attempts to nurture all religions without any preference of one over
the other. Such states may levy a religious
tax on all citizens and yet grant them the
freedom to remit the tax money to religious
organizations of their choice. They may financially assist schools run by religious
institutions but in a non-discriminatory
way. Examples of such states include Sweden and the United Kingdom. Both are virtually secular and have established religions
only in name. Other examples of this pattern of non-secular states are Denmark,
Iceland and Norway.

Anti-religious, secular states
The state excludes religion from its own affairs
without excluding itself from the affairs of religion. In such a state the right to religious freedom is very limited, and often the state intervenes
to restrict religious freedoms and practice. Communist regimes in China and former communist
regimes in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe
are examples.
Neutral or disengaged states
There are two ways of expressing this kind of neutrality. The state may profess a policy of “mutual
exclusion”, or the “strict separation of religion
and state”. This means that not only does the state
prevent religious authorities from intervening in
the affairs of state, but the state also avoids interfering in the internal affairs of religious groups.
One consequence of this mutual exclusion is
that the state may be unable or unwilling to interfere in practices designated as “religious” even
when they threaten individual rights and democratic values. Or the state may have a policy of
neutrality towards all religions. The clearest examples are the state of Virginia (after the disestablishment of the Anglican Church in 1786), the
United States (particularly after the First Amendment to its Constitution in 1791) and France, especially after the Separation Law of 1905.
Secular states asserting equal respect and
principled distance
The state is secular, in the sense that it does not
have an established church and does not promote
one religion over others, but rather accords equal
respect to all religions (and to non-believers).

However, it is willing to defend universal principles of human rights and equal citizenship and is
able to intervene in the internal affairs of religious groups in what can be called “principled distance”. This engagement may take the form of
even-handed support for religions (such as public funding of religious schools or state recognition of religious personal law) or even of
intervention to monitor and reform religious practices that contradict human rights (such as regulating religious schools or reforming personal
laws to ensure gender equality). With principled
distance, whether the state intervenes or refrains
from interfering depends on what measures really
strengthen religious liberty and equality of citizenship. The state may not relate to every religion
in exactly the same way or intervene to the same
degree or in the same manner. But it ensures that
the relations between religious and political institutions are guided by consistent, non-sectarian
principles of liberty and human rights.
An example is the secular design in the Indian Constitution. While the growth of communal violence makes observers skeptical of the
secular credentials of Indian politicians these
days, the Constitution established India as a secular state. It was this policy of secularism with
principled distance that enabled the Indian state
in the early years after independence to recognize the customary laws, codes and practices of
minority religious communities and enable their
cultural integration. It enabled positive interventions upholding principles of equality and liberty by reforming a range of customary practices,
such as prohibiting erstwhile “untouchables”
from entering temples.

Source: Bhargava 2004.

In other instances the state may profess neutrality and purportedly exclude itself from matters of religion and exclude religion from matters
of state—a policy of “mutual exclusion”. But in
reality this stance may become distorted through
policies that are blind to actual violations of religious freedoms or through ad hoc interventions
motivated by political expedience.
Whatever the historical links with religion,
states have a responsibility to protect rights and
secure freedoms for all their members and not
discriminate (for or against) on grounds of
religion. It is difficult to propose an optimal
design for the relations between state institutions
and religious authority. But non-discriminatory

56

states should protect three dimensions of religious freedom and individual choice:
• Every individual or sect within a religious
group should have the right to criticize, revise or challenge the dominance of a particular interpretation of core beliefs. All
religions have numerous interpretations and
practices—they are multivocal—and no single interpretation should be sponsored by the
state. Clergy or other religious hierarchies
should have the same status as other citizens
and should not claim greater political or
societal privilege.
• States must give space to all religions for interfaith discussion and, within limits, for

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

critiques. People of one religion must be allowed to be responsibly critical of the practices and beliefs of other religions.
• Individuals must be free not only to criticize
the religion into which they are born, but to
reject it for another or to remain without one.
Some challenges to secularism arise from a
country’s historical links with religion or from
the legacy of colonialism. The British divideand-rule policies in South Asia, which attempted to categorize religious and cultural
identities, fixing their relative positions in the
polity and in society, have been a source of
continuing political conflict even after the territorial partitions in the region.26 These historically entrenched divisions remain as serious
barriers to secular policies in a region that has
witnessed so much communal trauma. The
Spanish colonial rulers, with their historical
links with the Catholic Church, left a legacy of
similar links between state and church in their
former colonies, especially in Latin America,
with implications for concerns of gender equality, among others.

Sometimes this historical baggage appears
in contemporary dilemmas—of whether to recognize different religious laws in a democratic
environment where all citizens have equality
before the law. As the ongoing discussions on
the uniform civil code in India demonstrates, the
arguments for women’s rights and principles of
equality get entangled with concerns for minority rights and cultural recognition (box 3.5).
Building consensus on these issues to advance
universal principles of human rights, gender
equality and human development has to be the
guiding principle for resolving them.27

The arguments for
women’s rights and

POLICIES ON CUSTOMARY LAW AND LEGAL

principles of equality get

PLURALISM

entangled with concerns

Certain religious and ethnic minorities and indigenous groups feel alienated from the larger
legal system, for a number of reasons. In some
countries judges and other court officials have
historically been prejudiced against them, or
ignorant of their conditions, resulting in the
unfair and biased application of the law. In

for minority rights and
cultural recognition

BOX 3.5

Hindu and Muslim personal law: the ongoing debate over a uniform civil code
Legal pluralism and legal universalism are hotly
debated in India today. Should a single legal
system apply to members of all communities?
The differences highlight the apparent contradiction of the constitutional recognition of Hindu
and Muslim personal laws and the parallel constitutional commitment to a uniform civil code.
The debate is thus embedded in larger concerns
about India as a multicultural secular state.
Personal laws, specific to different religious
communities, govern marriage, divorce, guardianship, adoption, inheritance and succession. They
vary widely between and even within the same
community. Court cases involving personal law
also raise their own more particular issues, sometimes pitting minority religious groups’ rights
against women’s rights.
The debate over personal laws often comes
down to the following:
• Gender equality—how patriarchal customs and laws, be they Hindu or Muslim,
treat men and women differently in terms
of their legal entitlements.
• Cultural freedoms and minority rights—
whether the state should reserve the right to

intervene in matters of religious practice to
assert liberty and equality while protecting
the right of groups to practice their religion.
It is important to understand the debate in
historical context. India’s leadership at independence was committed to a secular India, not
just a state for its Hindu majority. This was politically imperative given the fears of the Muslim
minority immediately after the brutal partition
of the subcontinent. The Indian Constitution
recognized and accommodated its colonially inherited system of legal pluralism as its multicultural reality. The ultimate goal of a unified civil
code was included in the Constitution, and the
Special Marriages Act of 1954 offered couples a
non-religious alternative to personal laws.
A brief scan of legal developments over the
1980s and 1990s highlights how the argument for
uniformity has overlooked concerns for
equality—and how the secular agenda has been
depicted as being antithetical to the principle of
special recognition of the cultural rights of minorities. The ongoing debate is important because of the contemporary political context.
Supporters of the code assert principles of

equality before the law, but fail to appreciate the
difficult position of minorities. This is particularly relevant in the light of growing communal
tensions. The Muslim minority often views the
code as an underhand abrogation of their cultural freedom.
Personal laws of all communities have been
criticized for disadvantaging women, and there
are strong arguments for reforming almost all traditional (and usually patriarchal) laws and customs in the country, bringing Hindu and Muslim
personal or customary laws in line with gender
equality and universal human rights. But implementing equality—an objective that is central
to concerns of human development—is not the
same as implementing uniformity.
What is needed is internal reform of all customary laws, upholding gender equality rather
than imposing identical gender-biased, prejudicial laws across all communities. Crucial in
this is a genuine effort to establish consensus on
the code. Legislation imposing uniformity will
only widen the majority-minority divide—
detrimental both for communal harmony and for
gender equality.

Source: Engineer 2003; Mody 2003; Rudolph 2001.

BUILDING MULTICULTURAL DEMOCRACIES

57

All legal systems must
conform to international
standards of human
rights, including gender
equality

many countries indigenous people are almost entirely unrepresented in the judiciary. This reality of bias and exclusion is exacerbated by the
inaccessibility of the legal system to these groups
for additional reasons, including geographical
distance, financial cost and language or other cultural barriers.
Plural legal systems can counter this exclusion. But some critics argue that plural legal
systems can legitimize traditional practices that
are inconsistent with expansion of freedoms.
Many traditional practices reject the equality of
women, for example, in property rights, inheritance, family law and other realms.28 But legal
pluralism does not require the wholesale adoption of all practices claimed to be “traditional”.
The accommodation of customary law cannot
be seen as an entitlement to maintain practices
that violate human rights, no matter how “traditional” or “authentic” they may claim to be.29
From a human development perspective all
legal systems—whether unitary or plural—must
conform to international standards of human
rights, including gender equality. Other critics
therefore argue that if the legal system of the
larger society respects human rights norms, and
if indigenous people accept these norms, there
is no need to maintain legal pluralism. But even
where there is a consensus on human rights
norms, there may still be a valuable role for
legal pluralism.
Plural legal systems exist in almost all societies, evolving as local traditions were historically
accommodated along with other formal systems of jurisprudence.30 Customary practices,
which acquired the force of law over time, coexisted alongside introduced systems of jurisprudence. Such legal pluralism often had
roots in the colonial logic of protection of minority rights, which allowed certain customary
systems to continue while imposing the colonizer’s own laws.

manipulation and control. An added complication in separating authentic from imposed
practices is that colonial rule and its “civilizing
mission” unilaterally claimed responsibility for
introducing modern values, beliefs and institutions to the colonies.31
In Africa European colonialists introduced
their own metropolitan law and system of courts.
But they retained much customary law and
many elements of the African judicial process
that they deemed consistent with their sense of
justice and morality. Western-type courts were
presided over by expatriate magistrates and
judges whose jurisdiction extended over all persons, African and non-African, in criminal and
civil matters. Often referred to as “general
courts”, they applied European law and local
statutes based on European practices. A second
group of “native-authority courts” or “African
courts” or “people’s courts” comprised either
traditional chiefs or local elders. These courts
had jurisdiction over only Africans and for the
most part applied the prevailing customary law.
Throughout Malawi’s colonial history, for example, jurisdiction over Africans was left to the
traditional courts for cases involving customary
law and for simple criminal cases.32
Towards the end of the colonial period, officials began to integrate the dual courts system,
with the general courts supervising the workings
of the customary courts. The Anglophone
colonies retained much of the dual legal structure created during colonial rule while attempting to reform and adapt customary law to
notions of English law. Francophone and Lusophone colonies tried to absorb customary law
into the general law. Ethiopia and Tunisia abolished some aspects of customary law. But in no
African country, either during or after the colonial era, has customary law been totally disregarded or proscribed.
CUSTOMARY

COLONIAL

CONSTRUCTIONS , YET

LAW CAN PROMOTE ACCESS TO

JUSTICE SYSTEMS

CONTEMPORARY REALITIES

The colonial imprint can be marked. Indeed, it
often is difficult to determine which legal
processes are genuinely traditional and which
can be seen as a hybrid by-product of colonial

58

Accommodating customary law can help protect the rights of indigenous people and ensure a fairer application of the rule of law.
Efforts to accord public recognition to customary law can help create a sense of inclusion

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

in the wider society. Often the most pragmatic
case for customary law, especially in parts of
failed states, is that the choice is between customary law and no law. Recognizing the ability of indigenous people to adopt and administer
their own laws is also a repudiation of historic
prejudice—and can be an important part of
self-government for indigenous people.33
Countries from Australia to Canada to
Guatemala to South Africa have recognized
legal pluralism. In Australia there has been a renewed focus on recognizing Aboriginal and
Torres Strait Islander customary law, which has
opened the way to indigenous community mechanisms of justice, aboriginal courts, greater regional autonomy and indigenous governance. In
Canada most local criminal matters are dealt
with by the indigenous community so that the
accused can be judged by jurors of peers who
share cultural norms. In Guataemala the 1996
peace accords acknowledged the need to recognize Mayan law as an important part of genuine reform (box 3.6).
In post-apartheid South Africa a groundswell of innovation is instilling new authority, resources and dignity into customary law. The
aim is to rebuild trust in the criminal justice system and respect for the rule of law and to recognize customary laws. The challenge lies in
integrating common and customary law in line
with the new constitution, enshrining such principles as gender equality. This harmonization
process marks a major step in South Africa’s
enormous task of legal reform. The first step was
repealing apartheid laws. Next was reconstituting the Law Commission, dominated by conservative judges of the old regime. Now South
Africa must shape new laws to govern a new social order.
Customary law is often the only form of
justice known to many South Africans. About
half the population lives in the countryside,
where traditional courts administer customary
law in more than 80% of villages.34 These courts,
also found in some urban townships, deal with
petty theft, property disagreements and domestic affairs—from marriage to divorce to inheritance. Justice is swift and cheap as the courts
are run with minimal formalities in venues close
to the disputants’ homes and charge less than

BUILDING MULTICULTURAL DEMOCRACIES

a dollar for a hearing. The judges use everyday
language, and the rules of evidence allow the
community to interject and question testimony.
The system has its critics—particularly
women, who are barred from serving as judges
and are often discriminated against as litigants.
Even so, women’s groups, under the umbrella
of the Rural Women’s Movement, are on the
vanguard of efforts to recognize customary law
and adapt it to post-apartheid society. They are
leading discussions about how to elevate customary law and make it fairer to women.
Still a concern, therefore, is how customary
law compromises or ensures human rights standards.35 Any legal system—conventional or
customary—is open to criticism over its formulation. A legal tradition is a set of deeply rooted,
historically conditioned attitudes about the nature of law, about the role of law in society,
about the proper organization and operation of
a legal system and about the way law should be
made, applied, studied, perfected and taught.

Accommodating
customary law can help
protect the rights of
indigenous people and
ensure a fairer application
of the rule of law

BOX 3.6

Access to justice and cultural recognition in Guatemala
For the more than 500 years since the arrival
of the Spanish conquistadors Guatemala’s indigenous people have suffered violent subordination and exclusion. The armed internal
conflict that lasted from 1960 until the signing of the peace accords in 1996 was particularly devastating. Indigenous people,
constituting more than half the population,
endured massacres and gross violations of
human rights. The military dictatorship of
1970–85 undermined the independence of
local community authorities.
Little surprise, then, that rural communities lost faith in the judicial system and
the rule of law. Public lynchings became
the alternative to the formal justice system,
notorious for its inability to sentence the
perpetrators of crimes and its tendency to
release criminals through a corrupt bail tradition. The political establishment cynically
misrepresents the lynchings as the traditional practices of indigenous people.
The 1996 accords acknowledged the
need for genuine reform with commitments
to acknowledge traditional Mayan law and
authority. The Accord on Indigenous Identity and Rights, for example, states that “the
lack of knowledge by the national legislative

body of the customary norms that regulate
indigenous community life as well as the
lack of access that the indigenous population has to the resources of the national justice system, have caused negation of rights,
discrimination and marginalization”.
The government and the opposition
have agreed to:
• Recognize the management of internal
issues of the indigenous communities
according to their own judicial norms.
• Include cultural considerations in the
practice of law.
• Develop a permanent programme for
judges and members of the Public Ministry on the culture and identity of indigenous people.
• Ensure free judicial advisory services
for people with limited resources.
• Offer free services for interpretation of
judicial proceedings into indigenous
languages.
These developments are first steps in
acknowledging the distinct cultures of indigenous people in Guatemala. The challenge now is to develop the customary
systems in a way consistent with human
rights and gender equality.

Source: Buvollen 2002.

59

POLICIES ON THE USE OF MULTIPLE LANGUAGES

Language conflicts can be
managed by providing
some spheres in which
minority languages are
used freely and by giving
incentives to learn other
languages, especially a
national or official
language

60

By choosing one or a few languages over others, a state often signals the dominance of those
for whom the official language is their mother
tongue. This choice can limit the freedom of
many non-dominant groups—feeding intergroup tensions (see chapter 2). It becomes a way
of excluding people from politics, education, access to justice and many other aspects of civic
life. It can entrench socio-economic inequalities
between groups. It can become a divisive political issue, as in Sri Lanka where, in place of
English, Sinhala (spoken by the majority) was
made the only official language in 1956 despite
the opposition of the Tamil minority, who
wanted both Sinhala and Tamil recognized.
While it is possible and even desirable for a
state to remain “neutral” on ethnicity and religion, this is impractical for language. The citizenry
needs a common language to promote mutual understanding and effective communication. And
no state can afford to provide services and official documents in every language spoken on its
territory. The difficulty, however, is that most
states, especially in the developing world and
Eastern Europe, are multilingual—and they are
the focus of much of the discussion here. Once
again, multicultural policies are needed.
In multilingual societies plural language
policies provide recognition to distinct linguistic groups. Plural language policies safeguard the
parallel use of two or more languages by saying,
in essence, “Let us each retain our own language in certain spheres, such as schools and universities, but let us also have a common language
for joint activities, especially in civic life.”
Language conflicts can be managed by providing some spheres in which minority languages
are used freely and by giving incentives to learn
other languages, especially a national or official
language. This can be promoted by an appropriate social reward structure, such as by making facility in a national language a criterion for
professional qualification and promotion.
There is no universal “right to language”.36
But there are human rights with an implicit
linguistic content that multilingual states must acknowledge in order to comply with their international obligations under such instruments as

the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. Especially important are the rights to
freedom of expression and equality. Freedom of
expression and the use of a language are inseparable. This is the most obvious example of the
importance of language in matters of law. For example, until 1994 members of the Kurd minority in Turkey were prohibited by law from using
their language in public. Reform of this law was
an important element in the government’s response to the demands of the Kurdish minority.
In 2002 the Turkish Parliament passed legislation allowing private institutions to teach the
language of the sizeable Kurdish minority, and
the first Kurdish language teaching centre opened
in March 2004 in Batman, in the southeast.
Experience around the world shows that
plural language policies can expand opportunities for people in many ways, if there is a deliberate effort to teach all citizens some of the
country’s major languages (box 3.7). Very often
what multilingual countries need is a threelanguage formula (as UNESCO recommends)
that gives public recognition to the use of three
languages:
• One international language—in former colonial countries this is often the official language of administration. In this era of
globalization all countries need to be proficient in an international language to participate in the global economy and networks.
• One lingua franca—a local link language
facilitates communication between different
linguistic groups such as Swahili in East
African countries, where many other languages are also spoken.
• Mother tongue—people want and need to
be able to use their mother tongue when it
is neither the lingua franca nor the international language.
Countries need to recognize all three as official languages or at least recognize their use and
relevance in different circumstances, such as in
courts or schools. There are many versions of
such three-language formulas, depending on
the country.
The main questions that states face on language policy relate to the language of instruction in schools and the language used in
government institutions.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

BOX 3.7

Multilingual education in Papua New Guinea
Nestled between the South Pacific Ocean and
the Coral Sea, Papua New Guinea is the most
linguistically and culturally diverse nation in the
world, accounting for approximately a sixth of
the world’s 6,000 languages. A century of colonial occupation created a lingua franca, a neoMelanesian pidgin, tok pisin, derived from
English, German, Spanish, Malay and Papua
New Guinea’s own languages and spoken by
half of the population of 5 million.
To meet the needs of indigenous people for
relevant basic education, the Department of Education implemented a major education reform
in 1993, introducing mother tongue instruction
in the first three years of schooling. After that, the
medium of instruction is English. By 2001, 369 indigenous languages had been introduced in 3,600
elementary schools. A third of children now start
elementary school in their mother tongue.

No statistical study has been done, but
there is abundant anecdotal evidence that children become literate and learn English faster
and more easily when they start their schooling in their mother tongue. Access is improving, and the dropout rate, particularly of girls,
has come down. More than 70% of grade 6 students go on to grade 7, compared with less than
40% in 1992. Lower-secondary enrolments
have doubled since 1992, and upper-secondary
numbers have quadrupled. Teachers report
that children appear more self-confident and
inquisitive.
The education reform came after 20 years
of widespread public consultation, and implementation was gradual. Non-governmental organizations got grants to develop a writing
system for some languages that had never been
written before. Communities wanting to convert

their schools to the local language had to agree
to build new facilities, assist in the life of the
school or share their culture with the children.
The learning material is deliberately simple:
copies of a prototype textbook are printed with
blank lines to be filled in with the local language. Costs were kept in check by using black
and white text and soft covers. Communities
choose local people with at least a grade 10 education as teachers. They are paid less than nationally recruited certified teachers, but many
are pleased to be doing worthwhile work for a
steady income.
Papua New Guinea sought and received
large donor support from Australia to introduce the reform, but it is expected that the system will be cost-efficient and sustainable over
the longer term. Studies are under way to assess
its results.

Source: Klaus 2003; SIL International 2004a; CRIP 2004.

LANGUAGE POLICY IN SCHOOLS

Low educational attainment continues to be a
major source of exclusion for immigrants, ethnic groups and indigenous people. In such cases
offering bilingual education not only recognizes
their cultural traditions but it can also enhance
learning and reduce educational disparities—
widening people’s choices (see box 3.7).
Children learn best when they are taught in
their mother tongue, particularly in the earliest
years. Experience in many countries shows that
bilingual education, which combines instruction
in the mother tongue with teaching in the
dominant national language, can open educational and other opportunities. In the Philippines
students proficient in the two languages of the
bilingual education policy (Tagalog and English)
outperformed students who did not speak Tagalog at home. In Canada students from the
English-speaking majority in bilingual immersion programmes outperform peers in traditional programmes of learning in the second
language (French). In the United States Navajo
students instructed throughout their primary
school years in their first language (Navajo) as
well as their second language (English) outperformed their Navajo-speaking peers educated
only in English.37

BUILDING MULTICULTURAL DEMOCRACIES

In Latin America bilingualism is an established strategy for reducing the educational exclusion of indigenous children, who have the
worst education indicators. Studies in Bolivia,
Brazil, Guatemala, Mexico, Paraguay and Peru
show that providing instruction to minority
groups in their own language and using teachers from the same group is highly effective.
Bilingual education leads to much less repetition,
lower drop-out rates and higher educational
attainment among indigenous children. In
Guatemala the Q’eqchi’ communities, which
had fewer bilingual education opportunities
than three other indigenous groups surveyed,
had much higher drop-out and repetition rates.38
Studies in Africa find the same results, with
bilingual schools more effective than conventional monolingual schools, as in Burkina Faso
(table 3.1). Studies of bilingual education in
Mali, Niger, Nigeria and Zambia find that it ensures continuity among families, communities
and schools, strengthening interactions among
them. It stimulates the production of school and
cultural materials in the second language, broadening the body of knowledge and facilitating
learners’ integration into social and cultural life.
And it encourages a blending of cultures, since
it enhances the standing of both languages and
the cultures they convey. Monolingual schools,

61

TABLE 3.1

Indicators of internal output and costs of conventional and bilingual
schools in Burkina Faso
Indicator

Bilingual school

Chance of success in obtaining a
primary education certificate
72%
Average duration to gain a diploma
6 pupil years
Internal output rate (allowing for
repetition and drop-out)
68%
Annual recurrent costs (teachers, supplies,
maintenance) per student (total recurrent
costs divided by number of students)
77,447 CFA francs

Conventional
monolingual school
14%
37 pupil years
16%
104,962 CFA francs

Source: Ndoye 2003.

whether in a Western or an African language, perform much less well.39
India, too, has extensive experience with
multilingual education. For four decades it has
had a three-language formula in which each
child is taught in the official language of the state
(Bengali in West Bengal, for example), with the
two official national languages (English and
Hindi) as second and third languages. Indian
state boundaries have been drawn along linguistic lines since 1956, so each state has one
dominant state language, each with its own
script, rich vocabulary and literature going back
hundreds, if not thousands of years.
Often, bilingual education is stigmatized as
being lower in quality, especially in the country’s
economic and political activities. Bilingual education can then be thought to restrict opportunities. Surveys among Hispanics in the American
Southeast show that most prefer English-only
classes and view their children’s “restricted”
early access to English as a deprivation. Bilingualism should be introduced only where there
is demand for it. However, evidence suggests that
there is no trade-off between the two goals of
bilingual education and high quality education,
especially in teaching the dominant language.
Nor is cost a real issue. An examination of
the costs and benefits of bilingual education
for indigenous people in Guatemala estimated
that there would be a $5 million cost savings
thanks to reduced repetitions, savings equal to
the cost of providing primary education to about
100,000 students a year.40
It is true that the unit costs of producing
local language materials are often higher than
those of producing majority language materials
because of the smaller quantities. But sharing by

62

countries with the same local language can help
hold unit costs down. Costs include those for
modernizing and standardizing the orthography
of the local language and for developing materials, training teachers in their use and distributing them. These financial costs have to be
weighed against the social and political costs of
inequality and unfairness. And since local language materials are produced in small quantities, they have little effect on the average unit cost
of producing materials in all languages. In Senegal the production of materials in Wolof and
other local languages barely pushes up the
average unit cost of production of materials in
all languages since the number of French books
produced is much higher than the number of
Wolof or Pulaar language books.
Bilingual education is a long-term investment, but nowhere do the costs appear prohibitive. In Guatemala bilingual education
accounted for 0.13% of the primary education
recurrent budget, increasing the unit cost of
primary education by 9% annually (over the
traditional Spanish-only instruction system).41
In India producing materials in local languages
adds 5–10% to total recurrent cost.42 But as
noted earlier, the gains can be massive, because
of fewer dropouts and repetitions.
Most countries in Sub-Saharan Africa have
local language education in schools in the first
three grades, but after that almost all countries
use French, English or Portuguese. These
countries may find introducing local language education particularly difficult because of the many
languages spoken. But most languages are related,
and there are only 15 core language groups for
the 45 Sub-Saharan countries (box 3.8). Developing local language education would require
greater investment and regional cooperation to
standardize and develop these languages. Standardization would require translating texts into
these languages and introducing the texts to education at higher grades. These costs could be met
through some additional donor support.
Standardization of texts and translation into
the 15 core languages shared by communities
spread across several national boundaries would
help to keep costs down through economies of
scale. Cooperation among countries in the region would be required to make this work. In

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

the medium run such standardization would
help to bolster the role of these 15 core languages
as lingua franca and as the languages of the education and state administrative (legislative and
judicial) systems.
Bilingual schooling can run up against unfavourable perceptions, problems of transition
from the first language to the second and poor
follow-up, evaluation and support systems. But
most of these problems are linked to poor planning and a failure to make adjustments in curricula, teaching, training and promotion of the
use of the language in official and public
spheres.43 Once these conditions are met, bilingual strategies improve learning, contribute to
a multicultural identity and have a transforming effect on society.
Since knowledge of Western languages is
often a means of upward mobility, the goal is not
to remove Western languages, which would
narrow choices and access to international
knowledge. The goal is to give local languages
equal or superior status. This reduces the heavy
burden of repetitions and drop-outs and thus
builds human skills.
LANGUAGE

POLICY IN GOVERNMENT

INSTITUTIONS

In multilingual societies a multiple language
policy is the only way to ensure full democratic participation. Otherwise, much of a country’s population can be excluded by an inability
to speak the official language of the state. The
Malawi Parliament uses English exclusively,
and the Constitution (1994) requires all candidates standing for Parliament “to speak and
to read the English language well enough to
take an active part in the proceedings of Parliament” (see chapter 5).44 The record of parliamentary proceedings is also published in
English. The only way that people who do not
know English are informed about parliamentary proceedings is through the national radio,
which provides highly abridged versions in
Chichewa.
The exclusive use of English creates a barrier between the political elite and the masses
and reduces the pool of possible legislators. It
can particularly disadvantage women, who are

BUILDING MULTICULTURAL DEMOCRACIES

less likely to be literate or fluent in English.
Tanzania has extended political participation in
the legislature to the majority through the deliberate use of its national lingua franca,
Kiswahili.
Language policies for the judiciary should
not deny justice. The use of English as the primary language of legal discourse is common in
Anglophone Africa, where judicial systems are
based on the British legal system. This often
alienates the people from the law since most of
them have little or no facility in English.
South Africa has attempted to widen choices
for non-English and non-Afrikaans speakers by
calling for 11 constitutionally recognized official languages (since 1994)—9 indigenous, plus
English and Afrikaans. Despite an ambitious
court interpreter programme that puts most
other countries to shame, there is still a bias towards English. One study of the courts in
Qwaqwa in the Free State, a mainly Sesothospeaking area, found that even when the magistrate, the prosecutor and the defendant were
all Africans who spoke Southern Sotho as their
mother tongue, the cases were conducted “in
mediocre English with the assistance of a court
interpreter from and into Sesotho for the benefit of the defendant”.45

In multilingual societies a
multiple language policy
is the only way to ensure
full democratic
participation

BOX 3.8

How many languages are there in Africa?
85% of Africans speak 15 core languages
The profusion of languages in Africa gives the
impression of unending fragmentation. Closer
examination reveals convergences and structural similarities for superficially distinct
cultures, clans and languages. Colonial administrators and missionaries, sometimes for
administrative expediency and sometimes
for proselytizing reasons (biblical translations, in particular), elevated small dialects to
the status of languages and narrow local
groups to the status of tribes. Just as colonialera ethnologists would eagerly “discover”
tribes that were often more appropriately
parts of much larger groups, so languages in
Africa have much greater affinity to each
other than is commonly believed.
Most of what are counted as distinct languages in Africa are actually dialects of core
languages. As first, second or third language

speakers (most Africans are multilingual),
more than 75% of Africans speak 12 core
languages: Nguni, Soth-Tswana, Swahili,
Amharic, Fulful, Mandenkan, Igbo, Hausa,
Yoruba, Luo, Eastern Inter-lacustrine and
Western Interlacustrine (Kitara). Some 85%
of the African population of the continent
speak 15 core languages (the three additional languages are Somali-SamburuRendille, Oromo-Borana and Gur). Though
lexically different, these languages are similar morphologically, syntactically and
phonologically.
If linguists across national boundaries
in Sub-Saharan Africa were to work together to standardize vocabularies, it would
be possible to use these languages to teach
not just in the first three grades of primary
school, but eventually in higher grades.

Source: Prah 2004.

63

SPECIAL CONTRIBUTION
Recognition of linguistic diversity in Afghanistan’s Constitution
On 4 January 2004 Afghanistan’s new Constitution was adopted by a Loya Jirga (or grand assembly) of 502 representatives from all parts of
Afghanistan. While the adoption itself is a significant milestone achieved over the past two
years, certain aspects of the new Constitution are
particularly noteworthy. For example, in recognizing the linguistic diversity in Afghanistan,
the Constitution takes a step that is unprecedented in the history not only of Afghanistan, but
of the region as a whole.
Afghanistan has two major official languages,
Pashto and Dari, which we have proudly spoken
for centuries. The Constitution provides for the
equal application of these two languages as the
official medium of communication in all state organizations. Many state institutions will need to
work to implement this, but some, including
my own Office, do this already. It is gratifying
to me as an Afghan, and as President, to be able
to switch between Dari and Pashto when speaking publicly, as the occasion requires.
In addition to the two major official languages the delegates to the Loya Jirga agreed
to give official status to all minority languages
in the areas where these languages are spoken.

This is an important step that has precedence,
I think, only in societies that are strong and
solid. It is a powerful indication that, even
though we are a society that has just emerged
from war and disorder, we have the courage and
broadmindedness to be inclusive and to recognize diversity. It makes us proud that today
our Baluch, Nuristani, Pamiri, Pashai, Turkmen
and Uzbek fellow Afghans are enjoying the
right to use their own languages and to have
them recognized as official. I am confident that
this step will make Afghanistan a stronger nation, prouder than before, and an exemplary nation in the region.
Having taken the first step, Afghanistan
now needs to work to make the words of the
Constitution a reality. While we are confident
about the feasibility of making regional languages official in their respective regions, it is indeed not a small task to put the infrastructure
in place for this purpose. To teach people to read
and write in their mother tongue requires incorporating the language into the school curriculum. This will require changes in our
mainstream education system. We will need to
train more teachers and to print more books.

In Tanzania, by contrast, Kiswahili is the judicial language in the primary courts. Bills come
to Parliament in English but are debated in
Kiswahili, before being written into law in English. In the lower courts both English and
Kiswahili are used, but sentences are written in
English. In 1980 Kiswahili was used 80% of the
time in lower courts; only English is used in
the high court.46
In 1987 New Zealand, with a 14% indigenous Maori population, declared Maori an official language, giving any person (not just a
defendant) the right to speak Maori in any
legal proceeding, regardless of the person’s
proficiency in English.47 It is the judge’s responsibility to ensure that a competent interpreter is available. Since most Maori speak
English as their first language, this provision
views language as a right, not as a problem as
most other countries view it.
When a new language policy is being explored or implemented, a special state language
board should be created, as was done in Quebec,

64

But above all, we need to proceed carefully
to ensure that making regional languages official
contributes to national integration, rather than
reinforcing the isolation of communities. In the 21st
century, people around the world are increasingly
searching for commonalities, including commonality in language. Learning a local language should
not become a countercurrent. And it should not
reduce the quality of education for our children.
The Loya Jirga representatives ensured that
our new Constitution represents not only the
deep aspirations of the nation but also the diverse
preferences of the people of Afghanistan. Turning their vision into reality may indeed be a challenge, but it is a challenge we are confident that
we can meet. Recognizing our diversity, while affirming our nationhood, will further solidify the
foundations of a democratic Afghanistan.

Hamid Karzai
President
Transitional Islamic State of Afghanistan

Catalonia and the Baltic States. The board should
include experts to analyze the socio-lingual situation, draft policy proposals and organize language learning programmes, especially needed if
a new language policy includes language requirements for civil service jobs, licensing or
naturalization. If the state openly acknowledges
that facility in a language is required for access
to public services, it has a duty to assist and
monitor the acquisition of that language—
otherwise conflict is inevitable between the deprived and the dominant. A state language board
with expert commissions and a permanent staff
naturally requires substantial resources, as do
language learning programmes.
With new states there may be unprecedented
opportunities to resolve ethnic conflicts by negotiating an agreement that involves trade-offs
for various groups. For instance, it may be possible to negotiate more language autonomy in return for less territorial self-rule. Under the recent
Ohrid agreement the Albanians in Macedonia
gave up claims to territorial autonomy in return

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

for official-language status throughout the country. In newly independent Malaysia in 1956 the
Chinese accepted the public dominance of the
Malay language in return for a liberal naturalization policy. The Chinese diaspora safeguards
the survival of its languages by importing books,
supporting cultural associations and sending students to Chinese universities abroad. In addition,
there are still Chinese language schools where the
Chinese community can study in Chinese as the
medium of instruction. Students in these schools
are merely required to sit an examination in the
national language, Bahasa Malaysia.
In Soviet Latvia Russian was the dominant
language, and Latvian was rarely used in official
affairs. Since independence in 1991 Latvian has
become the language of state and other public
affairs. A massive state-sponsored language programme was begun so that Russian residents
could learn Latvian, in order to end a situation
in which mostly bilingual Latvians had to accommodate monolingual Russians. Russians have
been able to continue schooling in Russianlanguage public schools.
Not that tensions have completely dissipated.
There are restrictions on the use of Russian on
signs and public election posters, and there are
time quotas for Russian on radio and television.48
In addition to issues of language use in national institutions, there is also a risk that national
information media could be monopolized by
speakers of one (or two) dominant languages.
Even though most countries that gained their independence after the collapse of the Soviet
Union have large Russian majorities, nationalists attempt to protect the informational space
under their control from “foreign” influence—
that is, from the impact of Russian media—by
limiting newspapers and broadcasts in nonstate languages (Russian). That narrows people’s
choices, though satellite dishes can broaden
them by providing access to television programming in Russian.
POLICIES FOR REDRESSING
SOCIO - ECONOMIC EXCLUSION

Ethnic minorities and indigenous people are
often the poorest groups in most parts of the
world. As chapter 2 documents, they have

BUILDING MULTICULTURAL DEMOCRACIES

shorter life expectancies and lower education attainments and other social indicators. They also
are most likely to suffer socio-economic exclusion. Redressing that exclusion requires a combination of policies, including:
• Addressing unequal social investments to
achieve equality of opportunity.
• Recognizing legitimate collective claims to
land and livelihoods.
• Taking affirmative action in favour of disadvantaged groups.
But minorities are not always disadvantaged
in access to social and economic opportunities.
In fact, perhaps the most politically dangerous exclusion occurs when an ethnic minority holds a
large part of the wealth (agricultural land, key industries and services). For example, the Chinese
in Burma, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines
and Thailand own a large part of the industry in
these countries.49 Their economic dominance
has been a factor in civil conflict, for example
when the Suharto regime was replaced in Indonesia. Similarly, white settlers in southern
Africa have dominant control over agricultural
land. The response to such domination, whether
induced by the market or the colonial state, is
likely to take the form of affirmative action for the
disadvantaged majority.
ADDRESSING

In addition to issues of
language use in national
institutions, there is also a
risk that national
information media could
be monopolized by
speakers of one (or two)
dominant languages

UNEQUAL SOCIAL INVESTMENTS

TO ACHIEVE EQUALITY OF OPPORTUNITY

Policies that promote growth with equity are necessary to achieve socio-economic inclusion for
all groups. For most developing countries this
would include investing in the agricultural and
other labour-intensive sectors and broadening
access to assets, especially agricultural land. But
too often development policies become a source
of intergroup tension. In other words, development itself can create, sustain and often intensify inequalities between groups and between
individuals.
In many African countries state-based control and distribution of mineral resources became a key source of ethno-regional wealth
differentials. Thus, in Sudan the discovery and
exploitation of oil became the major source of
post-independence conflict, with the government annexing oil-bearing lands in the South.

65

In many countries public
spending in basic social
services systematically
discriminates against
minorities and
indigenous people

66

And in Nigeria the oil resources in the SouthEast and the use of oil revenues have heightened
ethnic tensions, sparking the civil war in Biafra. Botswana, by contrast, used its mineral
wealth to invest in social infrastructure and
human development—perhaps precisely because it is almost entirely made up of a single ethnic group, the Batswana.50
As noted earlier, colonial governance entrenched ethnic identities in Africa. It also promoted ethnic dominance through structures of
state power that gave predominance to some ethnic identities and not to others.51 External factors remain critical today. External forces are
usually subregional or interventions by neighbouring states, as in the Democratic Republic
of Congo, Liberia, Mozambique and Nigeria.
But developed country (often the former metropolitan country) interventions, by governments or by multinationals, are more generalized
in Africa, albeit more prominent in the mineral
resource–rich African states (Angola, Democratic Republic of Congo, Liberia, Sierra Leone).
Since international firms are usually involved in the extractive industries in most developing countries, corporations should sign
on to the “Publish what you pay” campaign—
revealing publicly what they pay to developing
country governments in the form of taxes, royalties and other fees. Such information would
make it much more difficult for developing
country governments to use the revenues and
rents from mineral resources to benefit particular ethnic groups or individuals. When such
information is publicly available, affected communities can track the flow and use of resources.
They can question whether the resources benefit only local or national elites. And they can
demand that resources also be made available
for investments in their area.
Indigenous people are more likely to be
poor than non-indigenous people (figure 3.1).
A World Bank study in Bolivia, Guatemala,
Mexico and Peru suggests that if human capital characteristics (health and education services and their use) were equalized, much of the
earnings differential between indigenous and
non-indigenous workers would disappear.52
Distance cannot excuse a failure to provide services: if logging and mining infrastructure can

be provided in the remotest corners of the Amazon basin, so can social infrastructure.53
In many countries public spending in basic
social services systematically discriminates
against minorities and indigenous people. The
low provision of services can be a result of lower
financial allocations or of distance and isolation.
Indigenous people often receive fewer health
care inputs and have worse health outcomes
than the average population. The Brazilian government spent $7 per capita on health care for
the indigenous population, compared with $33
on average for the country.54 Indigenous people may also be underserved because health infrastructure and medical personnel are
concentrated in urban areas. In South Africa race
has been associated with major differences in infant mortality rates and with enormous inequities
in the resources allocated per health intervention (figure 3.2). In Mexico there are 79 hospital beds and 96 doctors per 100,000 people on
a national level, but the number of hospital
beds falls to 8 and doctors to 14 per 100,000 in
areas where indigenous people constitute more
than two-fifths of the population.55
In Bolivia and Peru surveys show that indigenous people are more likely to have been
sick in the previous month than are nonindigenous people but are much less likely to
consult a physician.56 Poorer uptake of health
services by indigenous people may sometimes
reflect their view that the services are culturally
inappropriate because they fail to consider the
spiritual dimensions of good health or fail to incorporate their traditional medicine, based on
herbs and other plants. These issues need to be
addressed if the health of indigenous people is
to improve, and this can be done without additional financial resources.
The right to education is often also compromised for indigenous people. Bilingual education, though it can be very effective, often
remains underresourced and so of poor quality.
Indigenous children’s schooling also suffers
from a lack of school facilities in areas where they
live and a shortage of qualified teachers, partly
because indigenous education is given a lower
priority. The problem is often the low relevance
of teaching content, especially if teachers are not
drawn from indigenous communities.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

Figure

Indigenous people are more likely than non-indigenous people to be
poor in Latin America

3.1

Indigenous population, 1989–91
Non-indigenous population, 1989–91
Percent

It is not easy to universalize access to basic
services where there is ethnic fragmentation and
identities have been politicized. A study in Kenya
finds lower primary school funding in more ethnically diverse districts.57 Using a sample of US
cities, one study finds that the level and variety
of public goods provided worsens as ethnic diversity increases.58 Another US study shows that
individuals’ support for public welfare spending
increases if a larger fraction of welfare recipients
in their area belong to their racial group.59 So,
even though comparatively disadvantaged minorities or groups may need favourable public
policies to enable them to escape deprivation,
such policies may not be forthcoming because of
the absence of a national consensus and the required tax base to finance such policies.

100

87
81

79

64
54

48

50

50

18
0

Bolivia

Guatemala

Mexico

Peru

Source: Psacharapoulos and Patrinos 1994; Helwege 1995.

Figure

3.2

Non-whites benefit less than whites from public health spending
in South Africa
Mid-1990s

R ECOGNIZING

Public health expenditure
per person (rand)

LEGITIMATE CLAIMS TO LAND

AND LIVELIHOODS

Rights to traditional lands. An important political trend over the last decade has been the rise
of powerful indigenous movements around the
world—from Bolivia to Cambodia to Canada
to Ecuador. At the core of these movements is
the demand to protect indigenous people’s rights
to historic lands and mineral wealth. These claims
have to be recognized for what they are: claims
for who owns the land and the right to use its soil
and resources (water, minerals, plants, forests).
Only then can policy instruments appropriately
address the claims. Indigenous people often have
a special relationship with the land—for many it
is still their source of livelihood and sustenance
and the basis of their existence as communities.
The right to own, occupy and use land collectively
is inherent in the self-conception of indigenous
people, and this right is generally vested not in
the individual but in the local community, the
tribe or the indigenous nation.
Convention 169 of the International Labour
Organization, adopted in 1989, calls on states
to respect indigenous lands and territories and
proclaims the right of indigenous people to
control their natural resources. But only 17
countries have ratified it (mostly in Latin America). Many of the current conflicts over land and
territory relate to the possession, control, exploitation and use of natural resources. In many

BUILDING MULTICULTURAL DEMOCRACIES

White

597.1

Indian

356.2

Coloured

340.2

African

Infant mortality rate (per 1,000)

137.8

7.3
9.9
36.3
54.3

Source: Mehrotra and Delamonica forthcoming.

countries the state claims the right to control
such resources. And in many instances multinational corporations assert their own economic interests, unleashing conflicts. In Chile
one law recognizes the rights of indigenous
people over their lands, but other laws allow any
private party to claim possession of subsoil
and water resources on those lands, making it
hard for indigenous communities to defend
their ancestral claims.
Some countries protect such claims through
legislation, but in many places indigenous people lack private ownership title. Powerful economic interests often turn communal possession
into private property. From southern Chile to the
Amazon basin to Canada’s northern forests to the
tropical jungles of South-East Asia to the bush
of southern Africa, there is no territory not coveted by some international corporation. It is coveted for its mineral wealth, its oil deposits, its
pastures, its forests, its medicinal plants, its suitability for commercial plantations, its water resources or its tourist potential. When the national
government signs agreements with international
companies for resources (logging, mines) on

67

Liberation struggles
against colonialism were
also struggles over access
to land

lands inhabited by indigenous people without
their participation in decision-making, indigenous
people become victims of globalized development
(see chapter 5 for a more detailed discussion of
this issue).
The claims of indigenous people over land
and natural resources are collective and therefore
complex. The idea of collective rights is troubling
in a democracy because it seems to contradict
individual rights. But the lack of legal recognition of collective rights violates individual rights.
Countries such as Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador
and Mexico have begun to find ways to recognize diversity in their constitutions. Countries
such as Bolivia, Ecuador and Mexico have also
recognized degrees of territorial autonomy.
Countries such as Bolivia, Brazil and Guatemala
have established institutions to address the
morass of incomplete or contradictory land titling and the challenge of land reform. And
countries such as the Philippines have recognized
the land rights of indigenous people (box 3.9).
In Africa the problem is similar, but with different roots. Despite movements towards
democracy over the last decade, in many cases
authoritarian regimes have broadly retained
control over security forces, economic resources
and funding from industrialized countries and
multilateral institutions. Economic austerity
programmes have often been used to advantage

by the ruling elites. And the dismantling of significant parts of the public sector, which marketoriented reforms usually require, without first
creating a true market, has recentralized power
in many cases. In that sense the structural
adjustments of the 1980s and 1990s might be
said to have had similar outcomes to the nationalizations of the 1960s and 1970s.
Unequal ownership of land. Independence and reconciliation policies in Namibia and
Zimbabwe, and the end of apartheid in South
Africa, led many to believe that racial conflicts
would be mitigated. Liberation struggles against
colonialism were also struggles over access to
land, expropriated illegally during colonial
times. But the post-colonial failure of national
governments and their international partners to
mobilize finance to acquire land on the market
has fuelled perceptions that white landowners
are being protected. The legacy of racially unequal land control afflicts the main agricultural
settler areas of Namibia, South Africa and Zimbabwe, as well as of Botswana, Malawi and
Swaziland. And the shift to the market has
brought new migrations of white farmers to
Mozambique and Zambia.
Most settler agriculture is on large farms,
claimed to be more efficient than the small subsistence farms of black farmers. The fact that
large farms provide most of the agricultural

BOX 3.9

Land rights in the Philippines
After decades of struggle the Philippine government passed the Indigenous People’s Rights
Act in 1997. This is the first time that a state in
the region explicitly recognized the rights of indigenous people to their ancestral domain, to selfdetermination and to the free exercise of their
culture. The act affirms that native title is the
main basis of the ancestral domain rights of indigenous people. It offers an option to apply for
a Certificate of Ancestral Domain Title, which
formally acknowledges such rights.
As of July 2003 the National Commission on
Indigenous People announced that 11 Certificates of Ancestral Domain Titles had been
awarded covering 367,000 hectares. Around
76,000 indigenous people are direct beneficiaries of these certificates, a tiny proportion of the
total indigenous population of 8 million.

The act defines ancestral domain as all areas
belonging to indigenous cultural communities
and indigenous people. This includes lands, inland waters and coastal areas occupied or possessed by indigenous people since time
immemorial. The interruption of this possession because of war, force majeure, deceit or
government projects does not invalidate the
right. Ancestral domain also includes forests,
pastures, burial grounds, worship areas, mineral and other resources that indigenous people
may no longer exclusively occupy and use but
to which they had access for their subsistence and
traditional activities.
This provision is important because it clearly
acknowledges the integral link of indigenous
cultures and traditions with the land. This is
consistent with Article 27 of the International

Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which
protects linguistic, cultural and religious rights
and for indigenous people includes land, resource, subsistence and participation rights.
For those who were dispossessed of their
lands, the law recognizes their cultural rights. It also
recognizes their inherent right to self-governance
and self-determination and respects the integrity
of their values, practices and institutions. The
state thus guarantees their right to freely pursue
their economic, social and cultural development.
However, implementation of the act has
also proved difficult, primarily because of bureaucratic inadequacies and discriminatory behaviour of politicians and civil servants.
Indigenous people and their advocates must be
vigilant in converting words to actions. The international community can help in this.

Source: National Commission on Indigenous Peoples 2004a, 2004b; UN 1994.

68

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

surplus for export and urban consumption ignores the well established research in agricultural
economics: that small farms are more efficient
than large ones. Land reform thus has to become
a much greater state priority in the region.
Yet colonial land expropriations continue
to be reinforced by new land concessions to
foreign investors. Some of the biggest landowners in southern Africa are multinational
companies with cattle ranches and mining concessions. These companies now control wildlife
and safari parks—in the name of eco-tourism—
which are growing in Mozambique, Namibia,
South Africa and Zimbabwe. Few of the benefits of such activities go to the local inhabitants.
In response, some of these countries have begun
to take steps to alter the situation, such as setting up smaller game parks that are not controlled by large companies.
To date land reform in southern Africa has
been slow, and accelerating the process will require donor support. Land reform should preferably be carried out in a transparent manner
that allows poor, indigenous groups fair and
productive use of land, which in addition to
being a critical economic asset is a potent political symbol.
Land issues have remained relevant to race
relations in Latin America as well. In the mid20th century, as part of a corporatist state model,
laws recognized indigenous people as candidates for citizenship rather than as objects of
local control. When the corporatist state granted
indigenous communities land titles and provided social services, it gave them the means for
securing a basic standard of living. And peasant federations provided Indians with institutional avenues for accessing and interacting
with the state.
However, in the 1980s and 1990s there has
been a steady erosion of the citizenship regimes
of corporatist states and a simultaneous politicization of ethnic cleavages in the Andean and
Mesomerican countries of Bolivia, Ecuador,
Guatemala, Mexico and Peru. The dismantling
of rural programmes (including land reforms and
credit programmes) has increased uncertainty
about property regimes among Indian peasants. Liberalizing states have made it clear that
they will not maintain (in Bolivia, Ecuador and

BUILDING MULTICULTURAL DEMOCRACIES

Mexico) or re-establish (in Guatemala and Peru)
special forms of property rights, credit and subsidies for Indian peasants. Thus the contemporary period challenges access to the state and
its resources for poor indigenous people. Rural
organizing and protests respond to this material uncertainty, as peasants fear indebtedness, declining incomes and loss of land. Unless these
issues are addressed, indigenous people cannot realize the promise of democracy in the region. The potential loss of land also affects the
viability and autonomy of local indigenous political institutions.60
TAKING

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN FAVOUR OF

Relying only on general
policies of economic
growth with equity for

DISADVANTAGED GROUPS

removing such group

Affirmative action policies allocate jobs, promotions, public contracts, business loans, admissions to higher education and legislative
seats on the basis of membership in a disadvantaged group. Such policies are needed when
the disadvantage is cultural exclusion. Relying
only on general policies of economic growth
with equity for removing such group inequalities would take an insupportably long time,
leading to resentment or even civil conflict.
Some affirmative action policies allocate
numerical quotas; others set more flexibly defined goals. Affirmative action can be voluntary
or legislatively mandated. In some countries,
such as Malaysia, affirmative action has been
used as a policy to address participation
exclusion—to remove group distinctions so that
racial, ethnic or linguistic identification is not
identical to low socio-economic status. In other
countries, such as South Africa, it is part of a policy of redressing past wrongs and reducing inequalities between groups (box 3.10).
Affirmative action has reduced intergroup
inequalities in places where it has been effectively
implemented. But studies of countries with extensive recorded data and a long history of affirmative action—India, Malaysia and the United
States and, over a shorter period, South Africa—
show that inequalities between individuals (vertical inequalities) as opposed to inequalities
between groups (horizontal inequalities) have either increased or remained stable. The Chinese
to Bumiputera disparity ratio in mean monthly

inequalities would take an
insupportably long time,
leading to resentment or
even civil conflict

69

BOX 3.10

Experiences with affirmative action in Malaysia and South Africa
Affirmative action, defined as public policy to reduce group inequalities, takes different forms. In
South Africa over the past decade and Malaysia
over the past three decades, affirmative action
has increased the designated groups’ representation in the elite and middle classes, but progress
has not prevented increasing inequality between
rich and poor, both within the formerly disadvantaged groups, as well as generally throughout society.
Malaysia
At independence in the late 1950s Malays and
other indigenous groups (Bumiputera), though
a numerical majority, were economically far behind the Chinese minority. Malays owned only
10% of registered businesses and 1.5% of invested capital. The Constitution granted Chinese
and Indian residents citizenship and at the same
time conferred special rights on Malays to land
ownership, government jobs, education and
business permits.
Following interethnic rioting in May 1969,
the government adopted the New Economic
Policy to eradicate poverty among all Malaysians
and to restructure Malaysian society so that
identification of race with economic function
and geographical location is reduced and eventually eliminated through rapid economic expansion. The government legislated Malay quotas
for trading and business licences and equity
ownership and provided special assistance
through credit, training and business sites. It
also acquired shares in private corporations on
behalf of the Bumiputera, with a view to achieving 30% corporate ownership.
While incomes have risen for all groups since
1969, group income disparities have fallen, an
impressive achievement. But income inequality

within groups has risen since the late 1980s, especially among the Bumiputera, where the gap between rich and poor has widened substantially.
The growing abuse of ethnic privileges, especially by the politically well connected, has
probably contributed to the cultural alienation
of recent decades, with dissent being expressed
among the Malays. With privatization opportunities from the mid-1980s largely decided by
the government on a discretionary basis, there
have been accusations of rent-seeking. Thus
while the specific socio-economic targets of the
New Economic Program have been largely
achieved, national unity has remained somewhat elusive. Identifying improved interethnic
relations almost exclusively with reduced disparities in participation in business communities
and the middle class has generated greater ethnic resentment and suspicion on both sides.
South Africa
At the end of the apartheid era in 1995 whites
accounted for 13% of the population and earned
59% of personal income; Africans, 76% of the
population, earned 29%.1 In a 2000 survey of 161
large firms employing 560,000 workers, whites
still held 80% of management positions. The
racial wage differential was also substantial although much smaller than before: at the end of
the 1990s white workers earned an average of five
times as much as Africans (although half of that
discrepancy was explained by a difference in
education and location).
In the post-apartheid era the democratic
government introduced a range of programs designed to narrow these gaps. The 1998 Employment Equity Act requires employers to
submit data on compensation and benefits for
each occupational category by race and gender

and to take appropriate measures if disproportionate income differentials exist. Firms above
a certain size are obliged to provide the government with annual reports outlining how they
plan to make their workforce more demographically representative at all levels. The law
also states that a protected group member’s lack
of necessary “experience” is not sufficient reason for hiring someone else as long as the
applicant has the “capacity to acquire, within a
reasonable time, the ability to do the job”.2 In
addition, “black empowerment charters” for
every industry set targets for the proportion of
shares that must be transferred to blacks (indigenous Africans, coloureds and Asians). Charters have already been published for the oil,
mining and banking sectors. The general thrust
is that about a quarter of South African shares
should be in black hands within a decade or so.
How have these efforts worked? About half
of South Africa’s middle managers and a quarter of top managers are black, up from hardly any
a decade ago. Blacks have been promoted especially fast in the public sector—the government
does not face competitors. However, since many
underqualified people had been promoted, the
government had to hire a large number of consultants to assist them, but that situation is changing. Efficiency is an issue. Under procurement
rules black-owned firms can charge more and still
win government contracts, leaving less money for
public goods such as roads, bridges and houses.
As for the empowerment charters, it is still unclear how this transfer of shares will be funded.
The current practice of black empowerment
“has created no new products or independent
new companies that are not propped up by large
white corporations”, according to Moeletsi
Mbeki, a well known commentator.

1. “Coloureds” and “Asians” made up 11% of the population.
2. The employer “may not unfairly discriminate against a person solely on the grounds of that person’s lack of relevant experience”, South Africa Employment Equity Act, no 55 of 1998, section 20 (5).
Source: Sabbagh 2004; Jomo 2004; The Economist 2004a; van der Westhuizen. 2002; Schultz and Mwabo 1998.

household income declined from 2.3 in 1970 to
1.8 in 2000 and that for Indians and Bumiputera fell from 1.73 to 1.3 (figure 3.3). And after
decades of affirmative action policies in the
United States the percentage of African Americans in the professions—lawyers, judges,
physicians, engineers, college and university
professors—has increased (figure 3.4). Thus the
size of the African American elite has grown, and
the dilemma now may be whether the second
generation of this elite should continue to receive
the benefits. In fact, in university admissions

70

the shift from affirmative action to colour blind
policies, as enforced in Texas and California
since 1996, has led to significant drops in minority enrolment in elite institutions.
India has one of the longest histories of any
country in implementing affirmative action policies. Affirmative action rules (also known as
“reservations”) apply to three groups: the scheduled castes (Hindu untouchables and the deprived segments of religious minorities),
scheduled tribes and “other backward classes”
(caste groups that lie between the untouchables

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

BUILDING MULTICULTURAL DEMOCRACIES

Group inequalities have declined in Malaysia, but personal
inequalities have not

Figure

3.3

Distribution of personal income
Percent

Ratio

Disparity ratio for mean monthly household incomes
by ethnic group
2.5

100
80

2.0

Chinese/Bumiputera

51.2

Top 20%

50.5

35.0

Middle 40%

35.5

60

40
1.5
20

Indian/Bumiputera
0

1.0
1970

1979

1990

1999

Bottom 40%

13.8
1987

2002

14.0
1999

Source: Jomo 2004.

The record of affirmative action in the United States is mixed

Figure

3.4

Report card on equality
White

Circa 1980
Black

Circa 2000
White

Black
72.2

74.4

68.1

77.7

6.7

21.5

5.1

17.1

Infant mortality rate (per thousand births)

10.9

22.2

5.2

14

People below the poverty line (percent)

10.2

32.5

9.5

22.5

6.3

14.3

3.5

7.6

15.5

38.5

11.4

24.5

Life expectancy (years)
Maternal deaths (per thousand births)

Unemployment rate (16 and older)
Unemployment rate (16- to 19-year-olds)

Blacks as share of professionals (percent)
1978
2003
Percent

and the twice-born Dvija). Colonial regimes excluded these three groups from the structure of
power. The result was that for centuries poverty
was systematically concentrated in certain social
groups. Reservations, which cover about 65% of
the population, are designed to bring power to
these peoples.
There are quotas for the scheduled castes
(15% of the population) and scheduled tribes
(8%) in legislative bodies at all government levels (local, provincial and national), in government jobs and in educational institutions.61
Since 1991 the other backward classes, the
largest and most heterogeneous group, have
had quotas in government jobs and higher education institutions (27% at the national and state
levels, a little over half of their proportion in the
population), but not in legislative bodies since
they constitute a majority in many states in India
and their representation in legislatures has increased greatly through normal processes of
competitive politics.
Reservations have changed the nature and
composition of the Indian middle class. A sizeable portion of the middle class now consists of
the second and third generation beneficiaries of
reservations. At Independence the scheduled
castes, scheduled tribes and other backward
classes could aspire only to a limited degree of
upward mobility. Reservations have broadened
their opportunities. Education has become a
social and cultural value, helping to create an
upper crust whose members serve both as role
models and as “spearheads” for their people to
enter the economic and political mainstream.62
One result is that middle-class identity is no
longer perceived in ritual status terms.
Educational and occupational reservations
have also made a lasting impact on India’s political system. The entire structure of political
power has changed since Independence, beginning with the south Indian states. A new political leadership has emerged from among the
scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and other
backward classes. In almost all states the beneficiaries of reservations occupy important positions in government and positions in lower
levels of the bureaucracy. This new political
class has ended the monopoly on power of the
Congress Party.

10

5
5.6

5.1
0

1.2
Lawyers and judges

2.0

2.6

1.1
Physicians

6.1

5.5

Engineers

Professors

Source: U.S. Census Bureau 2004b; U.S. Department of Labor 2004.

While affirmative action policies have had
many successes, income inequalities between
individuals have continued to increase even
in societies that have tried to reduce group
inequalities through affirmative action (India,
Malaysia, South Africa and the United States).
True, these inequalities might have been worse
without the affirmative action policies. But to reduce individual inequalities and build truly inclusive and equitable societies, other policies are
needed—of the kind discussed in previous
Human Development Reports—such as policies
that promote equitable economic development.
The original rationale of affirmative action
was to redress past racial wrongs. US blacks
were victimized first by slavery and then by a

71

There is no question that
affirmative action has
been necessary in the
countries examined here.
Most countries that have
adopted policies have also
experienced an increase in
overall inequalities in
personal income

72

century of legal, and frequently violent, discrimination. Affirmative action was intended
as a temporary measure. Instead, it has become
a feature of US life. Now its rationale, supported not only by top universities but also by
most large companies and even the military, is
the pursuit of “diversity”. The United States is
slowly moving towards a model of formally
colour blind policies, whose most distinctive
feature is a principled negation of race as a legal
category. For example, one suggested policy
measure is to transform preferences based on
race to preferences based on economic class. For
university admissions, however, given that highscoring poor white students outnumber highscoring poor Hispanics and blacks on tests six
to one, class-based preference will not foster
racial equality.63
In India the intention was to end reservations
once affected groups caught up. That has not
happened. Instead, the preferences have become self-perpetuating. Reserved legislative districts, which were supposed to end 10 years
after the Constitution of 1950, have been extended at 10-year intervals. Following a strategy
of “we are more backward than you are”, people try to get classified as members of preferred
castes to be eligible for preferences. Reservations
in some form now cover 65% of the population.
Such widespread gaming of the system has
increased the rancour, bordering on animosity,
of the “forward” castes and classes towards
the “backward” ones. Several confrontations
have resulted in the destruction of property and

the loss of life, raising the question of whether
the polarization is worth the preference. The
reasons:
• The scope of reservations in public employment has been widened from recruitment to promotions.
• The broadening of reservations constricts
opportunities for the forward castes.
• Governments have used reservations as a
populist policy to get votes.
• The reservations have led to the relaxation
of standards for admitting members of the
designated classes into professional schools.
Despite these concerns affirmative action
policies have been quite successful in achieving
their goals, and political considerations will
probably prevent their retirement. And without
them, group inequalities and socio-economic
exclusions would likely be worse than they are
today. Hence, there is no question that affirmative action has been necessary in the countries examined here.
One worrying aspect remains. Most countries that have adopted such policies have also
experienced an increase in overall inequalities
in personal income (accompanied by growing
inequality within the underprivileged group).
This suggests strongly that many other forces require action on a broader front: unequal land
and resource ownership, inequalities in the provision of basic social services, and patterns of development that exploit or exclude indigenous
people—just the factors underlying culturally
driven socio-economic exclusion.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

CHAPTER 4

Confronting movements for cultural domination

This Report argues that people should be free to
be who they are, to choose their identities and
to live accordingly. It further argues that the
recognition of multiple and complementary
identities—with individuals identifying themselves as citizens of a state as well as members of
ethnic, religious and other cultural groups—is the
cornerstone of cultural liberty. But movements
hostile to these principles seek to eliminate diversity in the name of cultural superiority. Such
movements, and their underlying sources of support, must be confronted. The question is: How?
This chapter is about coercive movements
for cultural domination—those that are motivated by an ideology of cultural supremacy and
domination and that use coercion to suppress
the cultural identities of others. These movements are a familiar part of the political landscape in many countries and may even be
growing in strength.
It is important to clarify what is distinctive
about this sort of movement. Many types of
movements use coercive strategies of violence
or intimidation, but not all such movements
are movements for cultural domination. Many
historically disadvantaged or subordinated
groups feel compelled to use coercive strategies,
particularly if they are excluded from or marginalized within the normal political process.
Their tactics may involve coercion, but their
goal is the pursuit of equal rights, power sharing, autonomy and a more inclusive society (for
example, the Zapatistas in Mexico). Insofar as
the recommendations discussed in chapters 3
and 5 are adopted, the use of coercive strategies
by such groups would no longer be necessary
or justified.
This chapter, by contrast, focuses on movements that typically seek to create ethnically or
religiously “pure” states by expelling, coercively assimilating or even killing anyone viewed
as “other”. For such movements the sorts of

multiculturalist policies defended in this Report
are anathema. It is the intolerance or hatred of
other ways—and organizing to spread that intolerance while denying people choice over their
identities—that makes a movement coercive (figure 4.1). The target: freedom and diversity.
Such movements are often misleadingly described as religious “fundamentalist” movements.
But it is important to emphasize that the focus
in this chapter is both broader and narrower
than the phenomenon of religious fundamentalism. On the one hand, many forms of religious
fundamentalism do not believe in the use of violence to achieve their aims. Nor do they necessarily seek to coercively impose their ideology on
others. They may work solely within the democratic system. Tibetan or Trappist monks have
strong religious beliefs but do not impinge on the
religious freedom of others. On the other hand,
there are cases of coercive movements for cultural
domination that are not based primarily on religion, but rather on appeals to racial or ethnic purity. Thus, religious fundamentalism is neither a
necessary nor a sufficient condition to qualify as
a coercive movement for cultural domination.
Figure

4.1

This chapter focuses on
movements that typically
seek to create ethnically
or religiously “pure”
states by expelling,
coercively assimilating or
even killing anyone
viewed as “other”

Movements for cultural domination—
not the same as all fundamentalist or
all violent movements
Movements for cultural domination
Supremacist and seek to suppress
other identities, even with violence

Fundamentalist
groups

Violent groups

Not all
fundamentalists
seek to impose
their ideology

Not all violent
groups have an
agenda of cultural
domination

Source: Human Development Report Office.

CONFRONTING MOVEMENTS FOR CULTURAL DOMINATION

73

The absence of democracy
often creates conditions for
the rise of such
movements, while political
accommodation can often
moderate the sources of
conflict and strengthen

4.2

MOVEMENTS FOR CULTURAL DOMINATION—
TODAY ’ S CHALLENGES
Coercive and intolerant movements are not
new, but they have been on the rise. In many
countries movements for cultural domination are
becoming a prominent force in national politics.
Among the disturbing indications:
• In Europe extreme right parties have had
election successes in several countries, obtaining as much as 26.9% of the vote in
Austria in 1999 (figure 4.2).
• In North America and Europe hate crimes
and xenophobic violence—motivated by

liberal democracy

Figure

How can states respond to such movements
without compromising their democratic principles? States have two options: to repress such
movements or to undermine their bases of support by democratically accommodating their underlying concerns and grievances. States have a
legitimate right, and responsibility, to prosecute
criminal acts. At times, the use of force is necessary. But states have to ensure that measures to
restrict movements for cultural domination do not
repress fundamental rights and freedoms. This
chapter argues that repression seldom works.
The absence of democracy often creates conditions
for the rise of such movements, while political accommodation can often moderate the sources of
conflict and strengthen liberal democracy.

Some European extreme right parties have won steadily increasing
vote shares

Percent

Trends in national parliamentary elections
30

Austria-FPÖ
20

10

Italy-MSI/ANa.

3

Belgium-VB
2

1

France-FN
0

1970

1975

1980

1985

1990

1995

2000

2003

a. The AN party in Italy was in the electoral alliance Casa Delle Liberta, which included Forza Italia, Lega Nord and the New Italian
Socialist Party (the alliance recieved 45.4% of the vote.) The vote percentage shown refers to the proportional part of the election, in
which 155 of the 630 deputies are elected.
Source: Electionworld.org 2004; Ignazi 2003; Jackman and Volpert 1996; Widfeldt 2004.

74

racist, ethnic or religious bias—remain
widespread. In 2002 there were 12,933 such
crimes in Germany and 2,391 in Sweden,
3,597 prosecutions in the United Kingdom
and 7,314 offences in the United States.1
These countries are not unique in experiencing extreme intolerance; they are among
the few, however, that collect such data.
• In 2003, 13 of 65 (one in five) groups engaging in terrorism could be identified as
seeking religious domination or ethnic
cleansing.2
• In Africa the Lord’s Resistance Army, which
aims to establish a government based on
the Ten Commandments, has inflicted brutal violence in northern Uganda since 1988,
including kidnapping, torture and rape.
The Interahamwe Hutu rebels, perpetrators of the 1994 genocide, continue to pose
a threat in Rwanda.
• In South Asia organized violent attacks on
Christian churches and missions have increased. India, despite its long secular tradition, has experienced considerable communal
violence, with rising intensity: 36.2% of casualties due to communal violence since 1954
occurred in 1990–2002.3 In Pakistan certain
organizations (the Sipah-e-Sahaba, Lashkare-Jhangvi and Tehreek-i-Jafariya) have
stoked brutal sectarian violence between Sunnis and Shiites since 1989 (table 4.1).4
• In South-East Asia the militant Jemaah
Islamiyah, with networks in Indonsia,
Malaysia, the Philippines and Singapore,
seeks to establish an Asian Islamic state.
Some of its members were convicted for
the Bali bombing in October 2002.
• Such movements are often found on the
fringes, but they can also be segments of a
political party or even a state. In seeking to
impose a particular notion of national identity and ideology, while suppressing other
cultural identities, coercive states have committed some of the worst brutalities of recent
history—the genocide of non-communists by
the Khmer Rouge and the ethnic cleansing
of Muslims by Serbian forces in Kosovo.
Political activism for cultural domination
exists in all major religions. In the United States
Christian extremists bomb abortion clinics. In

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

TABLE 4.1

Casualties resulting from sectarian
violence in Pakistan, 1989–2003
Year

Number killed

Number injured

1989
1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003

18
32
47
58
39
73
59
86
193
157
86
149
261
121
102

102
328
263
261
247
326
189
168
219
231
189
..
495
257
103

.. Not available.
Note: Data for 2000 are for terrorist attacks using explosives only. Data
on casualties and incidents of other terrorist activity are not available.
Source: SATP 2004.

India Hindu extremists have fomented antiMuslim violence in Gujarat even as Muslim
extremists have targeted Hindus. The Jewish
Gush Emunim, a militant settler group, aims
to recreate Biblical Israel and has used violence to expel Palestinians. The Armed Islamic
Group in Algeria threatens to kill those who do
not pray or women who choose not to wear a
headscarf. In Japan the Aum Shinrikyo cult,
which claimed to be associated with Buddhism,
poisoned commuters on the Tokyo subway
system
in
1995.
Nor is religion the only wellspring of extremism. Brutalities on the basis of ethnicity or
race include the attempted extermination of
Jews by the Nazis in Germany and the massacre of Tutsis by Hutus in Rwanda.
IDENTIFYING

MOVEMENTS FOR CULTURAL

DOMINATION

Movements for cultural domination share some
key elements. They distinguish themselves by
their cultural identity—whether ethnic, racial or
religious—and they attempt to impose their
ideology by coercion, even extermination. They:
• Believe in the superiority of their culture and
reject all others.
• Act on this belief to impose their ideology
on others and create a “pure” society.
• Often, though not always, resort to violence
to achieve their aims.

Movements for cultural domination are supremacist and often predatory. They espouse
an ideology that demonizes other identities to justify the creation of a “pure”, sacred and homogeneous homeland. They view anyone who does
not belong to the core community as inferior, unwanted and unworthy of respect. The Jemaah Islamiyah blames Indonesia’s problems on “Kaffir
Chinese and Christians”5— this is its justification
for seeking to create an Islamic state at the cost
of Indonesian secularism. The National
Alliance—the largest neo-Nazi organization in the
United States—wants to create a new government
“answerable to white people only”.6
Movements for cultural domination are exclusionary and seek to impose their ideology on
others. They build support by engendering a
sense of fear that their own values and identity
are under threat (chapter 1). A study of extreme right parties in Europe revealed common characteristics: they foment xenophobia,
leading to demands to create mono-cultural societies, to exclude “outsiders” from welfare
policies and to mould a strong state that can protect the nation from “evil forces”.7 Movements
of cultural domination also target members of
their own community by denigrating and suppressing dissenting opinions and questioning integrity and loyalty (purity of faith or patriotism).
Other motives may be at work. Many ethnic conflicts are also about political or economic power (chapter 2), and ethnic identity is
a way to mobilize allies. The Rwandan genocide,
for example, was a manifestation of the struggle for political and economic power between
the Tutsi, excluded under the Hutu-dominated
government, and the Hutu, excluded under
colonial rule. What distinguishes these movements is that they pursue cultural domination
in the name of identity. Inciting an ideology of
hatred against the Tutsis, the Hutu militants redefined Hutu identity in racial terms, claiming
that Hutus were the original inhabitants and deriding Tutsis as “foreigners” from Ethiopia.
Not all movements for cultural domination
are overtly violent. Threats, harassment and
electoral politics are also common tactics. Moreover, the same organization might use a range
of strategies—propaganda, electoral politics,
soliciting of external support, forcible demands

CONFRONTING MOVEMENTS FOR CULTURAL DOMINATION

Movements for cultural
domination are
exclusionary and seek
to impose their ideology
on others

75

for local support, and guerrilla or terrorist campaigns. Electoral politics is not always an alternative to coercion—many parties instil fear and
insecurity to gain votes and to threaten members
of other communities. While violence is not a
universal characteristic of coercive movements,
it is a common one. Coercive ideologies spread
intolerance, which can inspire acts of random violence. The Christian Identity movement in the
United States inspired racist shootings and murders by members of the Aryan Nations in 1998.

When the state fails,
coercive movements

WHY

DO THESE MOVEMENTS EXIST — AND

WHY IS THEIR INFLUENCE GROWING ?

may step in to offer
education, insurance or
law and order

76

Ideology. Discrimination. Poverty and inequality. Manipulative leadership. A weak or ineffectual state. Outside political interventions.
Linkages with alienated diaspora. All are among
the reasons for the rise and staying power of coercive movements for cultural domination. Failures of development and governance can leave
a vacuum that coercive movements are only
too eager to fill. A consistent characteristic of
such movements is that they offer a simple
(often distorted) explanation for the world’s
failings—and a simple agenda to correct them
(expelling immigrants, killing members of other
communities).
Identity politics often has underlying economic explanations of grievance or greed. In
Western Europe extreme right parties have
gained votes when there has been a significant
loss of trust in mainstream parties over issues
ranging from corruption to globalization.8 Religious movements offer doctrinal salvation to
people who see modernization as alien and repressive in contexts where neither democratization nor economic development has
succeeded. So, even a threatened middle class
and professionally frustrated intelligentsia might
join the ranks of the economically and socially
marginalized in coercive movements. This was
evident in the role of the “oppositional lay intelligentsia” in the rise of many coercive Islamist
movements until the 1970s. In recent years clerics have played the dominant role.9
When the state fails, coercive movements
may step in to offer education, insurance or law
and order. The Taliban initially helped secure

trading routes. The Gush Emunim briefly provided security to its members’ settlements in
the West Bank and Gaza. The Adolat brigades
in Uzbekistan gained popularity when they took
the law into their own hands to reduce crime and
lower food prices.
The lack of resources to send children to secular (government or private) schools is one reason individuals rely on religious schools that
provide free education. In principle, this is unobjectionable. Islamic schools, for example,
can provide cultural and economic benefits to
students who might otherwise not get an education. But in some communities such schools
have also promoted coercive cultural ideologies
and encouraged students to engage in coercive
activities. While 2–3% of Pakistan’s Islamic
schools are said to be recruiting children into
coercive movements, only about half the estimated 15,000–20,000 religious schools are officially registered.10 It becomes difficult for the
state to oversee and regulate such unregistered
schools. In Thailand 300 of the 550 Islamic
schools offer no secular education (the state is
investigating their involvement in recruiting
and training militants).11
But even state schools can preach intolerance. Nazism was propagated in state schools.
Ideologies of white supremacy were part of the
curriculum in South Africa under the apartheid
regime. Control over education resources
permits states to revise textbooks to distort history, target particular communities and encourage racist stereotypes.
Leaders define the ideology of a movement.
One of their main functions is to interpret religious
doctrine to persuade members of the “divine”
rightness of their acts. Because militias have a
high risk of defection, leaders might demand that
members prove their loyalty by studying religious
texts for years or by committing acts of destruction. They also change the organization’s ideology or target, depending on the circumstances.
And leaders convert wanton acts of coercion into
a corporate effort. They recruit, indoctrinate and
train their cadres (sometimes children). They
plan terrorist acts and prepare publicity materials. And they secure funds to compensate family
members of cadres who die in action and are
then glorified as heroes (box 4.1).

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

Long-term immigrant communities abroad
can contribute to the rise of coercive movements in their countries of origin. As members
of the diaspora they struggle between retaining
their original identity and cultural traditions
and adapting to their new environment. When
they feel insecure or unappreciated, they may
separate themselves from mainstream society.
There is evidence of such dissatisfaction among
Muslim populations in Germany and the Netherlands.12 Coercive movements can exploit such
sentiments to tap the diaspora for financial and
political support. In the early 1990s “weekend
fighters” came from Germany to fight for their
ethnic groups in Bosnia.13
Many of these underlying factors in the
rise of movements of cultural domination also
inspire nationalist movements. Many of these
factors are the reasons why discriminatedagainst groups struggle for political rights. But
many movements for autonomy can be liberal
and recognize the importance of accommodating diversity within an autonomous region.
By contrast, movements for cultural domination
can arise even within the majority and politically
dominant group. Racists do not seek territorial autonomy; instead, they target all who are
viewed as “other” or inferior. Movements for
cultural domination are adept at using people’s genuine grievances to gain supporters.
What distinguishes them is their agenda of cultural superiority and elimination of diversity and
tolerance.
DILEMMAS FOR DEMOCRACIES—RESTRICTIVE
OR ACCOMMODATIVE MEASURES ?
Coercive movements can be a powerfully destabilizing force. A challenge for all states, they present a particular dilemma for democratic ones.
If movements for cultural domination use violent
means, threaten law and order or deny the human
rights of their members, governments have every
right to take forceful action against them. But the
problem is much broader than crime and punishment. In states that respect the right of free
speech, movements for cultural domination use
the freedoms of democratic societies to try to undermine them. It is possible—indeed, common—
to advocate exclusion, discrimination and the

denial of civil and political liberties without ever
breaking the law.
The dilemma is that democratic states, which
hold their values of freedom dear, do not want
to stand accused of improperly restricting free
speech and rights of assembly. Nor do they
want to ignore threats to communal peace or intimidation of minority groups. If the rights of
some groups are restricted, while the rest of society enjoys them, there is a danger of provoking extreme, even violent reactions. The
challenge is to protect freedom while discouraging coercive movements.
Coercive movements tend to be more
powerful, and threatening, in non-democratic
states. They make themselves heard through
violence and extremism because the public
sphere is otherwise closed to them. By definition, non-democratic states embody little or no
allegiance to such values as free speech or the
right to organize politically. For non-democratic regimes the trade-off between liberty and repression is less acute because there is less liberty
to start with.
For non-democratic governments, moving
towards more liberal politics can be an effective

Coercive movements can
be a powerfully
destabilizing force

BOX 4.1

Leadership, ideological manipulation and recruiting supporters
Leaders of movements for cultural domination build group identities and mobilize their
followers to adopt coercive methods against
others. Leaders use their organizational skills
to gain supporters, modify ideologies to suit
their needs, arrange finances at home and
abroad and give weapons and training to
militant cadres. Such leaders pursue two
core aims: creating an ideology of intolerance
and altering the balance of political power.
The easiest way to breed intolerance is
to use self-serving interpretations of history to describe and vilify other groups. By
doing so, leaders emphasize the quest for
justice and focus on the losses their group
allegedly suffered. The focus is not on
solving real grievances but on using ostensible grievances as rallying cries. The Web
site of the Bajrang Dal, a Hindu extremist
group, accuses the Indian state of appeasing “anti-national elements (muslims)” and
demands that Indian Muslims “prove that

they are not the heirs and followers” of
past invaders who destroyed Hindu temples.
In the United States after the 1993 Waco
tragedy involving Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) agents and the Branch Davidian cult, leaders of religious cults and
white supremacist organizations tried to
rally support by attacking the federal government for perpetrating what they claimed
was an injustice.
Leaders also seek to change the structure of governance, such as substituting
theological law for secular rules, repudiating electoral processes or restricting the
constitutional rights of others. All these
measures serve to impose one group’s authority and superiority over others. Notwithstanding the violent activities of the Tamil
Tigers (LTTE) in Sri Lanka, in the past
Buddhist monks have regularly opposed
any moves towards granting autonomy to
Tamils in the northeast.

Source: ADL 2003; The Economist 2000; Grove and Carter 1999; HinduUnity.org 2004; IRR 2003; Stern 2003.

CONFRONTING MOVEMENTS FOR CULTURAL DOMINATION

77

strategy (box 4.2). Democratic societies, better
suited to dealing with movements of cultural
domination, have more options.
RESTRICTIVE

Restricting the activities
of coercive movements is
only the first step

MEASURES

Restricting the activities of coercive movements
is the first step. When these movements threaten,
intimidate and violently target other groups,
states need to restrain them, even if that requires the use of force. Common measures to restrict (and eventually eliminate) the activities
of coercive movements include:
• Erecting institutional barriers against coercive political parties.
• Enacting legislation and using judicial
intervention.
• Applying force.
Erecting barriers against coercive political
parties. Institutional barriers that exclude certain
types of organizations from participating freely in
electoral politics or civil society are a common way
for democratic societies to keep cultural extremism from infecting the larger society. Barriers include requiring a minimum share of votes
to enter the legislature, controlling campaign
funds, restricting access to broadcast services and

banning certain types of political parties through
constitutional provisions. Non-democratic governments use similar measures to suppress opposition, compromising their ability to deal with
coercive movements when a specific threat arises
because there are no lines of communication.
In Germany a political party must get 5% of
the national vote to take a seat in the legislature.
This threshold has helped to exclude from power
all major extreme right parties since the end of
the Second World War—the National Democratic Party (NPD), Republican Party (REP) and
the German People’s Union (DVU). Israel’s
threshold of 1.5%, by contrast, was not high
enough to keep Rabbi Kahane of the racist Kach
Party from winning a seat in the Knesset in 1984.
In response, parliament adopted section 7A of
the Basic Law, which blocks a slate of candidates
from participating in elections if its purposes include, among others, “denial of the democratic
character of the state” or “incitement to racism”.
The government banned Kach in 1988 for inciting
racism and declared it a terrorist organization in
1994. In both Germany and Israel coercive
groups, even if permitted to contest elections,
found their freedoms constrained when authorities identified them as hostile to the constitution.

BOX 4.2

Central Asia—the danger in restricting political and cultural liberties
By the end of Soviet rule in Central Asia Islam
was polarized and new Islamist movements had
emerged. There was official Islam, as regulated
(and suppressed) by the Soviet state; traditional
Islam, as organized around unofficial clergy;
and reformist Islam, as espoused by the ahl
al-Quran—“people of the Book”—who wanted
to establish “pure Islam” and believed in strict
adherence to Sharia law. With the repression of
movements expressing popular aspirations, each
successive religious movement became more
ideologically extreme and coercive.
Repression seldom works …
In the early 1990s the pan-Central Asian Islamic Revival Party (IRP) sought to purify Islam
but lacked a coherent structure. Despite being
generally moderate, the IRP was banned in
Uzbekistan in 1991. Around the same time the
Adolat (justice) movement became a force, demanding that Uzbekistan become an Islamic
state. It gained popularity as bands of volunteers

patrolled the Ferghana Valley to reduce crime
and demand lower food prices. Fearing alleged
links with the IRP, authorities prosecuted Adolat
leaders. This only boosted their popular appeal
and forced the movement underground. In
1999–2000 the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU), headed by former Adolat leaders,
sought to depose the Uzbek government and establish an Islamic state.
Another Islamist group, the Hizb-ut Tahrir
(HT), has gained supporters throughout the
Ferghana Valley region of Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. It wants to establish an
Islamic caliphate in Central Asia. But it strongly
criticizes the violence of the IMU, relying instead on grass-roots campaigns, distribution of
leaflets and similar tactics. However, the HT
also espouses radical ideas, rejecting democracy, imposing Sharia and threatening the possible use of force in future. The HT has been
banned in all three states, but its popularity has
not waned.

… but democratic accommodation can
Tajikistan’s civil war (1992–97) was largely a
power struggle between different ethnic groups.
After the United Tajik Opposition had been expelled from its strongholds, religious activists
took over its leadership and renamed the group
the Movement for the Islamic Revival of Tajikistan (MIRT), trying to reshape it as a religious
force. In areas under its control the MIRT threatened to punish people who did not pray and
demanded that women wear veils. Many moderate opposition leaders left the MIRT. After a
peace agreement in 1997 former opposition
members (including those from the relegalized
Islamic Revival Party of Tajikistan) received government positions. More moderate leaders joined
the party. The IRPT has kept its commitment—
surrendering weapons, upholding the constitution, supporting a secular democratic state. The
IRPT continues to advocate inclusion of religious
values in the legal system, though it has limited
political influence.

Source: Cornell and Spector 2002; The Economist 2003b; Rotar’ 2002; Rubin 2004; Zelkina 1999.

78

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

Such bans on political participation may be
legitimate if a party has been implicated in criminal behaviour. But restrictions on political parties only because they adhere to a particular
ideology might not work for two reasons. First,
a movement that expresses a genuine public
concern seldom withers away. Second, opposition against the regime can increase, and take
more extreme forms, if the public considers
such bans illegitimate. Morocco’s experience
shows that wider political participation can increase moderation. After constitutional changes
expanded the electoral playing field, the Islamist
Justice and Development Party became the main
opposition party in 2002. Within a year its leaders were arguing less about imposing Islamic law
and more about advancing development.
Enacting legislation and using judicial
intervention. Laws restricting coercive groups
differ in scope and implementation. Despite
strong anti-racism laws in Sweden the Parliament
rejected a ban on extreme right groups. But at
times stringent laws against terrorism become
necessary. In the United Kingdom the AntiTerrorism, Crime and Security Act of 2001 extended its scope to include both racially and
religiously aggravated crimes. This law and
India’s Prevention of Terrorism Act of 2002
extend the period of detention of suspects without trial. Malaysia and Singapore have used
similar provisions for decades.
But there are lively debates about anti-terror
legislation almost everywhere—Germany, Indonesia, Malaysia, New Zealand, Russia, the
United Kingdom and the United States—because there is also a danger that anti-terror laws,
enacted to deal with a crisis, will be abused or
will remain in use in perpetuity. It is important
to regularly review these laws for their need
and effectiveness to justify their continuing application. The Indian government allowed its
earlier anti-terror law to lapse in 1995 after accusations of human rights abuses. The UK antiterror law was introduced as a temporary
measure in 1974 (in the wake of Northern Ireland-related terrorism) and amended in 1976,
1984, 1989 and 1996. When made permanent,
such laws compromise guarantees of civil liberties in democratic societies. The UK legislation has no expiry date.

The effectiveness of laws that seek to cut the
ground out from under movements for cultural
domination depends not on how much they restrict civil liberties but on how much they protect them. The role of a functioning civilian
justice system is critical for prosecuting coercive
movements and individuals but also to serve as
a check on government actions.
Courts have come to different conclusions
about the proper balance between protecting liberty and permitting the spread of hatred. In
1996 the Swedish Supreme Court interpreted a
1948 law that prohibited agitation against other
ethnic groups (hets mot folkgrupp) to allow the
banning of any display of emblems, symbols or
clothing connected with racial hatred. The Dutch
are also working through such complexities. In
early 2001 the mayor of the municipality of
Kerkrade invoked the Law on Public Events to
forbid a march by the Netherlands People’s
Union, an extreme right party with a racist ideology. A court in Maastricht overturned the
order, and the march took place. The legitimacy of actions rests on acceptance of internationally recognized laws and norms. Coercive
movements often develop international networks. If due process of law is not followed in
one country, then a movement might gain sympathy and support in other countries as well.
Applying force. All states, democratic or
not, have a right to use force when faced with
violent movements. What matters is how they
use it. The use of force loses much or all of its
legitimacy when the state restricts political rights,
avoids civilian jurisdiction or uses torture.
There is a practical argument against the
use of force as the first option: it often does not
work. Repression of the generally moderate
Islamic Revival Party in Uzbekistan in the early
1990s led to the growth of extremist groups
like the Adolat movement, and by 1999 the
Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan was attempting to overthrow the government and engaging
in terrorism (see box 4.2).
Ensuring that force is used legitimately is not
always easy. Force should be used only against
groups that are coercive, not against groups demanding rights for political participation. It is
sometimes difficult to make that distinction,
however. Members of the same movement might

CONFRONTING MOVEMENTS FOR CULTURAL DOMINATION

There is a practical
argument against the use
of force as the first option:
it often does not work

79

States should go beyond
restrictive measures to
contain intolerant
ideologies and coercive
movements

espouse different ideologies and objectives,
some coercive, others not. States become wary
that giving freedom to a coercive movement
could encourage more intolerance. Egypt shows
just how difficult it has been to identify coercive
movements—and yet how important it is to
choose the right policy response (box 4.3).
But certain strategies should be avoided.
States have resorted to torture, arguing that it is
justified under certain circumstances. No matter how infrequent or moderate the use, there is
always the danger of abuse when the law condones such actions. In 1987 an Israeli judicial
commission recommended allowing “moderate
physical pressure” in interrogations.14 But the
abuse of Palestinian prisoners by Shin Bet, the
security service, became widespread. Recognizing this reality, the Israeli Supreme Court declared
all such methods illegal in 1999. As of March
2004, 58 of 191 United Nations member states
had not ratified the Convention against Torture
and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment (indicator table 30).
Most democratic states, and even some nondemocratic ones, apply five basic principles in
their judicial processes: no arbitrary detention,

no torture, habeas corpus, access to trial by
civilian magistrate and access to a defence
lawyer. Confronting coercive movements does
not mean that these principles have to be compromised. Doing so makes restrictive measures
repressive—and even ineffective.
DEMOCRATIC

ACCOMMODATION

States should avoid using only restrictive measures to contain intolerant ideologies and coercive movements. Why? Because the measures can
undermine democratic principles—and are frequently ineffective. There is no evidence, for
example, that banning political parties and movements with a racist agenda ends racism. Movements for cultural domination exploit real
grievances; if banned, they simply go underground. Restriction, especially repression, provokes resistance not only from the movements—it
can also turn popular opinion against the state.
Coercive movements are sustainable at least
in part because they give expression to people’s concerns and sentiments. Such concerns
can be addressed only if they can be expressed
and understood.

BOX 4.3

Egypt—distinguishing between moderates and extremists
Islamist groups are not all alike. Treating them
so is not only poor politics, it is also ineffective
in addressing the concerns that animate them.
At the same time, distinguishing between groups
and their ideologies is not always easy. This can
be seen clearly in Egypt.
For the better part of a century Egypt has
contended with Islamist movements. The Muslim Brotherhood (founded in 1928), al-Jama’a
al-Islamiyya and al-Jihad are the most prominent. From the 1940s to the 1960s the Muslim
Brotherhood had a violent element involving
high-profile assassinations and armed plots
against the government. But in the past two
decades some of its leaders have rejected revolutionary and violent methods (they claim
completely), even suggesting that violence contradicts Islamic Sharia.
The Muslim Brotherhood’s stated objectives
now are the establishment of an Islamic democracy based on freedom, and the creation of a society with social justice and security for all
citizens. It seeks an Egypt governed by Sharia

law, while emphasizing the need to work within
the institutions of democracy.
The Egyptian state allowed the Muslim
Brotherhood to run for election, in alliance
with other parties, in 1984 and 1987, without
officially recognizing it. The Brotherhood contested in alliance with other parties (Wafd in
1984, Liberal and Socialist Labour in 1987)
and scored impressive gains—initially 8 seats,
then 36. However, partly due to internal conflicts, the Brotherhood was equivocal in condemning violent acts committed by other groups
in the early 1990s. Such ambiguity about its ideology has undercut the Brotherhood’s attempts
to position itself as a moderate political alternative. In the 1990s the government arrested
hundreds of Brotherhood members on the
grounds that they were supporting terrorism.
Deciding how to deal with the Muslim
Brotherhood is difficult. Egypt would be in a
stronger position, however, if it acted from a position free from accusations of human rights
abuses. Excluding one of the country’s promi-

nent political organizations from public life is untenable in the long term.
Al-Jama’a al-Islamiyya and al-Jihad, which
originated in the 1970s, have relied on violent
tactics to secure their objective of imposing
Sharia. The most gruesome attack was the massacre of 68 foreigners and Egyptians at a temple in Luxor in 1997 (the Muslim Brotherhood
denounced the attack). Since then these groups
have suffered ideological divisions. Some leaders now reject violence, while others defend it.
The attacks on US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in 1998 (both groups allegedly contributed
to them) highlighted the threats extremist elements pose. Alleged links to al-Qaeda have further eroded their claims to political participation.
They are not allowed to enter elections.
As the world seeks solutions to the threats
posed by international terrorism, the Egyptian
experience shows how difficult it is to distinguish
between moderate and extremist groups. But
opening the political sphere to the moderates can
help to reduce the appeal of the extremists.

Source: Abed-Kotob 1995; Campagna 1996; Fahmy 1998; Gerges 2000.

80

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

Allowing political parties that espouse coercive ideologies to participate in elections might
provide a democratic channel for expressing
resentment, thereby reducing violence. The risk
is that such parties, on gaining power, might then
try to suppress cultural freedoms. Should the
state ban parties that want to coercively impose
Islamic Sharia law? Should a white-power group
in Sweden be allowed to operate freely?
This Report has already argued that universal values of human rights and individual freedoms
must not be sacrificed to claims of tradition or customary law. But repressing a party for its ideology risks undermining democratic processes and
might encourage the excluded to turn to violence. The experience of several countries suggests
four strategies to guide the actions of democratic states—strategies that non-democracies can
learn from:
• Allowing normal democratic processes to
function.
• Prosecuting hate crimes.
• Paying attention to school curricula.
• Helping communities come to terms with
past hatred and violence.

Allowing normal democratic processes to
function. Suppression of political rights on
grounds of ideology seldom succeeds. In Algeria
a military intervention in 1992 annulled the
election of the Islamic Salvation Front (FIS)
party. This led to the emergence of a more militant group, the Armed Islamist Group (GIA).
The result: more than a decade of deadly violence and nearly 100,000 lives lost.15 Political accommodation can split coercive movements
between those prepared to participate in elections or government and those not (box 4.4).
Mainstream parties in Europe tend to avoid
links with racist, anti-immigrant parties, but political realities have at times coaxed them into
bringing extreme right parties into a coalition.
Austria’s extreme right Freedom Party (FPÖ)
has been part of regional coalition governments
since the 1970s. After winning 26.9% of the
vote in 1999, it became a partner in the national
coalition government. But this was on the condition that its leader, Jörg Haider, not be part
of the government; he even stepped down as
party chairman in 2000. Government policy remained moderate: Austrian immigration policy

Democratic
accommodation can
shed the hard light of
reality on the fringe
appeal of extremism

BOX 4.4

Algeria—discontent, democratization and violence
The Algerian civil war is often portrayed as a conflict between Islamic fundamentalists and the
state. But the rise of intolerant and violent groups
resulted from failed democratization. Accommodative strategies in recent years have yielded
some initial positive results even as several other
challenges remain.
After an economic collapse in the 1980s
pressure for greater democratization increased.
The National Liberation Front (FLN) government, which had ruled Algeria since independence, introduced constitutional changes in 1989
to legalize political parties and curtail the role of
the military. It had also encouraged an Islamist
movement by significantly increasing religious
spending from 1982 to 1987. Beginning in 1988
the country prepared for its first multiparty
election, and the government dramatically cut religious spending to dampen the Islamist movement’s growing appeal. In the December 1991
elections the Islamic Salvation Front (FIS), which
wanted to establish an Islamic state, won 47% of
the vote in the first round. With the election
outcome almost certain, the government halted

the electoral process in early 1992. Democracy
had failed in Algeria.
While the failure had little to do with Islam,
Islam was a major factor in the crisis. An armed
Islamist movement had begun organizing in Algeria in 1990. Many groups, believing that democracy was not the route to an Islamic state, stayed
out of the FIS. The FIS, arguing for democratic
processes, at first marginalized violent groups. But
it started losing credibility in the aftermath of the
1992 coup. By 1994, when armed groups opposing dialogue with the “apostate regime”
(Hafez 2000, p. 577) united as the Armed Islamic
Group (GIA), the FIS formed its own military
wing—the Islamic Salvation Army (AIS).
The differences in ideology were substantial.
The GIA targeted civilians; the AIS declared such
methods un-Islamic and focused on military targets. The GIA considered violent jihad an Islamic
imperative; the AIS viewed it as only one of many
means to build an Islamic state. The GIA portrayed
an uncompromising struggle against infidels and
apostates; the AIS and FIS appealed to the president to restore democracy and political rights.

These varying interpretations of Islam and its role
indicate why generalizations about Islam and Islamist movements in Algeria are unhelpful.
Since 1997, when the AIS negotiated a ceasefire with the military in return for a general
amnesty, Algeria has made some moves towards
reconciliation and democracy. In 1999 the government released political prisoners and passed
a Law of Civil Reconciliation to extend amnesty
to rebels who had not killed civilians, placed
bombs in public places or committed rape. In
elections in 2002 two Islamist-oriented parties
earned seats in the National Assembly.
Algeria has a long road ahead. The FIS continues to be disqualified from elections. The
GIA and the recently established Salafist Group
for Preaching and Combat continue to threaten
violence. Demands for cultural recognition by the
Berbers are another source of tension. Algeria’s
experience exemplifies the argument presented
throughout this Report: religion and ethnicity are
not intrinsically causes of conflict, and democracy is a necessary but not sufficient condition
for guaranteeing cultural freedoms.

Source: Hafez 2000; Middle East Institute 2003; Testas 2002; Tremlett 2002.

CONFRONTING MOVEMENTS FOR CULTURAL DOMINATION

81

SPECIAL CONTRIBUTION
Difference is not a threat but a source of strength
So long as the legitimate rights of each community in Northern Ireland were not accommodated together in a new political framework
acceptable to all, the situation would continue to
give rise to conflict and instability. There needed
to be agreement.
That is the purpose of the 1998 Belfast Agreement. It represents an accommodation that protects and promotes the identities and rights of all
political traditions, groups and individuals. No one
is asked to yield cherished convictions or beliefs.
Everyone is asked to respect the views and rights
of others as equal to his or her own.
I also believe that the European Union is
the best example of conflict prevention and conflict resolution in international history. It is important that we maintain and build on that
record. European visionaries demonstrated
that difference—whether of race, religion or
nationality—is not a threat, but is natural, positive
and a source of strength. It should never be the
source of hatred or conflict. A fundamental principle of peace is respect for diversity.
I entered the European Parliament in 1979 on
the occasion of the first direct election to the

did not become dramatically harsher, as had
been feared. And in 2002 the FPÖ won only 10%
of the vote, suffering from internal party divisions
(see figure 4.2).
Democratic accommodation can shed the
hard light of reality on the fringe appeal of extremism. Extreme right parties might initially
show populism-driven electoral success, but it is
not always easy to maintain the momentum. Many
European extreme right parties, like the Denmark
Progress Party (FRPd) or the German Republican Party (REP), openly contested elections but
were rendered irrelevant when they received
miniscule proportions of the vote. Others like the
Social Movement Tricolour Flame (MS-FT) in
Italy got barely any support (figure 4.3).
Non-democratic countries, by definition, have
a narrow public space for political contests. This
can encourage the growth of coercive movements,
but it also limits the state’s ability to confront
them in a way that the public deems legitimate.
Prosecuting hate crimes. Failure to prosecute hate crimes only encourages coercive movements to advance their agenda through threats

82

parliament by the voters of its then nine member
states. I will soon be stepping down from elected
public life, delighted in the knowledge that in
those 25 years the European Union has progressed
to the point that it will by then have expanded to
include 25 member states. This will end the artificial division of our continent created after the Second World War and reunite our European family.
The European Parliament’s location is in Strasbourg, on the River Rhine, on the border between
France and Germany. When I first visited Strasbourg I walked across the bridge from Strasbourg
in France to Kehl in Germany and reflected on the
tens of millions of people who had been killed in
the numerous wars waged for control of territory.
The European Union has replaced those conflicts
with co-operation between its people. It has transformed its wide range of traditions from a source
of conflict into a source of unifying strength.

John Hume, MP MEP
1998 Nobel Peace Prize Winner

and violence. Legislation that specifically targets hate crimes is controversial. Critics ask why
bigotry should be considered more reprehensible
Figure

4.3

Democratic participation can expose the
fringe appeal of extreme right parties
Share of vote in national parliamentary elections

Percent

Most societies in the world today include more
than one culture, one community or one tradition. All too often in such a situation one element
may seek to dominate the society as a whole.
That approach can generate tension and conflict.
It is in the interests of all to work together to build
a society beneficial to all its members.
Northern Ireland and the European Union
are particularly strong examples of how the existence of more than one culture can prove to be
positive in the building and development of society through a process of conflict resolution.
It is now almost four decades since the beginnings of the civil rights movement in Northern Ireland, which has sought by peaceful means
the same rights and opportunities for all the
people living in Northern Ireland, irrespective of
their background or religion. Throughout those
years I have maintained that, when you have a
divided people, violence has absolutely no role
to play in healing the division or in solving the
problems—it only deepens the division. The
problem can be resolved only through peace, stability, agreement, consensus and partnership.
There cannot be victory for one side or the other.

7

6

3

Denmark-FRPd
2

Germany-REP
Italy-MS-FT

1

Sweden-NyD
0

1990

1995

2000

2002

Source: Electionworld.org 2004; Ignazi 2003; Jackman and Volpert 1996;
Widfeldt 2004; Susning.nu 2004; Swedish Election Authority 2002.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

than, say, greed, and claim that such laws come
close to prosecuting thoughts not deeds, perilous
territory for democracies.
The case for hate crime legislation rests on
two premises. First, hate crimes have symbolic
relevance—they are intended to send a message to an entire community and therefore, in
a sense, threaten all its members. The crime is
greater than the physical or verbal assault involved. Second, a potential victim can do little
to prevent attack. Since it is religious or ethnic
identity that motivates such crimes—often immutable characteristics—the threat is constant.
Cultural liberty is about allowing individuals
to make choices; hate crime is about coercing
them into a straitjacket of someone else’s design.
Having hate crime laws on the books is not
enough. To identify potential threats countries
need to collect data on hate crimes or xenophobic violence. The European Monitoring
Centre on Racism and Xenophobia, which assists EU countries with standard procedures
for collecting such data, undertakes comparative analysis for the region. States must also
have the political will to take a stand against intolerance. Of the 191 member states of the
United Nations, 56 states (29%) have not ratified

the International Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide (indicator table 30).
Paying attention to school curricula. States
should ensure that religious schools are not
exempt from state regulation and that their students receive a broad-based education. Some
countries have made encouraging efforts in this
direction. Pakistan recently sanctioned a $100
million programme for including secular subjects
in the curricula of religious schools.16 In Malaysia
the government is introducing the J-QAF project to incorporate a comprehensive Islamic studies syllabus in the national education system;
students will thus get both religious and secular
education. In Indonesia since the early 20th
century the Muhammadiyah and Nahdlatul
Ulama movements have run schools that have the
same syllabus as public schools in addition to their
religious curriculum. The State University of
Islamic Studies also promotes humanities and social sciences within Islamic education systems.
The curriculum of state schools also deserves attention. UNESCO has been engaged in
several projects in Central America, western
and southern Africa and southeastern Europe
for the promotion of human rights in teacher

States must have the
political will to take a
stand against intolerance

BOX 4.5

United States—targeting intolerance and hatred
The United States has used a mix of strategies to
respond to cultural extremism. These strategies
have targeted intolerance, but they have not
compromised fundamental rights and freedoms.
Protecting freedom of speech
and expression
The United States targeted the Ku Klux Klan in
the 1920s and American Nazis in the 1930s. But
since then the evolution of the US legal system has
been towards strongly defending the First Amendment to the Constitution, which guarantees freedom of speech and the right to assemble peaceably.
A famous case during the 1970s involved the neoNazi National Socialist Party (NSPA), which demanded the right to march in Skokie, Illinois, a
town with a large Jewish population. In 1978 the
Illinois Supreme Court permitted the NSPA to
march, arguing that “[s]peech can be restricted
only when it interferes in a physical way with other
legitimate activities” (Pehdazur 2001, p. 349).

Recording hate crimes
Yet the United States also has been recording
hate crimes for a longer time than many other
countries. In 1990 Congress enacted the Hate
Crimes Statistics Act and amended it in 1994.
Hate crimes are categorized according to the
bias-motivation for a criminal act—race, religion, ethnicity, disability and sexual orientation.
Law enforcement agencies have several guidelines to objectively determine whether a crime
was motivated by a bias—clothing, drawings
and symbols, oral and written comments, acts on
religious holidays and so forth. Lately, debate has
begun on extending the scope of biases considered as hate crimes. A bill was introduced in the
Oregon State Senate to extend the law to ecoterrorist and anti-capitalist actions.
Prosecuting militants
In the United States criminal prosecutions and civil
law suits have been pursued with vigour against

violent racist groups, with long jail sentences
handed down to their leaders. Consequently, several groups have become bankrupt and fallen
into disarray in recent years—Aryan Nations, the
Creativity Movement, Greater Ministries International. Others, like the Hammerskin Nation,
have also suffered but continue to pose a threat.
Helping communities
Finally, the Department of Justice has tried to
resolve hate crimes at the community level. It established the Community Relations Service in
1964 to provide several services targeted at reducing hate crime activity: mediation to resolve
communitywide tensions; technical assistance
and training for local officials, police officers
and residents on how to recognize hate crimes
and share information; public awareness programmes and planning for contingencies such as
marches and demonstrations that might exacerbate tensions.

Source: ADL 2003; De Kadt 2004; DoJ 2001; FBI 1999; Levin 2001; Pehdazur 2001.

CONFRONTING MOVEMENTS FOR CULTURAL DOMINATION

83

To choke off coercive
movements for cultural
domination, states need
to respond constructively,
openly and legitimately
to the forces that
animate them

84

training programmes. The Asia-Pacific Centre
of Education for International Understanding,
in the Republic of Korea, develops education
curricula to promote understanding of diverse
cultures in the region. Cameroon’s teacher training programmes include courses on tolerance
and international understanding. Subjects like
ethics and civics have become compulsory in primary and secondary education. Croatia has
begun producing textbooks incorporating
human rights education in both national (nursery, primary and secondary) and non-formal
education programmes.
Helping communities come to terms with
past hatred and violence. Coercive movements,
often the product of entrenched historical antagonisms, cannot be wiped out unless these antagonisms are dealt with. South Africa’s Truth
and Reconciliation Commission set in motion
successful efforts in this direction. The use of
community institutions (like the Gacaca Courts
in Rwanda) appears to have had some success
in healing wounds in the community. Communities in Angola and Mozambique are using traditional purification rituals to help traumatized
child soldiers re-establish relations with their

families and larger communities. In Sweden
joint projects between police and schools and
youth centres have reduced ethnic tensions and
provide alternative activities for youth.17
As countries like Afghanistan emerge from
violent conflict, efforts to keep coercive movements at bay require strong state institutions (inclusive constitutions, fair legislative processes
and independent judiciaries) and sound strategies for reintegration. Over several decades
the United States has used such a mix of policies to effectively target racist groups and
individuals. Criminal acts are met with force,
but fundamental rights have also been protected (box 4.5).
*

*

*

Movements for cultural domination exist because they tap into people’s real grievances and
concerns. Wishing them away, pretending they
do not exist or simply outlawing them only gives
them more legitimacy to grow. To choke off
coercive movements for cultural domination,
states need to respond constructively, openly and
legitimately to the forces that animate them.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

CHAPTER 5

Globalization and cultural choice

“I do not want my house to be walled in on
all sides and my windows to be stuffed. I
want the cultures of all lands to be blown
about my house as freely as possible. But I
refuse to be blown off my feet by any.”
—Mahatma Gandhi1
When historians write of the world’s recent history, they are likely to reflect on two trends: the
advance of globalization and the spread of
democracy. Globalization has been the more
contentious, because it has effects both good and
bad, and democracy has opened space for people to protest the bad effects. So, controversies
rage over the environmental, economic and social consequences of globalization. But there is
another domain of globalization, that of culture and identity, which is just as controversial
and even more divisive because it engages ordinary people, not just economists, government
officials and political activists.
Globalization has increased contacts between people and their values, ideas and ways
of life in unprecedented ways (feature 5.1). People are travelling more frequently and more
widely. Television now reaches families in the
deepest rural areas of China. From Brazilian
music in Tokyo to African films in Bangkok, to
Shakespeare in Croatia, to books on the history
of the Arab world in Moscow, to the CNN
world news in Amman, people revel in the diversity of the age of globalization.
For many people this new diversity is exciting, even empowering, but for some it is disquieting and disempowering. They fear that
their country is becoming fragmented, their values lost as growing numbers of immigrants
bring new customs and international trade and
modern communications media invade every
corner of the world, displacing local culture.
Some even foresee a nightmarish scenario of
cultural homogenization—with diverse national

GLOBALIZATION AND CULTURAL CHOICE

cultures giving way to a world dominated by
Western values and symbols. The questions go
deeper. Do economic growth and social progress
have to mean adoption of dominant Western values? Is there only one model for economic policy, political institutions and social values?
The fears come to a head over investment,
trade and migration policies. Indian activists
protest the patenting of the neem tree by foreign
pharmaceutical companies. Anti-globalization
movements protest treating cultural goods the
same as any other commodity in global trade and
investment agreements. Groups in Western Europe oppose the entry of foreign workers and
their families. What these protesters have in
common is the fear of losing their cultural identity, and each contentious issue has sparked
widespread political mobilization.
How should governments respond? This
chapter argues that policies that regulate the advance of economic globalization—the movements of people, capital, goods and ideas—must
promote, rather than quash, cultural freedoms.
It looks at three policy challenges that are among
the most divisive in today’s public debates:
• Indigenous people, extractive industries
and traditional knowledge. Controversy
rages over the importance of extractive industries for national economic growth and
the socio-economic and cultural exclusion
and dislocation of indigenous people that
often accompany mining activities. Indigenous people’s traditional knowledge is recognized by the Convention on Biological
Diversity but not by the global intellectual
property rights regime as embodied in the
World Intellectual Property Organization
and the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights agreement.
• Trade in cultural goods. International trade
and investment negotiations have been
divided over the question of a “cultural

Policies that regulate the
advance of economic
globalization must
promote, rather than
quash, cultural freedoms

85

Feature 5.1 What’s new about globalization’s implications for identity politics?

Indigenous people and flows of
investment and knowledge
Globalization has accelerated the flows of investment that profoundly affect the livelihoods
of many indigenous people. In the last 20 years
more than 70 countries have strengthened legislation to promote investment in extractive industries such as oil, gas and mining. Foreign
investment in these sectors is up sharply (figure
1). For example, investments in mining exploration and development in Africa doubled between 1990 and 1997.2
Because so many of the world’s untapped
natural resources are located in indigenous
people’s territories, the global spread of investments in mining and the survival of indigenous people are inextricably linked (see
map 5.1 and table 5.1). These trends have increased pressure on indigenous people’s
territories, resulting in forcible displacement
in Colombia, Ghana, Guyana, Indonesia,
Malaysia, Peru and the Philippines.3 If current trends continue, most large mines may
end up being on the territory of indigenous
people.4
Globalization has also heightened demand for knowledge as an economic resource.
Indigenous people have a rich resource of
traditional knowledge—about plants with

86

medicinal value, food varieties that consumers
demand and other valuable knowledge. Entrepreneurs were quick to see the market potential if they could patent and sell this
knowledge. So traditional knowledge is increasingly misappropriated, with many “inventions” falsely awarded patents. Examples
include the medicinal properties of the sacred
Ayahuasca plant in the Amazon basin
(processed by indigenous communities for
centuries); the Maca plant in Peru, which enhances fertility (known by Andean Indians
when the Spanish arrived in the 16th century); and a pesticidal extract from the neem
tree used in India for its antiseptic properties
(common knowledge since ancient times).
Developing countries seldom have the resources to challenge false patents in foreign
jurisdictions—indigenous people even less so.
A March 2000 study concluded that 7,000
patents had been granted for the unauthorized
use of traditional knowledge or the misappropriation of medicinal plants.5
But indigenous groups are increasingly assertive. Globalization has made it easier for indigenous people to organize, raise funds and
network with other groups around the world,
with greater political reach and impact than
before. The United Nations declared 1995–2004
the International Decade for the World’s Indigenous People, and in 2000 the Permanent
Forum on Indigenous Issues was created. In August 2003 the Canadian government recognized the ownership claims of the Tlicho Indians
over a diamond-rich area in the Northwest Territories. In October 2003 the Constitutional
Court of South Africa ruled that indigenous

Figure

Rapid increases in investments
in extractive industries in
developing countries, 1988–97

1

Inflows in mining, quarrying and petroleum
Millions of US$

Cross-border flows of investment and knowledge, films and other cultural goods, and people are not new phenomena. Indigenous people
have struggled for centuries to maintain their
identity and way of life against the tide of foreign economic investment and the new settlers that often come with it. As chapter 2
shows, new settlers have spread their culture,
sometimes by design, often by failing to respect indigenous ways of life. Similarly, the
free flow of films has been an essential part of
the development of the industry since the early
20th century. And people have moved across
national borders from the earliest times. International migration has risen in recent
decades but is still below 3% of world population, no higher than it was when it last peaked
100 years ago.1
What makes these flows a stronger source
of identity politics today? Are old problems
worsening? Are new problems emerging? Or
are people simply freer, with more capacity to
claim their rights? For each case, the answer
is different but contains an element of all
three.

5,671

6,000
5,000
4,000

3,580
1988 1997

3,000
2,037
2,000
1,219
1,000

561

599

0

South and
East Asia
Source: UNCTAD 1999.

Latin America

Developing
countries

people had both communal land ownership
and mineral rights over their territory and that
attempts to dispossess them constituted racial
discrimination. Indigenous people now own
or control more than 16% of Australia, with the
Indigenous Land Corporation expected to be
fully funded with a A$1.3 billion capital base,
to be used to purchase land for indigenous
people unable to gain ownership by other
means.6
Flows of cultural goods—films and other
audiovisual products
The controversy over cultural goods in international trade and investment agreements has
intensified because of exponential growth in
the quantity of trade, increasing concentration
of the film industry in Hollywood and the growing influence of films and entertainment on
youth lifestyles.
World trade in cultural goods—cinema,
photography, radio and television, printed
matter, literature, music and visual arts—
quadrupled, from $95 billion in 1980 to more
than $380 billion in 1998.7 About four-fifths of
these flows originate in 13 countries.8 Hollywood
reaches 2.6 billion people around the world,
and Bollywood 3.6 billion.9
In the film industry US productions regularly account for about 85% of film audiences worldwide.10 In the audiovisual trade
with just the European Union, the United
States had an $8.1 billion surplus in 2000, divided equally between films and television
rights.11 Of 98 countries around the world
with comparable data, only 8 produced more
films than they imported annually in the
1990s.12 China, India and the Philippines are
among the largest producers in the number of
films per year. But the evidence changes when
revenue is considered. Of global production
of more than 3,000 films a year Hollywood accounted for more than 35% of total industry
revenues. Furthermore, in 1994–98, in 66 of
73 countries with data, the United States was
the first or second major country of origin of
imported films.13
The European film industry, by contrast,
has been in decline over the past three decades.
Production is down in Italy, which produced
92 films in 1998, and Spain, which produced
85, while remaining unchanged in the United
Kingdom and Germany.14 France is the exception. Production there increased to 183
films in 1998.15 The share of domestic films

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

viewed between 1984 and 2001 declined dramatically in much of Europe, with the exception of France and Germany, where policies
support the domestic film industry. For the
same period, the share of US films increased
across most of the continent (figure 2).
The international dominance of US films
is just one aspect of the spread of Western
consumer culture. New satellite communications technologies in the 1980s gave rise to a
powerful new medium with global reach and
to such global media networks as CNN. The
number of television sets per thousand people
worldwide more than doubled, from 113 in
1980 to 229 in 1995. It has grown to 243 since
then.16 Consumption patterns are now global.
Market research has identified a “global elite”,
a global middle class that follows the same
consumption style and prefers “global brands”.
Most striking are “global teens”, who inhabit
a “global space”, a single pop culture world,
soaking up the same videos and music and
providing a huge market for designer running
shoes, t-shirts and jeans.

Top 10 countries by share of migrant
population, 2000
(Percent)
United Arab Emirates
Kuwait
Jordan
Israel
Singapore
Oman
Switzerland
Australia
Saudi Arabia
New Zealand

GLOBALIZATION AND CULTURAL CHOICE

68
49
39
37
34
26
25
25
24
22

•

Irregular migration has reached unprecedented levels: up to 30 million people
worldwide do not have legal residency status in the country where they live.21

•

Circular migration. People who decide
to migrate today are more likely to return
to their place of birth, or to move on to a
third country, than to stay in the first
country to which they migrate. With
cheaper communication and travel, migrants stay in closer touch with their home
communities.

•

Diaspora network. Having friends and
family abroad makes migration easier. Diaspora networks provide shelter, work
and assistance with bureaucracy. So migrants coming from the same country tend
to concentrate where others have settled:
92% of Algerian immigrants to Europe
live in France, and 81% of Greek immigrants in Germany.22 Chinese illegal emigration has swelled the diaspora to some
30–50 million people.23

•

Remittances. In little more than 10 years
remittances to developing countries went
from $30 billion in 1990 to nearly $80 billion in 2002.24 Remittances sent from Salvadorans abroad amounted to 13.3% of El
Salvador’s GDP in 2000.25

•

Asylum seekers and refugees. About
9% of the world’s migrants are refugees
(16 million people). Europe hosted more
than 2 million political asylum seekers
in 2000, four times more than North
America.26

•

Feminization. Women have always migrated as family members, but today more
women are migrating alone for work
abroad, leaving their families at home. For
the Philippines, women made up 70% of
migrant workers abroad in 2000.27

Source: UN 2003a.

Politics also influence the flow of people.
Repression can push people to leave; so can
greater openness. Political transitions in the
former Soviet Union, Eastern Europe and the
Baltics made it possible for many people to
leave for the first time in decades. But more
than the numeric increase, the structure of migration has changed radically.
Changing demographics. For Western Europe, Australia and North America, the
growth in migration in the last decade was
almost entirely concentrated in flows from

•

Figure

Fewer domestic films, more US
films: evolving film attendance,
1984–2001

2

Percent

Share of US films
100
81

1984

80

66

62

60
47

77

74

2001

60

53

48

39

40
20
0

US

France Italy

Spain

UK Germany

0
5
20

19
34

40
45 42
60

Percent

Flows of people
Policies on immigration have become socially divisive in many countries. Debates are not just
about jobs and competition for social welfare resources but about culture—whether immigrants
should be required to adopt the language and
values of their new society. Why are these issues
more prominent today? What has globalization
got to do with it?
Globalization is quantitatively and qualitatively reshaping international movements of
people, with more migrants going to highincome countries and wanting to maintain their
cultural identities and ties with their home countries (table 1).
People have always moved across borders,
but the numbers have grown over the last three
decades. The number of international migrants—people living outside their country of
birth—grew from 76 million in 1960 to 154
million in 1990 and 175 million in 2000.17 Technological advances make travel and communication easier, faster and cheaper. The price of
a plane ticket from Nairobi to London fell from
$24,000 in 1960 to $2,000 in 2000.18 The telephone, the Internet and the global media bring
the realities of life across the globe into the living room, making people aware of disparities in
wages and living conditions—and eager to improve their prospects.

poor to rich countries. In the 1990s the
foreign-born population in more developed
regions increased by 23 million.19 Today, almost 1 in 10 people living in those countries
was born elsewhere.20

TABLE 1

22

18

17

17 16

80
100

97 94

Share of domestic films
Source: Cohen 2004.

Source: ATSIA 2003; CSD and ICC 2002; Moody 2000; WIPO
2003d; World Bank 2004; Cohen 2004; Kapur and McHale
2003; IOM 2003b, 2003c, 2004; UN 2002a, 2002b, 2003a.

87

The aim of multicultural
policies is to protect
cultural liberty and
expand people’s
choices—in the ways
people live and identify
themselves—and not to
penalize them for these
choices

exception” for films and audiovisual goods,
which would permit them to be treated differently from other goods.
• Immigration. Managing the inflow and integration of foreign migrants requires responding to anti-immigrant groups, who
argue that the national culture is threatened, and to migrant groups, who demand
respect for their ways of life.
The extreme positions in these debates often
provoke regressive responses that are nationalistic, xenophobic and conservative: close the country off from all outside influences and preserve
tradition. That defence of national culture comes
at great costs to development and to human
choice. This report argues that these extreme
positions are not the way to protect local cultures
and identities. There need not be a choice between
protecting local identities and adopting open
policies to global flows of migrants, foreign films
and knowledge and capital. The challenge for
countries around the world is to design countryspecific policies that widen choices rather than
narrow them by supporting and protecting national identities while also keeping borders open.
GLOBALIZATION AND MULTICULTURALISM
The impact of globalization on cultural liberty
deserves special attention. Previous Human
Development Reports have addressed sources
of economic exclusion, such as trade barriers that
keep markets closed to poor countries’ exports,
and of political exclusion, such as the weak
voice of developing countries in trade negotiations. Removing such barriers will not itself
eliminate a third type of exclusion: cultural exclusion. That requires new approaches based on
multicultural policies.
Global flows of goods, ideas, people and
capital can seem a threat to national culture in
many ways. They can lead to the abandonment
of traditional values and practices and the dismantling of the economic basis on which the survival of indigenous cultures depends. When
such global flows lead to cultural exclusion,
multicultural policies are needed to manage
trade, immigration and investments in ways that
recognize cultural differences and identities.
And the exclusion of traditional knowledge

88

from global regimes for intellectual property
needs to be explicitly recognized, as does the cultural impact of such goods as films and the cultural identity of immigrants.
The aim of multicultural policies is not to
preserve tradition, however, but to protect cultural liberty and expand people’s choices—in the
ways people live and identify themselves—and
not to penalize them for these choices. Preserving tradition can help to keep the options
open, but people should not be bound in an immutable box called “a culture”. Unfortunately,
today’s debates about globalization and the loss
of cultural identity have often been argued in
terms of upholding national sovereignty, preserving the ancient heritage of indigenous people and safeguarding national culture in the
face of growing inflows of foreign people, films,
music and other goods. But cultural identities
are heterogeneous and evolving—they are dynamic processes in which internal inconsistencies and conflicts drive change (box 5.1).
Four principles should inform a strategy
for multiculturalism in globalization:
• Defending tradition can hold back human
development.
• Respecting difference and diversity is
essential.
• Diversity thrives in a globally interdependent
world when people have multiple and complementary identities and belong not only to
a local community and a country but also to
humanity at large.
• Addressing imbalances in economic and political power helps to forestall threats to the
cultures of poorer and weaker communities.
DEFENDING

TRADITION CAN HOLD BACK

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT

The first principle is that tradition should not
be confused with freedom of choice. As chapter 1 points out, “To argue for cultural diversity on the ground that this is what the different
groups of people have inherited is clearly not reasoning based on cultural liberty”. Furthermore,
tradition can work against cultural freedom.
“Cultural conservatism can discourage—or
prevent—people from adopting a different
lifestyle, indeed even from joining the lifestyle

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

that others, from a different cultural background, standardly follow in the society in question.” There is much to cherish in traditional
values and practices, and much that is consonant
with universal values of human rights. But there
is also much that is challenged by universal
ethics, such as inheritance laws that are biased
against women, or decision-making procedures
that are not participatory and democratic.
Taking the extreme position of preserving
tradition at all cost can hold back human development. Some indigenous people fear that
their ancient cultural practices are endangered
by the inflow of foreign investment in extractive
industries or that sharing traditional knowledge
necessarily leads to its misuse. Some have reacted
to violations of their cultural identity by shutting out all new ideas and change, trying to preserve tradition at all cost. Such reactions reduce
not only cultural choices but also social and
economic choices for indigenous people. Similarly, anti-immigrant groups often defend national identities in the name of tradition. This
narrows their choices as well by shutting countries off from the socio-economic benefits of immigration, which brings new skills and workers
to an economy. And defending national cultural industries through protectionism reduces
the choices for consumers.
In no society are lifestyles or values static. Anthropologists have discarded concerns with reifying cultures and now see importance in how
cultures change, continuously influenced by internal conflicts and contradictions (see box 5.1).

BOX 5.1

Culture—paradigm shift in anthropology
For many years, defining cultural and social
anthropology as the study of the cultural
dimension of people would have raised few
objections. “A culture” was understood as
synonymous with what before had been
called “a people”.
During the past two decades, however,
the concept of “culture”, and by extension
the idea of “cultural difference” and the
underlying assumptions of homogeneity,
holism and integrity, have been re-evaluated.
Cultural difference is no longer viewed as a
stable, exotic otherness. Self-other relations
are increasingly considered to be matters
of power and rhetoric rather than essence.
And cultures are increasingly conceived of
as reflecting processes of change and internal contradictions and conflicts.
But just as anthropologists were losing
faith in the concept of coherent, stable and
bounded cultural “wholes”, the concept was
being embraced by a wide range of culture
builders worldwide. Anthropological works

are increasingly being consulted by people trying to assign to groups the kinds of generalized cultural identities that anthropologists
now find deeply problematic. Today, politicians, economists and the general public want
culture defined in precisely the bounded,
reified, essentialized and timeless fashion recently discarded by anthropologists.
Culture and cultural diversity have become political and juridical realities, as stated
in the first Article of the UNESCO Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity
(2001): “cultural diversity is as necessary
for humankind as biodiversity is for nature.
In this sense, it is the common heritage of
humanity and should be recognized and affirmed for the benefit of present and future
generations”. Many people have grasped at
least part of the anthropological message:
culture is there, it is learned, it permeates
everyday life, it is important and it is far
more responsible for differences among
human groups than are genes.

Source: Preis 2004 citing Brumann 1999; Clifford 1988; Rosaldo 1989; Olwig, Fog and Hastrup 1997; UNESCO 2002.

it is not diversity that inevitably leads to conflict
but the suppression of cultural identity and social, political and economic exclusion on the
basis of culture that can spark violence and tensions. People may be fearful of diversity and its
consequences, but it is opposition to diversity—
as in the positions of anti-immigrant groups—that
can polarize societies and that fuels social tensions.
DEVELOPING

MULTIPLE AND

COMPLEMENTARY IDENTITIES — LIVING

RESPECTING

DIVERSITY

The second principle is that diversity is not an
end in itself but, as chapter 1 points out, it promotes cultural liberty and enriches people’s
lives. It is an outcome of the freedoms people
have and the choices they make. It also implies
an opportunity to assess different options in
making these choices. If local cultures disappear
and countries become homogeneous, the scope
for choice is reduced.
Much of the fear of a loss of national identity
and culture comes from the belief that cultural diversity inevitably leads to conflict or to failed development. As chapter 2 explains, this is a myth:

GLOBALIZATION AND CULTURAL CHOICE

LOCALLY AND GLOBALLY

The third principle is that globalization can expand cultural freedoms only if all people develop
multiple and complementary identities as citizens of the world as well as citizens of a state and
members of a cultural group. Just as a culturally
diverse state can build unity on multiple and
complementary identities (chapter 3), a culturally
diverse world needs to do the same. As globalization proceeds, this means not only recognizing
local and national identities but also strengthening commitments to being citizens of the world.
Today’s intensified global interactions can
function well only if governed by bonds of

89

Multiple and
complementary identities
are a reality in many
countries

shared values, communication and commitment. Cooperation among people and nations
with different interests is more likely when all
are bound and motivated by shared values and
commitments. Global culture is not about the
English language or brand name sneakers—it is
about universal ethics based on universal human
rights and respect for the freedom, equality and
dignity of all individuals (box 5.2).
Today’s interactions also require respect for
difference—respect for the cultural heritage of
the thousands of cultural groups in the world.
Some people believe that there are contradictions
between the values of some cultural traditions
and advances in development and democracy.
As chapter 2 shows, there is no objective evidence for claiming that some cultures are “inferior” or “superior” for human progress and the
expansion of human freedoms.
States develop national identities not only to
unify the population but also to project an identity different from that of others. But unchanging

notions of identity can lead to morbid mistrust
of people and things foreign—to wanting to bar
immigrants, fearing that they would not be loyal
to their adopted country or its values, or wanting to block flows of cultural goods and ideas,
fearing that homogenizing forces would destroy
their national arts and heritage. But identities are
seldom singular. Multiple and complementary
identities are a reality in many countries—and
people have a sense of belonging to the country as well as to a group or groups within it.
ADDRESSING

ASYMMETRIC POWER

The fourth principle is that asymmetries in
flows of ideas and goods need to be addressed,
so that some cultures do not dominate others
because of their economic power. The unequal
economic and political powers of countries,
industries and corporations cause some cultures to spread, others to wither. Hollywood’s
powerful film industry, with access to enor-

BOX 5.2

Sources of global ethics
All cultures share a commonality of basic values
that are the foundation of global ethics. That individuals can have multiple and complementary identities suggests that they can find these
commonalities of values.
Global ethics are not the imposition of
“Western” values on the rest of the world. To
think so would be both artificially restrictive of
the scope of global ethics and an insult to other
cultures, religions and communities. The principal source of global ethics is the idea of human
vulnerability and the desire to alleviate the suffering of every individual to the extent possible.
Another source is the belief in the basic moral
equality of all human beings. The injunction to
treat others as you would want to be treated
finds explicit mention in Buddhism, Christianity, Confucianism, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism,
Taoism and Zoroastrianism, and it is implicit in
the practices of other faiths.
It is on the basis of these common teachings across all cultures that states have come together to endorse the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights, supported by the International
Covenants on Civil and Political Rights and on
Economic and Social Rights. Regional treaties,
such as the European Convention for the
Protection of Human Rights, the American

Convention of Human Rights and the African
Charter on Human and People’s Rights, have
taken similar initiatives. More recently, the UN’s
Millennium Declaration, adopted by the full
membership of the General Assembly in 2000,
recommitted itself to human rights, fundamental freedoms and respect for equal rights to all
without distinction.
There are five core elements of global ethics.
• Equity. Recognizing the equality of all individuals regardless of class, race, gender,
community or generation is the ethos of
universal values. Equity also envelops the
need to preserve the environment and natural resources that can be used by future
generations.
• Human rights and responsibilities. Human
rights are an indispensable standard of international conduct. The basic concern is to
protect the integrity of all individuals from
threats to freedom and equality. The focus
on individual rights acknowledges their expression of equity between individuals,
which outweighs any claims made on behalf
of group and collective values. But with
rights come duties: bonds without options
are oppressive; options without bonds are
anarchy.

•

•

•

Democracy. Democracy serves multiple
ends: providing political autonomy, safeguarding fundamental rights and creating
conditions for the full participation of citizens in economic development. At the global
level democratic standards are essential for
ensuring participation and giving voice to
poor countries, marginalized communities
and discriminated against minorities.
Protection of minorities. Discrimination
against minorities occurs at several levels:
non-recognition, denial of political rights,
socio-economic exclusion and violence.
Global ethics cannot be comprehensive unless minorities receive recognition and equal
rights within a larger national and global
community. The promotion of tolerance is
central to the process.
Peaceful conflict resolution and fair negotiation. Justice and fairness cannot be
achieved by imposing pre-conceived moral
principles. Resolution of disagreements must
be sought through negotiations. All parties
deserve a say. Global ethics does not mean
a single path towards peace or development
or modernization. It is a framework within
which societies can find peaceful solutions
to problems.

Source: World Commission on Culture and Development 1995; UN 2000a.

90

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

SPECIAL CONTRIBUTION
Indigenous peoples and development
Development divorced from its human or cultural context is growth without a soul. Economic development in its full flowering is
part of a people’s culture.
—World Commission on Culture
and Development 1995
Indigenous peoples are proponents and representatives of humanity’s cultural diversity.
Historically, however, indigenous peoples have
been marginalized by dominant societies and have
often faced assimilation and cultural genocide.
In the multicultural societies growing up
around them, indigenous peoples seek an end to
such marginalization and fringe dwelling. They

have much to contribute to society, and they
bring to both national and international debates
valuable advice about the great issues facing humanity in this new millennium.
In May 2003 the Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues stressed in its Second Session the
importance of recognizing cultural diversity in
development processes and the need for all development to be sustainable. Recommendation
8 of the Second Session calls for “instituting a
legal framework that makes cultural, environmental and social impact assessment studies
mandatory” (E/2003/43). The forum also expressed concern over development practices
that do not take into account the characteristics

mous resources, can squeeze the Mexican film
industry and other small competitors out of
existence. Powerful corporations can outbid indigenous people in using land rich in resources.
Powerful countries can outnegotiate weak countries in recognition of traditional knowledge in
World Trade Organization (WTO) agreements.
Powerful and exploitative employers can victimize defenceless migrants.
FLOWS OF INVESTMENT AND KNOWLEDGE—
INCLUDING INDIGENOUS PEOPLE IN A
GLOBALLY INTEGRATED WORLD

Indigenous people see globalization as a threat
to their cultural identities, their control over
territory and their centuries-old traditions of
knowledge and artistic expression (see feature
5.1). They fear that the cultural significance of
their territories and knowledge will go unrecognized—or that they will receive inadequate
compensation for these cultural assets. In these
situations globalization is often blamed.
One reaction is to opt out of the global
economy and to oppose the flows of goods and
ideas. Another is to preserve tradition for its own
sake, without accounting for individual choice
or democratic decision-making. But there are alternatives. Preserving cultural identity need not
require staying out of the global economy. There
are ways of ensuring the cultural and socioeconomic inclusion of indigenous people based

GLOBALIZATION AND CULTURAL CHOICE

of indigenous communities as groups, thus significantly undermining meaningful ways of participatory development.
Indigenous peoples have dynamic living cultures and seek their place in the modern world.
They are not against development, but for too
long they have been victims of development and
now demand to be participants in—and to benefit from—a development that is sustainable.

Ole Henrik Magga
Chairman of the UN Permanent
Forum on Indigenous Issues

on respect for cultural traditions and the sharing of the economic benefits of resource use.
WHY

DO SOME INDIGENOUS PEOPLE FEEL

THREATENED ?

Central to ensuring the inclusion of indigenous
people in a global world are how national governments and international institutions deal
with investments in indigenous territories and
protect traditional knowledge. The historical territories of indigenous people are often rich in
minerals and oil and gas deposits (map 5.1,
table 5.1 and feature 5.1). That can set up the
potential for conflict between promoting national economic growth through extractive industries and protecting the cultural identity
and economic livelihood of indigenous people.
The traditional knowledge, innovations and
practices of indigenous people, developed over
many generations and collectively owned by
the community, can have practical uses in agriculture, forestry and health. Conflict can arise
between recognizing collective ownership and
following the modern intellectual property
regime, which focuses on individual rights.
Extractive industries. The cultural identity
and socio-economic equity of indigenous people can be threatened in several ways by the activities of extractive industries. First, there is
inadequate recognition of the cultural significance of the land and territories that indigenous

91

TABLE 5.1

Map

Indigenous population in
Latin America

5.1

Much extractive and infrastructural
activity in developing countries is
in areas where indigenous people
live

Percent
Country

71.0
66.0
47.0
38.0
15.0
14.0
10.0
8.0
7.0
5.0
1.8
1.5
1.0
0.9
0.8
0.4
0.4

Source: De Ferranti and others 2003.

Latin America, 2003
BELIZE
HONDURAS
NICARAGUA

MEXICO
GUATEMALA
EL SALVADOR

GUYANA
SURINAME
FRENCH GUIANA

VENEZUELA
COLOMBIA

COSTA RICA
PANAMA
ECUADOR

BRAZIL
PERU
BOLIVIA
PA

RA

GU

AY

CHILE

Bolivia
Guatemala
Peru
Ecuador
Honduras
Mexico
Panama
Chile
El Salvador
Nicaragua
Colombia
Paraguay
Argentina
Venezuela
Costa Rica
Brazil
Uruguay

Share of total
population

PACIFIC OCEAN
ARGENTINA

Note: Black dots represent
areas with high prevalence of
indigenous people and with
intense extractive and infrastructural activities (mining, oil
exploration, dam and road
construction, industrial agriculture,
fisheries, electricity plants,
biopiracy, logging).

URUGUAY

SOUTH
ATLANTIC
OCEAN

UT
HC
HIN
A SE A

South-East Asia and Pacific, 2003

THAILAND

PHILIPPINES

NORTHERN
MARIANA
ISLANDS

SO
BRUNEI

PACIFIC OCEAN
MALAYSIA
PAPUA
NEW
GUINEA
INDONESIA
INDIAN OCEAN

TIMOR-LESTE

Source: Tebtebba and International Forum on Globalization 2003.

people inhabit. Indigenous people have strong
spiritual connections to their land, which is
why some of them oppose any investment in
extractive industries within their territories. For
instance, some groups of San Bushmen in
Botswana oppose the exploration licences that
the government has granted to Kalahari Diamonds Ltd.
Second, there is plausible concern about
the impact of extractive industries on local livelihoods. When mineral extraction leads to the
widespread displacement of communities and
loss of their farmlands, it affects both their sense
of cultural identity and their source of sustainable livelihood. The Lihir Gold Mine in Papua
New Guinea has destroyed sacred sites of the

92

Lihirians and sharply reduced their ability to subsist by hunting game.
Third, indigenous groups complain about
unfair exclusion from decision-making. And
when consultations with local communities do
occur, they often leave much to be desired. Keeping such concerns in mind, the World Bank used
a new approach to support the Chad–Cameroon
Pipeline project.2 By law, net incomes were to be
deposited in an offshore account to ensure annual publication of audits and reduce corruption.
Further, 10% of revenues were earmarked for a
Future Generations Fund. Civil society representatives and a member of the opposition were
to be part of a monitoring board. The project had
to comply with the Bank’s safeguard policies on
environmental assessments and resettlement.
And two new national parks were planned to
compensate for the loss of a small forest area. The
project highlights the innovative steps international institutions are taking to build capacity and
transparency and ensure targeted benefit sharing.
But some indigenous groups believe that this
has been inadequate. Fewer than 5% of the
Bagyéli people affected by the pipeline were employed on the project. They received little compensation and few of the promised health care
facilities.3 In countries with very weak institutional
structures, project partners face major challenges
in effectively implementing well conceived projects. This does not mean that investments need
to be stopped; rather, even greater efforts are
needed.
Fourth, indigenous people feel cheated when
their physical resources are misappropriated
without adequate compensation. There was very
limited involvement of local people on the Yanacocha gold mine in the Cajamarca region in
Peru (a joint venture between Peruvian and US
mining companies and the International Finance
Corporation). Some of the tax revenues were to
go to the indigenous inhabitants, but they received less than they were promised.4 Ecuador
is home to one of the largest confirmed oil reserves in Latin America. Companies pay about
$30 million in taxes for a special Amazon development fund, but little of that money reaches
the indigenous communities.5
These issues highlight the conflict between
national sovereignty over resources and the

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

special rights of indigenous people to their
territories and the mineral resources they contain.
For instance, Ecuador’s Constitution does not
give native Indians any rights to the oil and gas
within their territories. While it is not necessary
that such rights be constitutionally guaranteed,
it is necessary that indigenous people have a say
in the use of resources within their territories.
Traditional knowledge. The traditional
knowledge of indigenous groups has attributes
of communal ownership and sometimes has spiritual significance. Intellectual property regimes
fail to recognize either the community ownership
or spiritual significance of traditional knowledge. The laws protect the work of individual,
identifiable authors or inventors and spell out
how others can use their work. The Quechua Indians in Peru oppose the commercial exploitation of their traditional knowledge but can do
little about it. The Maori in New Zealand believe
that even when their knowledge is publicly disclosed, there is no automatic right to use it—that
right must be determined collectively.
There is also a danger of wrongly awarding
intellectual property rights, so that communities
that have produced, preserved or developed
traditional knowledge over several generations
are not compensated for its use. To qualify for
patent protection an invention must fulfil three
strict criteria: it must be novel, not obvious and
industrially useful. Since traditional knowledge
does not always meet these criteria, the international intellectual property regime does not
explicitly protect it. Researchers can appropriate traditional knowledge and apply for a patent,
claiming to have invented a new product.
Copyright protection can also be wrongly
awarded for the appropriation.
Misappropriation of traditional knowledge
need not be deliberate. Sometimes it arises from
mistakenly treating traditional knowledge as
part of the public domain, where intellectual
property protection does not apply. Traditional
knowledge, because it is known publicly within
the community (and sometimes outside it), is
more prone to appropriation without compensation to the community that developed it than
are other types of intellectual property. The
Sami Council of Scandinavia argues that even
if its knowledge is publicly known, the public

GLOBALIZATION AND CULTURAL CHOICE

domain principle ignores obligations to the
community.
The Convention on Biological Diversity recognizes traditional knowledge, in contrast to
the global intellectual property rights regime administered under the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) and the agreement
on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS). Article 8(j) stipulates that
contracting parties must preserve and maintain
the knowledge and innovations of indigenous
and local communities. It also seeks the wider
application of traditional knowledge “with the
approval and involvement of the holders of
such knowledge” and encourages “equitable
sharing of the benefits”. Article 10(c) of the
convention encourages the “customary use of biological resources in accord with traditional
cultural practices”. The issue, then, is to find
ways to reconcile the provisions of different international intellectual property regimes in order
to protect traditional knowledge for the benefit of the indigenous community and promote
its appropriate use within wider society.
POLICY

The solution is not to block
flows of investment or
knowledge or to preserve
tradition for its own sake.
Human development aims
at expanding an
individual’s choices

OPTIONS AND CHALLENGES FOR

PROTECTING RIGHTS AND SHARING BENEFITS

The solution is not to block flows of investment
or knowledge or to preserve tradition for its own
sake. Human development aims at expanding an
individual’s choices, through growth that favours
the poor and through equitable socio-economic
opportunities within a democratic framework
that protects liberties. Addressing the concerns
of indigenous people will require global, national and corporate policies that advance human
development goals (box 5.3).
International institutions are already looking for ways to mitigate some of the problems.
In 2001 the World Bank commissioned an extractive industries review to determine how
such projects can assist in poverty reduction
and sustainable development. Based on discussions with governments, non-governmental
organizations, indigenous people’s organizations, industry, labour unions and academia,
the 2004 report recommends pro-poor public
and corporate governance, effective social and
environmental policies and respect for human

93

BOX 5.3

Private companies and indigenous people can work together for development
Is it possible for private companies to work cooperatively with indigenous people and to gain
in the process? Yes. Consider these examples.
Pilbara region, Australia
Hamersley Iron Pty Ltd has been exporting ore
from the natural resource–rich Pilbara region
since the mid-1960s. While Aboriginal populations remained concentrated in welfaredependent towns, the company’s need for skilled
labour led to a massive influx into the region of
non-indigenous people. The Aboriginal groups
began to oppose the development of newer
mines and demanded discussions on the company’s activities on traditional lands. In 1992
Hamersley established the Aboriginal Training
and Liaison Unit, to provide job training, increase
business development in the area and improve
infrastructure and living conditions while preserving the aboriginal heritage and culture. By
1997 the Gumala Aboriginal Corporation had
signed joint venture agreements with Hamersley to develop newer mines. Aboriginal men

would receive training in operating machinery,
and services would be contracted to the local
communities. Hamersley would contribute more
than A$60 million for these purposes.
Raglan project, Canada
After a 1975 agreement to settle land ownership
issues in northern Quebec between indigenous
groups and the provincial and federal governments, the Inuit received financial compensation
to set up the Makivik Corporation as a heritage
fund. In 1993 Makivik signed a Memorandum
of Understanding with Falconbridge Ltd (later
the Raglan Agreement) to guarantee benefits
from planned mining projects in the region, including priority employment and contracts for
the Inuit, profit sharing and environmental
monitoring. Falconbridge will pay an estimated
C$70 million to an Inuit trust fund over 18
years. Archaeological sites were also identified
and marked as off limits to mining, and the
rights of Inuit employees to hunt outside the
Raglan site were assured.

Red Dog Mine, United States
In the 1970s the Inupiat people of Northwest
Alaska successfully blocked Cominco Inc.’s
interest in exploiting zinc-lead deposits at the
Red Dog site. After several years of negotiations the Northwest Alaska Native Association
(NANA) and Cominco signed an agreement in
1982 to allow mining to go forward. Cominco
agreed to compensate the Inupiat through
royalties, to include NANA representatives
in an advisory committee, to employ indigenous people and to protect the environment.
In lieu of taxes Red Dog would pay $70 million into the Northwest Arctic Borough over
24 years. By 1998 Cominco had invested $8.8
million in technical training almost entirely
for NANA shareholders employed in the project. NANA has also monitored the impact
on subsistence activities and forced efforts to
reduce effluent flows into streams. Cominco
has maintained a flexible work schedule that
allows Inupiat employees to continue their
traditional way of life.

Source: International Council on Metals and the Environment 1999.

rights. WIPO’s General Assembly established
an Intergovernmental Committee on Intellectual
Property and Genetic Resources, Traditional
Knowledge and Folklore in October 2000. It is
reviewing mechanisms for protecting traditional
knowledge while increasing the participation
of indigenous people.
States and international institutions need
to collaborate in continuing to adjust global
rules and national laws in ways that more
successfully take into account the concerns of
indigenous people, giving them a genuine stake
in the flows of investments, ideas and knowledge.
Three measures are essential:
• Explicitly recognizing indigenous people’s
rights over their physical and intellectual
property.
• Requiring consultations with indigenous
communities and their participation for the
use of any resource, thus ensuring informed
consent.
• Empowering communities by developing
strategies to share benefits.
Loans to companies or countries for projects
that wrongly appropriate property must be
withdrawn, and patents granted to others who

94

have misappropriated traditional knowledge
should be revoked.
Recognizing rights. Many states have laws
that explicitly recognize indigenous people’s
rights over their resources. In a 2002 report
the UK Commission on Intellectual Property
Rights argued that national legislation is needed
to address specific circumstances. The Philippines has laws requiring informed consent for
access to ancestral lands and indigenous knowledge and for equitable sharing of benefits.
Guatemalan law promotes the wider use of traditional knowledge and cultural expressions
by placing them under state protection.
Bangladesh, the Philippines and the African
Union recognize the customary practices of
communities and the community-based rights
to biological resources and associated traditional knowledge.
Requiring participation and consultation.
Including the local community in decisionmaking is not only democratic—it also ensures
against future disruption of projects. Having
learned from the Yanacocha mine, the Antamina zinc and copper mine in Peru involved
indigenous communities in decision-making at

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

the start of operations in 2001. But consultations
have to be meaningful. This requires carefully
identifying the affected groups and providing full
information about the likely costs and benefits
of a project.
Consultations can also prevent the false appropriation of genetic resources and traditional
knowledge. Countries now demand disclosure
of the origin of plants and other genetic material before granting patents. The Andean Communities, Costa Rica and India, among others,
include this provision in laws and regulations.
Documenting traditional knowledge is often
essential for protecting it, as is being done by the
Traditional Knowledge Digital Library in India
and a similar initiative in China. Lao PDR has
a Traditional Medicines Resource Centre. In
Africa, where much traditional knowledge is
oral, documentation would diminish possibilities for uncompensated exploitation of knowledge. But in Latin America some indigenous
people worry that documentation, by making
their knowledge more accessible, would facilitate exploitation.
Documentation does not prejudice rights. It
preserves knowledge in written form and prevents
others from claiming it as their own. WIPO has
an Online Portal of Databases and Registries of

Traditional and Genetic Resources for use by
patent examiners. The Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research has linked its
information to the portal. And India has contributed its Health Heritage Test Database.
Sharing benefits. Opportunities for benefit sharing in extractive industries are extensive, including education, training, preferential
employment for local people, financial compensation, business opportunities and environmental commitments. In Papua New Guinea,
where indigenous communities own 97% of the
land, small mining projects have assisted in
poverty alleviation. At the Bulolo mine a well
planned closure allowed the mining company to
use its infrastructure to develop a timber
plantation—which remains financially viable
35 years after the mine was closed.6 Companies
in other countries have also had success involving local communities in decision-making
and profit sharing.
While multilateral negotiations on protecting traditional knowledge within the intellectual
property rights regime continue, countries are
discovering ways of using existing systems to do
so (box 5.4). Industrial designs protect carpets
and headdresses in Kazakhstan. Geographical
indications protect liquors and teas in Venezuela

Documenting traditional
knowledge is often
essential for protecting it

BOX 5.4

Using intellectual property rights to protect traditional knowledge
Respecting traditional knowledge does not mean
keeping it from the world. It means using it in
ways that benefit the communities from which
it is drawn.
Australia’s intellectual property rights laws do
not cover traditional knowledge, but certification trademarks are used to identify and authenticate products or services provided by indigenous
people. In the 1995 Milpurrurru case—Aboriginal
designs were reproduced on carpets without prior
consent—an Australian court judged that “cultural
harm” had been caused due to trademark violation and awarded compensation of A$70,000
(WIPO 2003c). In the 1998 Bulun Bulun case a
court judgement found that an indigenous person owed fiduciary obligations to his community
and could not exploit indigenous art contrary to
the community’s customary law.
In Canada trademarks are used to protect
traditional symbols, including food products,
clothing and tourist services run by First Nations.

The Copyright Act protects tradition-based creations like woodcarvings, songs and sculptures.
In 1999 the Snuneymuxw First Nation used the
Trademarks Act to protect 10 religious petroglyphs (ancient rock paintings) from unauthorized reproduction and to stop the sale of goods
bearing these images.
Other countries have explicitly recognized
traditional knowledge and customary legal systems. Greenland retains its Inuit legal tradition
within its Home Rule Government. Over the past
150 years written Inuit literature has documented
cultural heritage. Cultural heritage is treated as
dynamic and not restricted to traditional aspects alone. Both traditional and modern cultural
expressions are respected and enjoy equal protection under law.
A more celebrated case involves the San
Bushmen of southern Africa. An anthropologist
noticed in 1937 that the San ate the Hoodia cactus to stave off hunger and thirst. Based on this

knowledge the South African Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) in 1995
patented the Hoodia cactus’s appetite-suppressing
element (P57). By 1998 revenues from the licensing fee for developing and marketing P57 as
a slimming drug had risen to $32 million (Commission on Intellectual Property Rights 2002).
When the San alleged biopiracy and threatened
legal action in 2002, the CSIR agreed to share
future royalties with the San.
Recognition of traditional culture can occur
at the regional level as well. Article 136(g) of Decision 486 of the Commission of the Andean
Community states that signs may not be registered as marks if they consist of the names of indigenous, Afro-American or local communities.
The Colombian government used Article 136(g)
to reject an application for registration of the term
“Tairona”, citing it as an invaluable heritage of
the country—the Taironas inhabited Colombian territory in the pre-Hispanic period.

Source: Commission on Intellectual Property Rights 2002; WIPO 2003c.

GLOBALIZATION AND CULTURAL CHOICE

95

Globalization can bring
recognition to indigenous
people who have
developed their resources
over the centuries

and Viet Nam. Copyrights and trademarks are
used for traditional art in Australia and Canada.
In many cases these measures have resulted in
monetary benefits for the community as well.
Discussions at WIPO are focusing on how
to complement intellectual property provisions
with unique national approaches. One
proposal—the compensatory liability approach—
envisages rights for both the patent owner and
the owner of traditional knowledge. While the
patent owner would have to seek a compulsory
licence to use the traditional knowledge resource,
the owner would also have the right to commercialize the patented invention after paying royalties to the patent owner. This mechanism avoids
restricting scientific progress and makes benefit
sharing economically significant.
By promoting flows of investments and
knowledge, globalization can bring recognition
to indigenous people who have developed their
resources over the centuries. But national and
international rules on global trade and investment must also account for the cultural
sensitivities and customary property rights of indigenous people. Respecting cultural identity
and promoting socio-economic equity through
participation and benefit sharing are possible as
long as decisions are made democratically—by

BOX 5.5

The debate on cultural goods and the
Multilateral Agreement on Investments fiasco
After the Uruguay Round of trade negotiations ended in 1994, some countries wanted
to set up a mechanism to liberalize, regulate
and enforce global investment flows. This
set the stage in 1998 for the Multilateral
Agreement on Investments (MAI). The objective was to create a single multilateral
regulatory framework to replace some 1,600
bilateral investment treaties. Among other
provisions the MAI aimed at introducing the
“national treatment” principle of nondiscrimination to investment rules and foreign investors. Country of origin would
have ceased to be a factor when applying
rules on investment and trade in services in
order to stop discrimination against foreign investment and facilitate its flows.
As the MAI was being negotiated
within the OECD, though, a number of
Source: UNESCO 2000b, 2000c; Public Citizen 2004.

96

countries inserted exceptions and reservations that weakened the initiative. Concerned about the effect that MAI could
have on cultural industries and fearing loss
of leeway to subsidize or protect national industries, France introduced clauses for cultural industries. Motivated by a number of
objections to the negotiations, including
the treatment of cultural goods like any
other merchandise, non-governmental
groups in Australia, Canada, India, New
Zealand, the United Kingdom and the
United States joined the French government’s campaign against the agreement.
The initiative collapsed, demonstrating how
contentious these issues are and complicating future talks on trade in services and
investment that affect countries’ cultural
diversity.

states, by companies, by international institutions
and by indigenous people.
FLOWS OF CULTURAL GOODS—WIDENING
CHOICES THROUGH CREATIVITY AND DIVERSITY

During the 1994 countdown to the Uruguay
Round of multilateral trade negotiations, a group
of French movie producers, actors and directors
was able to insert a “cultural exception” clause
in trade rules, excluding cinema and other audiovisual goods from their provisions. The clause
acknowledges the special nature of cultural
goods as traded commodities. The Uruguay
Round text provided a precedent for other trade
agreements to allow countries to exempt cultural
goods from trade agreements and adopt policies
to protect such industries at home. Some exceptions for trade in cultural goods were written into the North American Free Trade
Agreement (NAFTA) in 1994. In the acrimonious debates over the Multilateral Agreement
on Investments in the OECD in 1998 the cultural exception was one of the most bitterly
contested issues, propelling the collapse of negotiations (box 5.5).
At the preparatory meetings in Cancun for
the Doha Round in 2003 negotiations reportedly
foundered over the Singapore Issues—trade facilitation, transparency in government procurement, trade and investment, and trade and
competition.7 The United States had asked for
a freeze on the extension of the cultural exception, to avoid bringing Internet-related audiovisual activities into the negotiations. The Free
Trade Area of the Americas ministerial meeting
in Miami in November 2003 faced similar challenges for cultural goods, and no clear agreement
was reached.
So, whether to treat cultural goods like any
other commercial good or to make them an exception has become a hotly contested issue in
international trade negotiations. Positions remain
polarized. On one side are those who consider
cultural products as commercial as apples or cars
and therefore subject to all the rules of international trade. On the other side are those who
view cultural products as assets conveying values, ideas and meaning and therefore deserving
of special treatment.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

WHY

HAS PUBLIC SUPPORT RALLIED BEHIND

THE CULTURAL EXCEPTION ?

The cultural exception has mobilized public
support that politicians find difficult to ignore.
The cultural exception touches people’s concerns
that their national cultures might be swept away
by the economic forces of the global market,
threatening their cultural identity. The most
extreme advocates of the cultural exception
fear that foreign films and television programmes
will spread foreign culture and eventually obliterate local cultures and traditional values.
No doubt nationalism, traditionalism and
economic advantage motivate many who advocate banning foreign products. But are the fears
of those who predict a narrowing of cultural
choices justified? In fact, free flows of foreign
products widen cultural choices and do not
necessarily weaken commitment to the national
culture. Teenagers the world over listen to rap,
but that has not meant the death of classical
music or local folk music traditions. Attempts
to close off foreign influences have had limited
impact. Not until 1998 did the Republic of
Korea gradually start to lift a half-century-old
ban on Japanese music and film. Yet it is very
likely that Koreans had access to Japanese pop
culture, particularly animation and manga
(comic books), well before the ban was eased.
Restricting foreign influence does not promote
cultural freedom. But that does not mean that
cultural goods are not different in some ways
from other commercial goods.
Why are cultural goods different? Cultural goods convey ideas, symbols and lifestyles
and are an intrinsic part of the identity of the
community that produces them. There is little
disagreement that cultural products need some
public support to flourish. Subsidies for museums, ballet, libraries and other cultural products
and services are widespread and accepted in
all free market economies.
The disagreement is over whether films and
audiovisual products are cultural goods or
merely entertainment. While it can be debated
whether cinema and television programmes
have intrinsic artistic value, it is clear that they
are cultural goods in that they are symbols of
ways of life. Films and audiovisual products are

GLOBALIZATION AND CULTURAL CHOICE

powerful conveyors of lifestyles and carry social
messages (see feature 5.1). They can have a
powerful cultural impact. Indeed, they are contested precisely because of their impact on
choices about identity.8
Why do cultural goods need public support? The reasons behind the arguments for
public intervention have to do with the way
cultural goods are consumed and produced.
Both give advantage to large economies and
large industries with access to large financial resources and lead to asymmetric flows of films
and television programmes (figure 5.1).9
• Cultural goods are experience goods. Cultural products are consumed through experience: because of the subjective nature of
these goods, consumers will not know
whether they like the good until after they
have consumed it. So prices will not reflect
the quality of the product or the satisfaction
it is likely to give to the consumer. Marketing campaigns, advertising and commercial
reviews—amplified by word of mouth—
are consumers’ principal sources of information, giving a massive advantage to
producers with greater command over resources for marketing and distribution.
Many small local producers will struggle to
access the market, particularly producers
operating from developing countries.
Figure

5.1

Whether to treat cultural
goods like any other
commercial good
has become a hotly
contested issue

Top-grossing ﬁlms of all time at the international (non-US) box ofﬁce
were US films, April 2004

Rank US Films

Country
Year of origin

Total gross revenue (millions of US$)

1 Titanic

1997

US

1,235

2 Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King

2003

US

696

3 Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone

2001

US

651

4 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets

2002

US

604

5 Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers

2002

US

581

6 Jurassic Park

1993

US

563

7 Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring 2001

US

547

8 Finding Nemo

2003

US

513

9 Independence Day

1996

US

505

1999

US

491

10 Star Wars: Episode I: The Phantom Menace
Non-US Films
44 Sen to Chihiro no kamikakushi

2001

Japan

254

69 The Full Monty

1997

UK

211

86 Four Weddings and a Funeral

1994

UK

191

96 Bridget Jones’ Diary

2001

UK

183

Source: The Internet Movie Database 2004.

97

Cultural products and
creative activities, if left
to the market, could
wither and diversity
could decline

• Large producers can benefit from economies of scale. Smaller and less well financed
producers are penalized in these markets because they cannot enjoy the economies of
scale that characterize many cultural industries, especially films and other audiovisual products.10 The cost of making a
movie is the same whether it is shown one
time or a million times. The more times it
is shown, the higher the returns. When the
film reaches a big market—thanks to large
domestic demand, widespread understanding of the language spoken in the film
and strong advertising campaigns—it is
much likelier to become an international
success. The same is true for other cultural
goods. Countries and corporations with
greater financial leverage can benefit from
these economies of scale by capturing large
markets and enjoying their exclusive advantages in markets with few other large
producers (table 5.2).
POLICY

OPTIONS AND CHALLENGES —

PROTECTION OR PROMOTION ?

For these reasons, cultural products and creative
activities, if left to the market, could wither and
diversity could decline. What is the solution?
Cultural protectionism and quotas? Or production subsidies?

Protection. As argued in past Human Development Reports, raising barriers to reduce
flows of imports can be problematic, a conclusion that applies to trade in cultural goods as well.
Trade barriers to reduce or block imports defeat the expansion of diversity and choice. Yet
many countries have set production and broadcasting quotas for locally produced programmes
on radio, television and films to guarantee a
minimum market share. Hungary has a quota of
15% for national programmes on public channels.11 And the Republic of Korea’s screen quota
system, based on minimum days of domestic projections each year, probably contributed to the
increase in domestic market share and exports.
But aggressive quota-based policies have
not always resulted in greater variety and choice.
Some critics point out that high quotas make
local producers depend more on quotas and
less on holding production costs down. Some
also argue that protection can reduce the quality of goods.12
Promotion. Some countries have successfully
maintained healthy cultural industries while also
keeping trade links open. Argentina and Brazil
offer financial incentives to help domestic industries, including tax breaks. In Hungary 6%
of television receipts go to the production of
Hungarian films. France spends some $400 million a year to support its film industry, one of the
few thriving in Europe, producing more than 180

TABLE 5.2

Policy choices for the promotion of the domestic film and audiovisual industry—market and industry size matter
Advantages

Disadvantages

Policy solutions

Large producing countries
(more than 200 productions)

Large home markets, expanding
broadcasting audiences allow higher
returns

Lowers market competition and the
production of cultural and artistic films

Specialized taxation incentives to
encourage independent film-makers
and specialized distributors to make
more films

Medium-size producing countries
(from 20 to 199 productions)

State and legal financial support
guarantee the existence of a national
infrastructure and markets, allowing
for a public sector role and higher
quality films

National legal protectionism could
impede international free film trade

New international legal frameworks
to allow better and more balanced
exchanges, expanding national
production capacities

Small producing countries
(fewer than 20 productions)

Creativity does not suffer from high
technical and organizational
competition or financial constraints;
the very limited financing does not
seek immediate returns

Small domestic markets reflect a
structural lack of investment in the film
industry, limiting the number of
national productions; unfair
asymmetric international trade
practices also diminish domestic
production

As with communications and computer
technologies, digital technologies can
create new and less expensive
production opportunities, thus
overcoming distribution and
production bottlenecks

Source: Human Development Report Office based on UNESCO 200a.

98

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

films annually (box 5.6 and feature 5.1).13, 14 The
French-German worldwide success, Le Fabuleux
Destin d’Amélie Poulain, shows the possibilities for cross-border co-productions.15
Studios and equipment can also be supported. Since 1996 the Egypt Film Society has
built film studios with financing from a privatepublic partnership. Other developing economies
are trying to do the same. As with all subsidies,
there are challenges to make them work. Who
should decide on the criteria for making grants?
How should such decisions be made? The measures depend largely on the size of the domestic market (see table 5.2).
The 2001 Declaration on Cultural Diversity
of the United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) set the
stage for a number of international initiatives to
encourage action in setting standards for cultural
diversity, including the Round Table on Cultural
Diversity and Biodiversity for Sustainable Development, the Summit on the Francophonie,
the annual Meeting of the International Network
on Cultural Policy and the UN resolution proclaiming 21 May as “World Day for Cultural Diversity for Dialogue and Development”.
Preparatory work has begun for a legally binding convention to secure the diversity of cultural
expression.
The emergence or consolidation of cultural
industries should also be supported. Cooperation can support development of the necessary
infrastructure and skills to create domestic
markets and help local cultural products reach
global markets. Small business incubators can
encourage small and medium-size companies in
music, fashion and design. International funds
could be mobilized to finance the translation of
books and the subtitling or dubbing of local
films in international languages. Skills in these
fields could be formalized in business schools
and through exchanges on the economics of cultural industries.
Cultural tourism and partnerships with the
World Tourism Organization can disseminate
advice to host communities. And partnerships
with parliaments, ministries of culture and national statistical offices can gather best practices on cultural exchanges, data gathering and
policy-making.

GLOBALIZATION AND CULTURAL CHOICE

BOX 5.6

France’s successful support of domestic cultural industries
Under the “cultural exception” (l’exception culturelle) introduced during the
Uruguay Round of trade negotiations and
resolutely defended by the French government in the mid-1990s, the state promotes
and pays for the production of Gallic culture—a successful example of public support for cultural industries.
The government subsidizes the production of televised versions of French fiction,
a popular staple of public television. France
imposes a 40% minimum quota of French language radio transmissions. (Canada has a
similar system.) These measures have created opportunities for artists who might otherwise not have been able to crack the

domestic market and have made France the
largest film producer in Europe, effectively
countering competition from Hollywood.
The French government robustly defends the cultural exception—but for how
much longer will it be able to do so? The
new menace comes not from the usual
suspects—Hollywood or the World Trade
Organization—but from Brussels. The European Commission is considering limiting
the amount of support that countries are allowed to provide to their domestic production. If the new rules are passed, a strong
wave of opposition is likely to come from
groups that fear a loss of national identity
through excess foreign films.

Source: Financial Times 2004.

FLOWS OF PEOPLE—MULTIPLE IDENTITIES
FOR GLOBAL CITIZENS

Almost half the people in Toronto and Los Angeles are foreign born, and more than a quarter
are in Abidjan, London and Singapore (table
5.3). Driven by globalization, the number of migrants soared in the last decade, especially to the
high-income countries of Western Europe, North
America and Australia (figure 5.2). And with the
growing availability of the Internet and the low
cost of air travel, more immigrants are maintaining closer ties with their countries of origin (see
feature 5.1). Globalization is not only bringing cultural groups together. It is altering the rules of engagement. Democratization and a growing respect
for human rights are bringing increasing political freedom and a sense of entitlement to fair
treatment and are legitimizing protest.
Immigration gives rise to an array of concerns
on both sides. Receiving countries struggle with
issues of cultural freedom. Should Muslim girls
be allowed to wear headscarves to state schools
in France (box 5.7)? Similar debates rage over
whether education should be provided in Spanish in US schools or whether Sikh motorcyclists
should be permitted to wear a turban instead of
a standard helmet in Canada. Immigrants protest
a lack of recognition for their cultural identities
as well as discrimination in jobs, housing and education. In many countries these concerns are met
by the counter-protests of local populations,

TABLE 5.3

Top 10 cities by share of
foreign born population,
2000/01
Percent
Miami
Toronto
Los Angeles
Vancouver
New York City
Singapore
Sydney
Abidjan
London
Paris

59
44
41
37
36
33
31
30
28
23

Source: UN HABITAT 2004; U.S. Census
Bureau 2004b; World Cities Project 2002;
Australian Bureau of Statistics 2001; Statistics
Canada 2004.

99

Figure

5.2

Unprecedented growth in international migration to Europe, North
America, Australia and New Zealand, but refugees remain a small
proportion, 1990–2000

1990 2000

But this choice between acknowledging diversity and closing the country to immigration
may be a false one if national cultures are not
really threatened by diversity.

Refugees

DOES

Millions

Number of migrants
175

180
160

154

140
120
62
60

57

42

41

44

40
28
20
16 16
20

16

0

5 6
1

World

2

1

Figure

More and more
governments (rich
and poor) want to
control immigration,
1976–2001

Percent

Governments viewing
immigration as “too high”
50
40

More developed regions

30
20
10

Less developed regions

0

Governments adopting
policies to reduce immigration
50
40

More developed regions

30
20
10

Less developed regions

0

1976
Source: UN 2002a.

100

1986

2001

7 6

10

9

1

North
America

Europe

Source: UN 2002a.

5.3

CULTURAL DIVERSITY THREATEN

NATIONAL CULTURES ?

Australia /
New Zealand

Asia

6

4

Africa

1

Latin America
and Caribbean

who fear that their national identities and values
are also being challenged. “They don’t adopt
our way of life and values”, say those opposed
to immigration. “Respect our way of life and
our cultures and our human rights”, retort immigrant communities and their allies.
One response would be to acknowledge diversity and promote the inclusion of immigrants,
addressing both the social, economic and political exclusions they suffer and living mode exclusion, giving recognition to their identities. An
alternative, advocated by anti-immigrant groups,
would be to close countries to flows of people—
reversing the trend of increasing diversity (figure
5.3). The political agenda of France’s National
Front Party, for example, proposes to turn back
the flow of immigration, revoking family reunification programmes, expelling undocumented
aliens, developing programmes to return immigrants to their countries of origin and giving citizens preference in employment, social assistance
and other areas.16 Italy’s Northern League and
National Alliance parties (both members of the
ruling coalition) are introducing legislation to limit
immigration to people who have an employment contract in Italy and to provide aid to
countries to stop illegal immigration.17

Those fearing that immigrants threaten national
values make three arguments: that immigrants do
not “assimilate” but reject the core values of the
country; that immigrant and local cultures clash,
inevitably leading to social conflict and fragmentation; and that immigrant cultures are inferior and if allowed a foothold would undermine
democracy and retard progress, a drain on economic and social development. Their solution is
to manage diversity by reducing immigrant flows
and acculturating immigrant communities.
Single or multiple identities. Underlying
fears of losing national culture is an implicit belief that identities are singular. But people do not
have single, fixed identities. They have multiple
and often changing identities and loyalties. In the
words of Long Litt-Woon, chairperson of the
Drafting Group of the Council of Europe’s Conference on Diversity and Cohesion: “I am often
asked how long I have lived [in Norway]; ‘20
years’, I say. The next remark often is ‘Oh, you
are almost Norwegian!’ The assumption here is
that I have become less Malaysian because it is
common to think about identity as a zero sum
game; if you have more of one identity, you have
less of another. Identity is somehow imagined to
be like a square box with a fixed size.”18
Some groups of immigrants may want to retain their cultural identities. But that does not
mean that they do not develop loyalties to their
new country. People of Turkish ancestry in
Germany may speak Turkish at home well into
the second generation, but they also speak German. Mexicans in the United States may cheer
for the Mexican football team but serve in the
US Army.
Suspicions about the loyalties of immigrants
have been common. But they are misplaced.
Suspecting divided loyalties, the US and Canadian governments interned their citizens of
Japanese descent during World War II. Yet
soldiers of Japanese descent serving in the US

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

BOX 5.7

The headscarf dilemma in France
Should Muslim girls be allowed to wear headscarves in state schools in France? Would that
contradict the principles of secularism (laïcité)
and respect for freedom of religion? Does this
freedom require public spaces to be kept free of
religious influence? Or would that constitute
discrimination against the Muslim immigrant
community? Or does the headscarf reflect subjugation of women by men? Few controversies
have aroused as much passion—on both sides—
and raised more penetrating challenges to accommodating cultural diversity in recent years.
The controversy dates to 1989, when a secondary school expelled three young women who
wore headscarves in class on the grounds that this
violated French principles of secularism. This
triggered massive public debate. The Council of
State declared that the wearing of religious tokens is not in itself incompatible with secularism as long as it did not have an “ostentatious
or militant” character. The Ministry of Education appointed a special mediator to deal with
future such incidents.
The controversy quieted down until December 2002, when a girl in a predominantly immigrant neighbourhood in Lyon appeared in
school wearing a headscarf. The headscarf had
been reduced nearly to a headband, covering neither her forehead nor her ears. The principal

called in her parents and demanded that the
girl stop wearing a headscarf to school. The parents protested that they had already accommodated French norms by reducing the headscarf
to a headband. The mediator was called in but
was unable to find an acceptable solution. Some
teachers threatened to go on strike if the student
were allowed to continue to wear the headscarf
in school.
The affair quickly turned into a politicized
debate. Members of the National Assembly on
both the left and the right proposed a law explicitly prohibiting the wearing of headscarves in
schools and other public spaces. Leftist intellectuals quickly took positions for and against: either in defence of freedom of expression and
against discrimination against Muslims, or in
Are you in favour of, or opposed to,
a law banning signs or dress that
conspicuously display religious
affiliation? (21 January 2004)
Group
All French
Left
Right
Muslims
Muslim women

In favour (%)

Opposed (%)

69
66
75
42
49

29
33
24
53
43

defence of secularism and values of gender
equality, since it was thought that many girls
were being intimidated into wearing the headscarf. In 2003 the Ministry of Education and the
National Assembly established a committee of enquiry. In July an Independent Commission on the
Application of Secularism in the Republic proposed a ban on the wearing of any obvious religious symbols in schools, including the headscarf.
Ultimately, the legislation was passed, but
opinions were divided. Positions did not fall as
might be expected along typical divides:
left–right, non-Muslim–Muslim, or women–men.
Opinion polls taken just prior to the vote showed
Muslim women equally divided for and against
the new law (see table).
The case highlights the dilemmas that countries face in trying to accommodate the religious
and other cultural differences of immigrant communities. As in this case there are difficult tradeoffs and complex arguments. Those who defend
the ban argue that it is a defence of freedom—
freedom of religion and freedom of women from
subordination. But so do those who argue against
the ban—freedom against discrimination and
unequal opportunities. Such trade-offs of principles are particularly difficult in public education, which is intended to impart the values of
the state.

Source: Zolberg 2003; Gutmann 1995; The Economist 2004b.

and Canadian armies exhibited high levels of valour and loyalty, becoming some of the most
decorated heroes. In 1960 there were fears in the
United States that a Roman Catholic President
might have loyalties to the Pope beyond and
above his loyalties to the United States, fears that
President John F. Kennedy had to actively combat as a candidate in 1960.
Concerns about national identity are sometimes also expressed through denunciations of immigrant cultures as “inferior”, with claims that
allowing immigrants to flourish would retard the
country’s progress and development. But this
Report has demonstrated how little foundation
there is for the arguments of cultural determinism. To be sure, many immigrant groups—though
by no means all groups or in all countries—do
have high rates of unemployment and lower than
average educational achievement. But the reasons have to do with the multiple disadvantages
they suffer rather than any culturally determined

GLOBALIZATION AND CULTURAL CHOICE

group characteristics—disadvantages that can
be remedied with appropriate policies of inclusion, as chapter 3 proposes.
For most societies accommodating multiple
identities does not happen overnight. It means
coming to see as familiar differences that were
once considered “alien”. Social scientists call
this a shifting and blurring of the boundaries that
separate “us” and “not us”. The confrontations
in France over Muslim girls wearing headscarves
to school or in the United States over instruction
in Spanish in primary school are about people
fighting to maintain boundaries as they have
been drawn. Islam and Spanish are symbols of
the “not us”. Admitting them as part of “us” suggests giving in to the dangers seen looming ahead:
communal conflict and loss of cultural identity.
In accommodating multiple identities,
societies debate two questions: How different
can we afford to be? How alike must we be?
Accepting multiple identities is a major social

101

Closing doors to
immigration is neither
practical nor in the
interest of national
development

102

transformation. But history shows that it does
happen. Almost all European countries have undergone such a transformation. Today, being
different is no longer the difference between
being an Alsatien and being a Breton but between being a Sri Lankan and being a Scot,
creating a broader category of “us”.
Immigration supports economic growth
and development. Closing doors to immigration is neither practical nor in the interest of national development. Far from being a drain on
development, immigrants are a source of skills,
labour, ideas and know-how. Economists have
long argued that the gains from liberalizing migration dwarf those from removing barriers to
world trade. From Indian technology entrepreneurs in Silicon Valley in the United States
to West African nurses throughout Europe to
Chinese investors in Australia to Filipino
domestic workers in Saudi Arabia, immigrants’
contributions to innovation, enterprise and skill
are daily reminders of their value to society.
In today’s knowledge economy countries
compete by creating and attracting top talent.
In 1990, for example, foreign-born students
earned 62% of engineering doctorates in the
United States, and more than 70% of foreignborn students who get doctorates in the United
States stay in the United States.19, 20 Often among
the more entrepreneurial in society, immigrants
invest in small businesses and rejuvenate urban
neighbourhoods—in Europe they are creating
commercial zones in abandoned areas to generate thousands of jobs.21
Today, countries of Western Europe and
Japan, facing the prospect of aging and
shrinking populations, are in dire need of fresh
inflows of people. Western Europe’s working
age population is forecast to fall from 225 million in 1995 to 223 million by 2025.22 According to UN Population Division estimates, Europe
will have to double its intake of immigrants just
to maintain its population size by 2050.23
Barriers to entry have not been removed
for people as they have been for goods and capital. Yet migration has climbed rapidly in the
1990s, including undocumented migration that
has proliferated in the 1990s, reaching almost
30 million people worldwide (see feature 5.1).
Efforts to reverse the flows of people fight

against the tide of globalization.24 Significantly
reducing immigration would require measures
that are difficult to implement in democracies.
POLICY OPTIONS AND CHALLENGES—
CULTURAL RECOGNITION AND SOCIO-ECONOMIC
AND POLITICAL INCLUSION

Countries with historically large numbers of
immigrants have followed two approaches to integration, differentialism and assimilation. Differentialism means maintaining clear boundaries
between groups and respecting them as separate
communities. Differentialist policies have typically been used when the state organizes immigration to fill temporary labour needs and does
not expect migrants to become full members of
the local community. Examples are guest workers in Germany in the 1960s and 1970s and domestic servants in Saudi Arabia today.
The other approach, assimilation, seeks to
make immigrants become “more like us”. The
state and other institutions encourage immigrants to learn the predominant national language and adopt the social and cultural practices
of the receiving community. By the time immigrants’ children have passed through the primary
institutions of the new society, especially public schools, they will be almost indistinguishable from the rest of the local community. The
image of the US “melting pot” best represents
this approach.
These two approaches, effective in earlier
decades, are inadequate in diverse societies that
need to build respect for differences and a
commitment to unity. Culturally diverse societies are not predestined to disintegrate or to lose
their national cultures and identities. But accommodating diversity requires efforts to build
cohesion in managing immigration and the integration of migrants into society. Just as there
are many ways in multi-ethnic states for ethnic
minorities to feel pride in their own community
as well as strong loyalty to the state, so too can
immigrants become full members of their
adopted countries and still maintain ties to their
countries of origin. The challenge is to craft policies that integrate the objectives of unity and respect for difference and diversity. Differentialism
does not build commitment to the country among

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

immigrants or provide adequate social protection.
And guest worker programmes can be a source
of exploitation and conflicts—“we wanted workers, but we got people” was the reaction of some
(box 5.8). Assimilation does not accommodate
difference or respect for diversity, nor does it explicitly address asymmetry.
Immigrants are more inclined today—and
more able—than in the past to maintain close
connections with family and community in their
place of birth. Such connections are not new, but
the influence on social, economic and political
behaviour is different, thanks to the ease of modern communication and travel. Immigrants want
to keep a foot in each world—one in their place
of birth and the other in their adopted country.
Multiculturalism has recently become a third
approach to incorporating immigrants, one that
recognizes the value of diversity and supports
multiple identities. It began in Canada in the
early 1960s, when Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau
articulated the idea in response to the challenges
of a diverse population of indigenous people,
French and English settlers and recent immigrants, with major divisions and inequalities
among them. Australia introduced such a policy in the 1990s, after concluding that it was the
only way to create cohesion amid diversity.
Multiculturalism is not only about recognizing different value systems and cultural practices

within society—it is also about building a common commitment to core, non-negotiable values, such as human rights, rule of law, gender
equality, and diversity and tolerance.25 Australia
describes this as “United in Diversity”. Such a
policy emphasizes not only the freedom of individuals to express and share their cultural values but also their obligations to abide by mutual
civic obligations.
Although there is a historical sequence to
these models of immigrant integration, at any
one time countries use all three approaches.
While not adopting multiculturalism as an explicit state policy, many countries are introducing elements of this approach as they struggle
to manage growing diversity. The challenge involves addressing cultural exclusions along three
dimensions, with a common theme of building
unity and respecting difference:
• Addressing cultural exclusion by recognizing
cultural identities (living mode exclusion).
• Addressing socio-economic exclusion (participation exclusion).
• Addressing exclusion from civic participation and citizenship rights (participation
exclusion).
Addressing cultural exclusion by recognizing cultural identities. Immigrant communities might not suffer explicit discrimination
and suppression of their way of life, but most

Multiculturalism is about
building a common
commitment to core,
non-negotiable values

BOX 5.8

Temporary contracts—welcoming workers but not people does not work
As states struggle to control the flow of workers
in the globalized labor market, many are experimenting with temporary migration programmes.
Immigrants recruited under such programmes are
not offered citizenship; they are expected to
work for a set period of time and then to go
back “home”, making little impact on national
culture and identity. Things rarely work that
way, however.
Nearly every region at some time has recruited temporary workers to meet specific
economic needs. In the 19th century hundreds
of thousands of South Indians were recruited
to the rubber plantations of Malaysia and to the
sugar cane plantations of Trinidad and Tobago. In the United States an agricultural
labour programme that started as a temporary
solution to a shortage during World War II

became a labour recruitment programme lasting several decades. A number of European
countries, including Germany and the Netherlands, experimented with “guest worker” programmes in the 1960s and early 1970s. More
recently, Middle Eastern oil-producing states
have turned to temporary labour for construction and other projects. South Africa continues to depend on temporary migrants to
mine its natural resources and, in just the last
few years, Mexico has designed a programme
for 39,000 temporary workers from Guatemala
to harvest coffee.
Such programmes have provided opportunities for many to work and earn, sending billions
home in remittances. But these programmes
have also created marginalized communities. In
the now famous phrase used to describe the

European guest worker programme, “We recruited workers, but we got people.”
Many temporary workers often decide to
stay, despite government efforts to prevent this—
and then bring their families, creating communities of the undocumented. But because they are
excluded from the mainstream, they create ghetto
communities—feeding anti-immigrant sentiments. Explicit legal restrictions and powerful
informal social obstacles, such as physically segregated housing compounds, also prevent immigrants from participating fully in society.
These situations leave immigrants without
protection from their home countries or their
host countries. Legal residents without citizenship can be abused by employers and have little recourse to the legal or social services of the
host country.

Source: Bach 2004.

GLOBALIZATION AND CULTURAL CHOICE

103

Some of the most divisive
issues of “us” and “not
us” concern traditional or
religious practices
thought to contradict
national values or
human rights

do suffer from a lack of support to practice it.
Perhaps more important, they often suffer from
the rejection of values felt to be in conflict with
core national values or from a social prejudice
that their culture is inferior (see box 5.7).
Combating social prejudice and xenophobia is critical to building social harmony and
unity in diverse societies. Greater respect and
understanding for cultures can be fostered by
providing positive and accurate images in the
media, teaching the history of other cultures in
schools and preparing museum exhibitions that
demonstrate respect for cultural diversity and
address socio-economic discrimination and inequalities (box 5.9).
Religion is the most contested of cultural
identities. Greater recognition has enormous
practical value, making it easier to obtain permits to build places of worship, establish burial grounds and hold celebrations. It also has
great symbolic value, demonstrating respect for
other cultures. The celebration of Eid at the
White House in 1996 was a strong sign of respect
for the millions of Muslims in the United States.
Controversies arise over support to religion in
secular states. As chapter 3 shows, secularism
does not necessarily mean no involvement by the
state in religion. The state can support religious

BOX 5.9

How Berlin promotes respect for cultural difference
Berlin has earned a reputation in Germany
as a pioneer in promoting the integration of
immigrants. Berlin was the first among the
federal states to establish an office to address obstacles to integration. In 1981 under
the motto “Miteinander leben” (living with
one another), the Commissioner’s Office of
the Berlin Senate for Migration and Integration established a campaign for tolerance, respect for others and understanding.
It conducts outreach activities in neighbourhoods with a high proportion of immigrants and public information campaigns
describing the basic principles of the policy.
The office also provides counselling and
legal consultations in 12 languages, helping
immigrants find jobs and tackle discrimination. Together with non-governmental organizations, the office organizes regular
training for the police on relations towards

immigrants and conducts annual surveys on
local attitudes towards immigrants.
The Commissioner’s Office builds capacity among immigrant organizations,
helps immigrants organize into self-help
groups and is a primary information source
for people seeking advice on integration.
Half of its €6.5 million annual budget goes
to funding immigrant organizations and
groups.
The Commissioner’s Office has
brought integration concerns to the attention of the media and the public. It has
opened a direct channel of communication
between immigrants and government. It
has also focused on activities for both immigrant populations and ethnic Germans,
showing that integration is a two-way
process. Many other federal states have
copied Berlin’s example.

Source: IOM 2003c; European Union 2004; Independent Commission on Migration to Germany 2001.

104

activity in ways that do not favour one religion
over another, such as support to all religious
schools. But the religions of immigrants are not
always treated the same as the religion of the majority population.
Some of the most divisive issues of “us”
and “not us” concern traditional or religious
practices that are thought to contradict national
values or human rights. Cultural recognition
does not simply mean defending tradition. It
means promoting cultural liberty and human development. And immigrant communities themselves need to challenge “traditional values”
that conflict with core national values or human
rights.
Addressing socio-economic inclusion. The
175 million people who live outside their countries of birth are a very mixed group. From highly
skilled professionals to the young men and
women who are smuggled across borders to
work in sweat shops, they include people who
have been in the country for decades and those
who arrived only yesterday. And the ranks of “immigrant communities” that are politically mobilized expand beyond the 175 million to include
the relatives and even friends of immigrants.
Not all immigrants suffer socio-economic
exclusion. For those who do, that exclusion takes
many different forms. The biggest problem is that
in many countries the poverty of immigrant
groups divides society. It gives rise to antiimmigrant movements and accusations that immigrants are unwilling or unable to be productive
members of society, that they live together in ghettos with no interest in integrating with the rest
of society. State support to address socioeconomic exclusion of immigrant groups is therefore a critical part of building social harmony.
Education and language are the first step.
Many countries have proactive programmes
for integration that offer instruction in the country’s national language. More controversial is the
use of immigrants’ mother tongues in schools
and in official communication. No single formula is appropriate for all situations. But objections to the use of mother tongues are often
more ideological than pragmatic. People learn
better, respect laws and generally participate in
the life of a community more fully if they can
understand better. Learning the language of

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

the state is critical, but there will be lags in
achieving proficiency.
Also controversial is the issue of social welfare protection for non-citizens, including undocumented residents. The fear—difficult to
prove or disprove—is that social protection encourages more inflows of people, who in turn
become dependent on the state. But the reality
is that without welfare protection, the broader
social consequences would be worse. And states
have an obligation to protect and promote
human rights—for all their residents.
Addressing exclusion from civic participation and citizenship rights. Many immigrants
are not citizens. For that reason they are excluded from the bundle of obligations and rights
that states and their citizens have to each other.
Without such rights immigrants lack access to the
jobs and services that help them become fully
contributing members of society. They also lack
protection from abuse. Naturalization is intended
to be the answer, but most states are beginning
to rethink their policies in response to rising
flows, temporary and circular movements and
transnational multiple identities.
Extending the civic rights traditionally associated with citizenship to non-citizens is a
critical step, as is the recognition of dual nationality. Many countries, including Denmark,
the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden, have
extended voting rights to non-citizens in local
elections. In other countries, like Belgium, such
rights are likely to be extended soon. Some 30
countries now acknowledge dual nationality.
But there are also contradictory trends of restrictions on access to long-term residence, naturalization and citizenship, and social services.
For example, California recently made it impossible for immigrants without legal residence
to acquire drivers’ licences, effectively excluding them from many jobs and other activities essential in everyday life.
A globally interdependent world needs a
new approach to citizenship for native residents

GLOBALIZATION AND CULTURAL CHOICE

and immigrants that incorporates the fundamental principles of human rights into a
multicultural strategy for advancing human
development—a strategy that benefits everyone.
*
*
*
States, communities, institutions and individuals all have to make choices:
• Should states seek to impose a homogenizing and unchanging national identity? Or
should they celebrate diversity, helping to
foster syncretic and evolving societies?
• Should communities protect tradition even
if it narrows choice and freedoms? Or should
they use their common knowledge and resources for exchange and mutual benefit?
• Should international institutions persist with
rules that adhere to particular cultural and
legal traditions? Or should they recognize,
respect and promote the products and resources of other cultures, strengthening the
legitimacy of institutions?
• Should individuals restrict themselves
to singular identities? Or should they recognize themselves as part of an interlinked
humanity?
Democracy and equitable growth are important in fostering cultural inclusion. But they
are not enough. Multicultural policies for cultural
inclusion—recognizing differences, supporting
diversity and mitigating asymmetries of power—
are also needed. Individuals have to shed rigid
identities if they are to become part of a diverse
society. International institutions have to respect
other cultural traditions and create enabling conditions for developing local cultural resources.
Poor countries and marginalized communities
have to be given a greater voice in negotiations
involving their cultures and rights and fair compensation for the use of their resources. Only
under these circumstances will multiple and
complementary identities evolve across national
boundaries. Only then will identity and freedom flourish in a culturally diverse world.

Extending the civic rights
traditionally associated
with citizenship to noncitizens is a critical step,
as is the recognition of
dual nationality

105

Notes

Chapter 1
1. Smith 1976.
2. Kymlicka and Norman 2000; Benhabib 2002; Kymlicka
1990; Stepan 2001; Taylor 1992.
3. Fraser and Honneth 2003.
4. Hart 1955, pp. 175–91.
5. Sen 2004c.
6. Sen 2004c.
7. Sandel 1998.
8. Sandel 1998.
9. Crowley 1987.
10. Sen 1999, 2001.
11. Appiah 1996, p. 84.
12. This section is drawn from Sen 2002.
13. As quoted in Mokyr 1983, p. 291.
14. This section is drawn from Sen 2004b.
15. Harrison and Huntington 2000, p. xiii.
16. Kymlicka and Norman 2000; Stepan 2001; Young 2000.
17. Sen 2003.
18. Aston 1972.
19. Mandela 1994, p. 21.
20. Okin 1999.
Chapter 2
1. Kymlicka 1996.
2. HDRO calculations based on CIA 2003.
3. Statistics Canada 2004.
4. Kymlicka 2004.
5. UNDP 2003e.
6. Dragoljub 2000.
7. Gurr 2000.
8. While there is no internationally agreed on definition of indigenous people, a widely accepted understanding of indigenous people may be found in UNDP 2004a.
9. UNDP 2004c.
10. Stavenhagen 2004.
11. Minority Rights Group International 2003.
12. Bell-Fiakoff 1993, pp. 110–21; Kiernan 1999; The Bangkok
Post 2000; 2001. The vast majority of this reduction in numbers was from introduced diseases. The extent of intent is unclear, and it appears to be more of a case of non-prevention.
13. Indigenous Australia 2003.
14. During 1992.
15. UN 2002a.
16. HDRO calculations based on Wanner 2002. Total refers
to 15 European countries with data: Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Iceland, Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden
and Switzerland.
17. The Guardian 2001.
18. Migration Information Source 2003.
19. UN 2002a.

NOTES

20. UN 2002a.
21. Kelso and Vasagar 2002.
22. Statistical feature 1, The state of human development,
in this volume.
23. Statistical feature 1, The state of human development,
in this volume.
24. Statistical feature 1, The state of human development,
in this volume.
25. Statistical feature 1, The state of human development,
in this volume.
26. Calculations based on the Polity IV Project 2003.
27. Kymlicka 2004.
28. Wikipedia 2004.
29. Zolberg 2004.
30. Human Rights Watch 2002.
31. Human Rights Watch 2002.
32. International Federation of Human Rights 2003.
33. Zolberg 2004.
34. UNESCO 2003b.
35. UNESCO 2003b.
36. Calculations based on UNESCO 2000c.
37. SIL International 2004b.
38. The Minorities at Risk (MAR) Project 2003.
39. Calculations based on the Minorities at Risk (MAR) Project
2003.
40. Human Rights Watch 2003.
41. Libanio 2004.
42. Kanyinga 2003.
43. Fraenkel 2003.
44. Premdas 2003.
45. Calculations based on the Minorities at Risk (MAR) Project
2003.
46. UNDP 2000c.
47. Dragoljub 2000.
48. Alvim 2002.
49. Bryld and others 2003.
50. UNDP 2003e.
51. UNDP 2000c.
52. Kymlicka 2004.
53. Kymlicka 2004.
54. Arizpe 2004.
55. Sen 2004b.
56. Huntington 1996.
57. Sen 2004b.
58. Sen 2004b.
59. See, for example, Inglehart 1997.
60. Sen 2004b
61. Inglehart and Baker 2000; Sen 2004b.
62. Barro and McLeary 2003.
63. Sen 2004b.
64. Sen 2004b.
65. See, for example, Etounga-Manguelle 2000.

107

66. Sen 2004b.
67. Indicator table 13.
68. UNDP 2003b.
69. Sen 2004b.
70. Stepan and Robertson 2003, pp. 30–44.
71. Sen 2004b.
72. Stepan and Robertson 2003. Countries with average GDP
per capita under $1,500.
73. UNDP 2003a.
74. UNDP 2003a.
75. Not counting the peoples of former European colonies.
76. Marshall and Gurr 2003.
77. Huntington 1996.
78. Stewart 2003.
79. Cohen 1974; Alexander and McGregor 2000; Ranger 1983;
Turton 1997, pp. 77–94.
80. Collier and Hoeffler 2001.
81. Justiniano 2004.
82. Stewart 2003.
83. Stewart 2002.
84. See, for example, Easterley and Levine 1997, pp. 1203–50.
85. See, for example, Easterley and Levine 1997, pp. 1203–50.
86. Snodgrass 1995.
87. The Economist 2002a.
88. Kapur and McHale 2003, pp. 48–57.
89. Kapur and McHale 2003, pp. 48–57.
90. “Charter oath” as cited in Sen 2004b.
91. Sen 2004b.
92. UNDP 2003a.
93. Florida and Gates 2002, pp. 32–35.
Chapter 3
1. Benhabib 1996.
2. Kymlicka and Norman 2000.
3. Moncrieffe 2004, pp 32–33, has an interesting discussion of
the founding ideology of the revolutionary movement in Cuba,
which argues that the racial problem was subsumed within the
general battle against social injustice in all is manifestations.
4. Sheth 2004.
5. Okin 1999.
6. Moncrieffe 2004.
7. Prashad 2001.
8. Kymlicka 1996.
9. Young 2000.
10. Requejo 2001.
11. Young 1999.
12. Snyder 2000, p. 327.
13. Martínez-Herrera 2002, pp. 1–22.
14. Alfred 1995.
15. Watts 1998.
16. ILO 2003.
17. ILO 2003.
18. Luter and Deschouwer 1999.
19. Fleiner 2003.
20. Moncrieffe 2004.
21. O’Leary 2004.
22. O’Leary 2004.
23. Boix 1999, pp. 609–24.
24. Nagel 2004.
25. O’Leary 2004.
26. Cohn 1996; Kaviraj 1992; Hansen 2001; Corbridge and
Harriss 2000; Dirks 2004.
27. Phillips 2001.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.

108

Care 1999.
Schacher 2001.
Tetley 1999.
Dirks 2004.
Kuruk 2002.
Thompson 2001.

34. Haffajee 1999.
35. Zorzi 2002.

36. This was unequivocally shown by the European Court of
Human Rights in the Belgian linguistic case (de Varennes
1996, pp. 291–300).
37. Dutcher 1982.
38. Cummings and Tamayo 1994.
39. Ndoye 2003.
40. Patrinos and Velez 1996.
41. Patrinos and Velez 1996.
42. India 2004.
43. Ndoye 2003.
44. Matiki 2003.
45. Moeketsi 1999.
46. Temu 2000.
47. Eades 2004, pp. 23 and 113–33.
48. De Varennes 1996, pp. 291–300.
49. Chua 2003.
50. Duncan, Jefferis and Molutsi 2000.
51. Moyo 2004.
52. Psacharopoulos and Patrinos 1994.
53. UNICEF 2004.
54. United Nations Association of Great Britain and Northern Ireland 2004.
55. UNICEF 2004.
56. Psacharopoulos and Patrinos 1994.
57. Miguel 1999.
58. Alesina, Baqir and Easterly 1997.
59. Luttmer 1997.
60. Yashar 2004.
61. Sheth 2004.
62. For instance, in the Surat District of Gujarat in the 1960s
about 80% of primary school teachers were members of tribal
groups. This enabled members of the tribal groups in the district to access political power in Gujarat. They have become
members of the legislative assembly and members of Parliament (which was mechanically possible through quotas) and
also ministers and chief minister of the state. This political power
was then used to acquire other linkages.
63. Sabbagh 2004.
Feature 3.1
1. Kymlicka 2004.
2. Kymlicka 2004.
3. Stepan, Linz and Yadav 2004.
4. Breytenbach 2000.
5. Keating 2002.
6. Linz and Stepan 1996.
7. Stepan 2001.
8. Bhargava 2004.
9. Stepan, Linz and Yadav 2004.
Chapter 4
1. CPS 2002; DUMC 2002; EUMC 2002; FBI 2002; SSS
2002. The number for the United States does not include hate
crimes motivated by sexual orientation or disability.
2. RAND Corporation 2004.
3. Engineer 2004. Casualties include numbers killed and injured. For 1954–94 the data are from Home Ministry records.
For 1995–2002 the data are from newspaper accounts.
4. Noting the threat posed by extremist organizations, in August 2001 Pakistan banned the Lashkar-e-Jhangvi. In January
2002 it banned the Sipah-e-Sahaba and Tehreek-i-Jafariya
(South Asia Monitor 2003).
5. Symonds 2003.
6. ADL 2003.
7. Mudde 2000.
8. Eatwell 2000.
9. Arjomand 1989, cited in De Kadt 2004, p. 23.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

10. Sands 2003. Estimates are those of Pakistan’s Minister of
Education, Zubaida Jalal.
11. Macan-Markar 2004.
12. Entzinger 2003; Meyer 2001.
13. Kaldor and Muro 2003, p. 179.
14. The Economist 2003a, p. 19.
15. Testas 2002.
16. AFP 2004.
17. Widfeldt 2001.
Chapter 5
1. Gandhi 1921.
2. World Bank 2002.
3. Tebtebba and Forest Peoples Programme 2003.
4. World Bank 2002.
5. Forero 2003; The New York Times 2003.
6. World Bank 2004.
7. European Union 2003.
8. In the United States, for example, these have become some
of the strongest export sectors, providing much needed export
revenues at a time when the country is facing a ballooning trade
deficit.
9. Assuming a $3 admission price, an estimated 1 in every 10
people around the world saw the film Titanic. Moreover, its
titanic $200 million production cost is dwarfed by its revenues: over $1.8 billion worldwide of which $1.2 billion came
from abroad (Internet Movie Database 2004). Such cost structures often create very high entry costs in domestic—let alone
international—markets that justify public intervention.
10. Extensive literature on this matter and more details on the
theory behind how the industry works can be found in Vogel
2001.
11. Cohen 2004.
12. The quality of French audiovisual programming deteriorated rapidly after the introduction of a heavy system of quotas for national content (Cohen 2004).
13. Riding 2003.
14. Cohen 2004.
15. Cross-subsidization initiatives like this are already raising
concerns by some groups, who often attack them on nationalistic grounds (Buck 2004).

NOTES

16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.

Front National 2004.
Lega Nord 2004.
Council of Europe 2000.
Bhagwati 2003, pp. 98–104.
IOM 2003c.
Niessen 2000.
Geddes 2002.
UN 2000b.
The Economist 2002a.
IOM 2003a.

Feature 5.1
1. IOM 2003b.
2. ATSIA 2003.
3. World Bank 2004.
4. CSD and ICC 2002.
5. Moody 2000.
6. WIPO 2003d.
7. UNESCO 2000a.
8. UNESCO 2000b.
9. Mishra 2003.
10. UNESCO 2000a.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.

Riding 2003.
UNESCO 2000a.
UNESCO 2000a.
Cohen 2004.
Cohen 2004.
World Bank 2003.
UN 2003a.
IOM 2003b.
UN 2002a.
UN 2002a.
IOM 2004.
Wanner 2002.
IOM 2003c.
Kapur and McHale 2003, pp. 48–57.
UN 2002b.
UN 2002b.
IOM 2003c.

109

Bibliographic note

Chapter 1 draws on Agarwal 1994; Ambedkar 2002; Appadurai
1996; Appiah 1996; Appiah and Gates 1995; Arizpe 2000; Aston
1972; Avrami, Mason, and De La Torre 2000; Basu 1992; Benhabib 1996, 2002; Blau 1993, 2001; Crowley 1987; Fraser 1995,
1997; Fraser and Honneth 2003; Goody 1996; Granovetter 1985;
Greif 1994; Gutmann 1994, 1995; Gutmann and Thompson
1996; Habermas 1975, 1996; Harrison and Huntington 2000;
Hart 1955; Huntington 1996; Kymlicka 1990; Kymlicka and Norman 2000; Lenoir 1989; Linz and Stepan 1996; Mandela 1994;
Mansbridge 1998; Mokyr 1983; Nussbaum 1995; Nussbaum and
Glover 1995; Okin 1999; Ostrom 1990, 1998; Pattanaik 1998; Platteau 2000; Putnam 1993; Putnam, Leonardi, and Nanetti 1993;
Rodgers, Gore, and Figueirdo 1995; Runciman 1966; Sandel
1998; Sen 1984, 1999, 2001, 2002, 2004a, 2003, 2004c, Forthcoming; Silver 1995; Smith 1976; Stepan 2001; Taylor 1992;
Throsby 1999; Townsend 1979; UN 2000a; UNESCO 1998,
2000c; Weber 1976; and Young 2000.
Chapter 2 draws on Afrikanska Språk 2004; Alexander and
McGregor 2000; Alvim 2002; Ansari 2002; The Arizona Republic 2003; Arizpe 2004; The Associated Press 2003; Australian
Bureau of Statistics 2004; The Bangkok Post 2000, 2001; Barro
and McCleary 2003; Bell-Fiakoff 1993; Bengwayan 2003; Bird
2003; Brindis and others 2002; Bromley 1974; CIA 2003; Cohen
1974; Collier and Hoeffler 2001; Davenport 2004; Discover France
2000; Douglas 1988; Dragoljub 2000; During 1992, 1993; Easterley and Levine 1997; Etounga-Manguelle 2000; France, Ministère
de Jeunesse, Éducation et Recherche 2004; FBI 2004; Florida and
Gates 2002; Fraenkel 2003; Fukuda-Parr 2001; Goldstone 1998;
The Guardian 2001; Gurr 1993, 2000; Human Rights Watch
2002, 2003; Huntington 1996; IOE 2003; IOM 2003c; India, Ministry of Personnel 2002; India, Office of the Registrar General
2004; Indigenous Australia 2003; Inglehart 1997; Inglehart and
Wayne 2000; International Federation of Human Rights 2003; Jacobs 2003; Justiniano 2004; Justino and Litchfield 2003; Kanyinga
2003; Kapur and McHale 2003; Kelso and Vasagar 2002; Kiernan
1999; Kymlicka 2004; Lavery 2004; Libanio 2004; Linz and Stepan
1996; Marshall 2000; Marshall and Gurr 2003; Mexico, Ministry
of Health 2004; Migration Information Source 2003; The Minorities at Risk Project 2003; Minority Rights Group International
2003; NARAL Pro Choice 2004; The New York Times 2003;
Nicaragua Network 2004; Opondo 2004; The Pew Research Center 2003; The Polity IV Project 2003; Ponzio 2004; Premdas 2003;
Ranger 1983; Rutter 1998; Schwenken 2003; Sen 2002, 2004b; SIL
International 2004b; Smith 1986, 1991; Snodgrass 1995; Stamatopoulou 2002; Statistics Canada 2004; Statistics Sweden 2004;
Stavenhagen 2004; Stepan and Robertson 2003; Stepanov 2004;
Stewart 2002, 2003; Third World Network 2003; Turton 1997; UN
2002a, 2003b, 2004; UNDP 2000a, 2000b, 2000c, 2002a, 2002b,
2003a, 2003b, 2003c, 2003e, 2004a, 2004b, 2004c; UNESCO
2000c; 2003b, 2004a; Valdés 2002; WHO 2001; Walden 2000; Wanner 2002; Wikipedia 2004; World Values Survey 2004; World
Bank 2004; and Zolberg 2004.
Chapter 3 draws on Addison and Rahman 2001; Alesina,
Baquir, and Easterly 1997; Austin and O'Neill 2000; Awakuni
and Mio 2000; Bangura 2004; Baqir and Easterly 1997; Bardhan
1997; Baron and Diermeier 2001; Barry 2001; Bauböck 2001;

110

Bauböck and Rundell 1998; Benhabib 1996; Bgoya and others 1997;
Bhargava 2004; Bird 2003; Boix 1999; Boothroyd 2004; Boulle 1984;
Bowen and Derek 1998; Breytenbach 2000; Brint and Renéo 2001;
Brock-Utne 2002; Brown and Ganguly 1997; Bryld and others 2003;
Burnley 2001; Buvollen 2002; Caballero 2003; Care 1999; Carens
2000; Chua 2003; Cohn 1996; Congleton 2000; Congleton, Kyriacou and Bacaria 1999; Conversi 2002; Corbridge and Harriss
2000; CRIP 2004; Cummings and Tamayo 1994; De Varennes
1996; Delgado-Moreira 2000; D'Ercole and Salvini 2003; Dirks
2004; Donders 2003; Doomernik 2001; Duncan and Molutsi 2000;
Dunleavy and O'Leary 1987; Dutcher 1982; Eades 2004; The
Economist 2004a; Edgerton 1996; Elazar 1998; Engineer 2003; Fafunwa 1990; Feldman 2002; Fleiner 2003; Fossas 1999; Fraser
1989; Funke 2001; Gill 2001; Giovarelli and Akmatova 2002;
Goodman 2004; Griffiths and Nerenberg 2002; Grillo 1998; Grin
2003; Halfin 2002; Hammer and Schulz 2003; Hansen 2001; Harding and Narayan 2000; Harris and Reilly 1998; Hastrup 2001;
Helwege 1995; Hoodfar and Pazira 2003; ILO 2001, 2003; Indian
and Northern Affairs Canada 2004; India, Ministry of Education
2004; Jarkko and Smith 2001; Jefferis and Molutsi 2000; Jomo 2004;
Jureidini 2001; Kanbur 2001; Kaviraj 1992; Kearns and Sarat
1997, 1999; Keating 2002; Kertzer and Arel 2002; Klaus 2003; Knop
2002; Knowles and Amit-Talai 1996; Kuruk 2002; Kymlicka 1990,
1996, 1998, 2001, 2004; Kymlicka and Norman 2000; Leibfried and
Rieger 2003; Lewis 1998, 2003; Lewis and Miller 2003; Licha
2002; Linz and Stepan 1978; Linz and Yadav 2004; Ljiphart 1984;
Lott 1998; Loury 2001; Lukes and Joppke 1999; Luter and Deschouwer 1999; Luttmer 1997; Macedo 2000; Malhotra 2002;
Martínez-Herrera 2002; Matiki 2003; Mazrui 1996; McRae 1974;
Medrano 2002; Mehrotra and Delamonica Forthcoming; Miguel
1999; Modood and Werbner 1997; Mody 2003; Moeketsi 1999;
Moghadam 2004; Moncrieffe 2004; Moya 2002; Moyo 2004; Myerson 1991; Nagel 2004; National Commission on Indigenous
Peoples 2004a, 2004b; Ndoye 2003; Neville 2001; Ocampo 2001;
Office of Personnel Management 2003; Okin 1999; O'Leary 2004,
Forthcoming; Parekh 2000; Patrinos and Velez 1996; Patterson and
Susser 2001; Phillips 2001; Prah 2000, 2004; Prashad 2001; Preis
2004; Psacharopoulos and Patrinos 1994; Reiss 2002; Renshon 2001;
Requejo 2001; Richey 2003; Rotimi 2001; Rubin 2004; Rudolph
2001; Russell 2002; Sabbagh 2004; Sarat and Simon 2003; Schacher
2001; Schultz and Mwabo 1998; Schulze 1999; Sepúlveda 2003;
Sheth 2004; SIL International 2004a; South Africa, Ministry of
Labour 2004; Snyder 2000; Stepan 2001; Subirats 2003; Taiaiake
1995; Tauli-Corpus 2004; Temu 2000; Tetley 1999; Thompson 2001;
Tran 2000; UN 1994; UNDP 2003d; UNICEF 2001, 2004; United
Nations Association of Great Britain and Northern Ireland 2004;
U.S. Census Bureau 2004b; U.S. Department of Labor 2004; Van
der Westhuizen 2002; Vuchelen 2003; Watts 1998, 1999, 2002; Willett 1998; World Bank 2003; Wright 2001; Yashar 2004; Young
1999, 2000; and Zorzi 2002.
Chapter 4 draws on Abed-Kotob 1995; Abuza 2002; ADL
2003; AFP 2004; Arjomand 1989; Barraclough 1998; Berman
2003; Bhavnani and Backer 2000; Brumberg 2002; Byman and others 2001; Campagna 1996; Caplan 1987; Chicuecue 1997; CNN
2003; Conner 1986; Cornell and Spector 2002; CPS 2002; De
Kadt 2004; DUMC 2002; Eatwell 2000; The Economist 2000,

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

2003a, 2003b; Electionworld.org 2004; Engineer 2004; Entelis
2002; Entzinger 2003; Esman 1986; EUMC 2002; Fahmy 1998; FBI
1999, 2002; Gerges 2000; Godmer and Kestel 2001; Grove and
Carter 1999; Gurr 1993; Hafez 2000; Haubrich 2003; HinduUnity.org 2004; Hoffman 1998-99; Honwana 1999; Iganski 2002;
Ignazi 2003; IRR 2003; Jackman and Volpert 1996; Jeness 2002;
Kaldor and Muro 2003; Kogacioglu 2003; Koh 2002; Leone and
Angrig 2003; Levin 2001; Levin and McDevitt 1999; Mabry 1998;
Macan-Markar 2004; Mamdani 2001; Martínez-Herrera 2002;
Marty and Appleby 1991, 1993, 1995; Mayer 2001; Meyer 2001;
Middle East Institute 2003; The Minorities at Risk Project 2003;
Moreau Yousafazai, and Hussain 2003; Mudde 2000; Pehdazur
2001; Prah 2004; RAND Corporation 2004; Roberts 2002; Rotar
2002; Rubin 2004; Sands 2003; SATP 2004; Scott 2003; Sen 2004a;
Shain 1994-95; Shain and Barth 2003; Sheffer 1986, 1993; Sivan
2003; South Asia Monitor 2003; SSS 2002; Stern 2000, 2003; Susning.nu 2004; Swedish Election Authority 2002; Symonds 2003;
Testas 2002; Tremlett 2002; UNESCO 2001; U.S. Department of
Justice 2001; Van Holsteyn 2003; Wahlbeck 2002; Wanandi 2002;
Wedgwood 2002; Widfeldt 2001, 2004; Moreau, Yousafzai and
Hussain 2003; Zelkina 1999; and Zhao 1998.
Chapter 5 draws on Aleinikoff and Klusmeyer 2000; ATSIA
2003; Australian Bureau of Statistics 2001; Bach 2004; Bhagwati
2003; Brucker and others 2001; Brumann 1999; Buck 2004; CBD
2002; Clifford 1988; Cohen 2004; Commission on Intellectual

BIBLIOGRAPHIC NOTE

Property Rights 2002; Coombe 1998; Council of Europe 2000;
Coussey 2000; CSD and ICC 2002; De Ferranti and others 2003;
Department of Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous
Affairs 2003; Doomernik 2001; Droege and Soete 2001; The Economist 2002a, 2002b, 2004b; European Union 2003; European
Union 2004; Fermin 2001; Financial Times 2004; Forero 2003;
Front National 2004; Garson and Loizillon 2003; Geddes 2002;
Ghosh 2003; Graeme 2003; Independent Commission on Migration to Germany 2001; Inglis 2004; International Council on Metals and the Environment 1999; The Internet Movie Database 2004;
IOM 2003a, 2003b, 2003c, 2004; Kongolo 2001; Koopmans 2002;
Kymlicka 2003; Lega Nord 2004; McPhail 2000; Mgbeoji 2001;
Mishra 2003; Moody 2000; Niessen Jan 2000; Norchi 2000; OECD
2003; Olwig and Hastrup 1997; Ostergard and Altman 2001;
Papademetriou 2003; Preis 2004; Public Citizen 2004; Riding
2003; Rodwin 2002; Rosaldo 1989; Salomon and Sengupta 2003;
Sen 2004a; Stalker 2002; Statistics Canada 2004; Stavenhagen
2004; Tebtebba and Forest Peoples Programme 2003; Tebtebba
and International Forum on Globalization 2003; UIS 2001; UN
2000b, 2002a, 2002b, 2003a; UNCTAD 1999; UNDP 1999; UNESCO 2000a, 2000b, 2000c, 2002, 2003a, 2003c, 2004b; UN
HABITAT forthcoming; U.S. Census Bureau 2004a; WIPO 2003b,
2003c, 2003d, 2004; World Bank 2002, 2004; World Commission
on Culture and Development 1995; Yashar 2004; and Zolberg 2001,
2004.

111

Bibliography

Background papers
Conceptual studies
Arizpe, Lourdes. 2004. “Notes on Cultural Policies and Best Practices in Cultural Diversity.”
Bach, Robert. 2004. “Migration.”
Cohen, Elie. 2004. “Économie de L’Exception Culturelle.”
De Kadt, Emanuel. 2004. “Curbing Coercive Identities.”
Deere, Carolyn. 2003. “Building Inclusive Societies: Managing
Diversity.”
Dirks, Nicholas. 2004. “Colonial and Postcolonial Histories: Comparative Reflections on the Legacies of Empire.”
Kymlicka, Will. 2004. “Culturally Responsive Policies.”
O’Leary, Brendan. 2004. “Building Inclusive States.”
Sabbagh, Daniel. 2004. “Affirmative Action Policies: An International Perspective.”
Sen, Amartya. 2004a. “Cultural Freedom and Human Development.”
Stavenhagen, Rodolfo. 2004. “Indigenous Peoples in Comparative
Perspective.”
Stepan, Alfred, Juan J. Linz, and Yogendra Yadav. 2004. “”Nation State” or “State Nation”?: Conceptual Reflections and
Some Spanish, Belgian and Indian Data.”
UNDP (United Nations Development Programme). 2004. “BCPR
(Bureau for Crisis Prevention and Recovery) Geneva: Contribution to HDR2004.”

Regional studies
Bhargava, Rajeev. 2004. “Inclusion and Exclusion in South Asia:
The Role of Religion.”
Jomo, K. S., with Wee Chong Hui 2004. “Affirmative Action and
Exclusion in Malaysia: Ethnic and Regional Inequalities in a
Multicultural Society.”
Moghadam, Valentine. 2004. “Cultural Traditions and Gender
Equality in the Arab Region.”
Moncrieffe, Joy. 2004. “Ethnic Diversity and State Response in the
Caribbean.”
Moyo, Sam. 2004. “Dominance of Ethnic and Racial Groups: The
African Experience.”
Prah, Kwesi Kwaa. 2004. “African Wars and Ethnic Conflict—
Rebuilding Failed States.”
Rubin, Barnett R. 2004. “Central Asia: Wars and Ethnic Conflicts—Rebuilding Failed States.”
Sheth, D. L. 2004. “Caste, Ethnicity and Exclusion in South Asia:
The Role of Affirmative Action Policies in Building Inclusive
Societies.”
Yashar, Deborah. 2004. “Citizenship and Ethnic Politics in Latin
America: Building Inclusive Societies.”
Zolberg, Aristide. 2004. “The Democratic Management of Cultural
Differences: Building Inclusive Societies in Western Europe
and North America.”

References
Abed-Kotob, Sana. 1995. “The Accommodationists Speak: Goals
and Strategies of the Muslim Brotherhood of Egypt.” International Journal of Middle East Studies 27(3): 321–39.

112

Abuza, Zachary. 2002. “Tentacles of Terror: Al Qaeda’s Southeast Asian Network.” Contemporary Southeast Asia 24(3):
427–65.
Addison, T., and A. Rahman. 2001. “Why is So Little Spent on Educating the Poor?” Discussion Paper 2001/29. World Institute for Development Economics Research, Helsinki.
ADL (Anti-Defamation League). 2003. “Extremism in America.”
[http://www.adl.org/learn/ext_us/]. December 2003.
AFP (Agence France Presse). 2004. “Pakistan Approves 100 Million Dollars to Reform Religious Schools.” 7 January.
Afrikanska Språk. 2004. “Small and Endangered Languages of
Africa: A Bibliographical Survey.” Stockholm. [http://www.
african.gu.se/research/elbiblio.html]. February 2004.
Agarwal, Bina. 1994. A Field Of One’s Own; Gender and Land
Rights in South Asia. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Aleinikoff, T. Alexander, and Douglas Klusmeyer, eds. 2000.
From Migrants to Citizens: Membership in a Changing
World. Washington, DC: Brookings Institution Press.
Alesina, Alberto, Reza Baqir, and William Easterly. 1997. Public
Goods and Ethnic Divisions. NBER Working Paper 6009.
Washington, DC: National Bureau of Economic Research.
Alexander, J., and J. McGregor. 2000. “Ethnicity and the Politics of
Conflict: The Case of Matabeleland.” In S. F. Nafziger and R.
Vayrynen, eds. War, Hunger and Displacement: The Origin
of Human Emergencies. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Alfred, Taiaiake. 1995. Heeding the Voices of Our Ancestors: Mohawk Politics and the Rise of Native Nationalism. Toronto:
Oxford University Press.
Alvim, Marta. 2002. “Mixed Race, Mixed Feeling.” Los Angeles.
[http://www.brazil.com/cvmar02.com]. February 2004.
Ambedkar, B. R. 2002. “Basic Features of the Indian Constitution.”
In Valerian Rodriguez, ed. The Essential Writings of B.R.
Ambedkar. New Delhi: Oxford University Press.
Ansari, Humayun. 2002. “Muslims in Britain.” Minority Rights
Group International, London. [http://www.minorityrights.
org/admin/Download/Pdf/muslimsinbritain.pdf]. February
2004.
Appadurai, Arjun. 1996. Modernity at Large: Cultural Dimensions
of Globalization. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press.
Appiah, K. Anthony. 1996. “Race, Culture, Identity: Misunderstood
Connections.” In K. Anthony Appiah and Amy Gutmann, eds.
Color Consciousness: The Political Morality of Race.
Princeton: Princeton University Press.
Appiah, K. Anthony, and Henry Gates. 1995. Identities. Chicago:
University Chicago Press.
Arizpe, Lourdes. 2000. “Cultural Heritage and Globalization.” In
Erica Avrami, Randall Mason, and Marta De La Torre, eds.
Values and Heritage Conservation. Los Angeles: Getty
Conservation Institute.
The Arizona Republic. 2003. “English-Only Latinos on the Rise.”
5 May. [http://www.azcentral.com/arizonarepublic/news/articles/0505speakingspanish.html]. February 2004.
Arjomand, Said Amir. 1989. “The Emergence of Islamic Political
Ideologies.” In James A. Beckford and Thomas Luckman, eds.
The Changing Face of Religion. London: Sage.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

The Associated Press. 2003. “Falun Gong Turns to International
Courts in Campaign Against Chinese Leadership.” 26 September. [http://www.rickross.com/reference/fa_lun_gong/
falun282.html]. February 2004.
Aston, W. G. 1972. Nihongi: Chronicles of Japan from the Earliest Time to A.D. 697. Tokyo: Tuttle.
ATSIA (Office of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Affairs, Department of Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous
Affairs, Australia). 2003. “Land and Native Title.”
[http://www.minister.immi.gov.au/atsia/facts/pdf/land.pdf].
December 2003.
Austin, Dennis, and Michael O’Neill, eds. 2000. Democracy and
Cultural Diversity. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Australian Bureau of Statistics. 2004. “Indigenous Health: Greater
Risks, Shorter Life Expectancy.” Canberra. [http://www.abs.
gov.au/Ausstats/abs@.nsf/Lookup/39A210FEEAE928D4CA
256AB7007FBBFE]. February 2004.
Australian Bureau of Statistics, Community Relations Commission,
Census Statistics. 2001. “The People of New South Wales.”
[http://www.crc.nsw.gov.au/statistics/Nsw/SydneyStatistical
Division4pp.pdf]. March 2004.
Avrami, Erica, Randall Mason, and Marta De La Torre, eds. 2000.
Values and Heritage Conservation. Los Angeles: Getty
Conservation Institute.
Awakuni, Gene, and Jeffery Scott Mio. 2000. Resistance to Multiculturalism: Issues and Interventions. Philadelphia and
London: Brunner/Mazel.
The Bangkok Post. 2000. “Australia’s Aboriginal Genocides.” 10
September.
———. 2001. “The Genocide of Native Americans.” 29 July.
Bangura, Yusuf. 2004. “Ethnic Structure, Inequality and Governance of the Public Sector.” United Nations Research Institute for Social Development, Geneva.
Bardhan, Pranab. 1997. “Method in the Madness? A Political
Economy Analysis of the Ethnic Conflicts in Less Developed Countries.” World Development 25(9): 1381–98.
Baron, David P., and Daniel Diermeier. 2001. “Elections, Governments and Parliaments in Proportional Representation Systems.” The Quarterly Journal of Economics 116(3): 933–67.
Barraclough, Steven. 1998. “Al-Azhar: Between the Government
and the Islamists.” The Middle East Journal 52(2): 236–49.
Barro, Robert J., and Rachel M. McCleary. 2003. “Religion and Economic Growth.” Cambridge, Mass. [http://post.economics.
harvard.edu/faculty/barro/papers/Religion_and_Economic_
Growth.pdf]. March 2004.
Barry, Brian. 2001. Culture and Equality: An Egalitarian Critique of Multiculturalism. Cambridge: Polity.
Basu, Alaka. 1992. Culture, the Status of Women and Demographic Behaviour. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Bauböck, Rainer, and John Rundell, eds. 1998. Blurred Boundaries: Migration, Ethnicity and Citizenship. Aldershot:
Ashgate.
Bauböck, Rainer. 2001. “Multinational Federalism: Territorial or
Cultural Autonomy?” Willy Brandt Series of Working Papers.
School of International Migration and Ethnic Relations.
Malmö University, Malmö, Sweden. [http://racoon.mah.se/
Forsk.nsf/0/2e9cc319839b3a2dc1256cf5005a4f8e/$FILE/
Workingpaper201.pdf]. February 2004.
Bell-Fiakoff, Andrew. 1993. “A Brief History of Ethnic Cleansing.”
Foreign Affairs 72(3): 110–21.
Bengwayan, Michael A. 2003. “Intellectual and Cultural Property
Rights of Indigenous and Tribal Peoples in Asia.” Minority
Rights Group International, London.
Benhabib, Seyla, ed. 1996. Democracy and Difference: Contesting the Boundaries of the Political. Princeton: Princeton University Press.
Benhabib, Seyla. 2002. The Claims of Culture: Equality and
Diversity in the Global Era. Princeton: Princeton University Press.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

Berman, Eli. 2003. Hamas, Taliban and the Jewish Underground: An Economist’s View of Radical Religious Militias. NBER Working Paper 10004. Cambridge, Mass.:
National Bureau of Economic Research. [http://www.nber
.org/ papers/w10004]. January 2004.
Bgoya, W., N. Billany, M. Lujanen, R. Noonan, T. Paajanen, and E.
Syrjanen. 1997. “The Economics of Publishing Educational Materials in Africa.” Working Group on Books and Learning
Materials, Perspectives on African Book Development. The Association for the Development of Education in Africa, London.
Bhagwati, Jagdish. 2003. “Borders Beyond Control.” Foreign Affairs 82(1): 98–104.
Bhavnani, Ravi, and David Backer. 2000. “Localized Ethnic Conflict and Genocide: Accounting for Differences in Rwanda
and Burundi.” Journal of Conflict Resolution 44(3): 283–306.
Bird, Karen. 2003. “The Political Representation of Women and
Ethnic Minorities in Established Democracies: A Framework for Comparative Research.” Paper presented at the
Academy for Migration Studies in Denmark, Aalborg University, 11 November, Aalborg, Denmark. [http://www.
socsci.mcmaster.ca/polisci/emplibrary/amidpaper.pdf]. February 2004.
Blau, Judith. 1993. Social Contracts and Economic Markets.
New York: Plenum.
Blau, Judith, ed. 2001. The Blackwell Companion to Sociology.
Oxford: Blackwell.
Boix, Charles. 1999. “Setting the Rules of the Game. The Choice
of Electoral Systems in Advanced Democracies.” American
Political Science Review 93: 609–24.
Boothroyd, David. 2004. “United Kingdom Election Results.”
London. [http://www.election.demon.co.uk/ge2001.html].
February 2004.
Boulle, L. J. 1984. South Africa and the Consociational Option:
A Constitutional Analysis. Cape Town: Juta.
Bowen, W., and B. Derek. 1998. The Shape of the River: Long-Term
Consequences of Considering Race in College and University Admissions. Princeton: Princeton University Press.
Breytenbach, W. J. 2000. “Democracy in South Africa: What Kind
and Is It Consolidating?” Bureau for Economic Research. University of Stellenbosch, Johannesburg. [http://www.kas.org.za/
Publications/SeminarReports/ConsolidatingDemocracy/
Consolidating%20Democracy.pdf]. February 2004.
Brindis, C. D., A. K. Driscoll, M. A. Biggs, and L. T. Valderrama. 2002.
“Fact Sheet on Latino Youth: Immigrant Generation.” Center
for Reproductive Health Research and Policy. Department of
Obstetrics, Gynecology and Reproductive Health Sciences and
the Institute for Health Policy Studies. University of California
at San Francisco, San Francisco. [http://reprohealth.ucsf.edu/
articles/Latino.imm.pdf]. February 2004.
Brint, Michael, and Lukic Renéo, eds. 2001. Culture, Politics and
Nationalism in the Age of Globalization. Aldershot: Ashgate.
Brock-Utne, Birgit. 2002. “Language, Democracy and Education
in Africa.” Discussion Paper 15. Nordiska Afrikainstitut.
Uppsala, Sweden.
Bromley, Yulian. 1974. Soviet Ethnology and Anthropology
Today. The Hague: Mouton.
Brown, Michael E., and Sumit Ganguly, eds. 1997. Government
Policies and Ethnic Relations in Asia and the Pacific.
Cambridge, Mass. and London: MIT Press.
Brucker, Herbert, Gil Epstein, Barry McCormick, Gilles SaintPaul, Alessandra Venturini, and Klaus Zimmermann. 2001.
“Managing Migration in the European Welfare State.” Third
European Conference of the Fondazione Rodolfo Debenedetti
“Immigration Policy and the Welfare State,” June, Trieste,
Italy. [http://www.frdb.org/images/customer/copy_0_paper1
_23jun01.pdf]. February 2004.
Brumann, Christoph. 1999. “Writing for Culture. Why a Successful Concept Should not be Discarded.” Current Anthropology 40.

113

Brumberg, Daniel. 2002. “Islamists and the Politics of Consensus.”
Journal of Democracy 13(3): 109–15.
Bryld, Erik, Heather Bryant, Nanako Tsukahara, Leela Sthapit, and
Mayline Py. 2003. “Rural Urban Linkages (RLL) Under the
Rural Urban Partnership Programme (RUPP): A Case of
Affirmative Action for Dalits in Nepal.” United Nations Development Programme, Kathmandu.
Buck, Tobias. 2004. “Brussels Call for Bigger Budget Will Irk
Rich States.” Financial Times. 9 January.
Burnley, Ian H. 2001. The Impact of Immigration on Australia:
A Demographic Approach. South Melbourne and Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Buvollen, Hans Petter. 2002. “Cultural and Legal Barriers to Justice in Guatemala.” UNDP Access to Justice Workshop,
1 March, Oslo. [http://www.undp.org/governance/cd/
documents/34.pdf]. February 2002.
Byman, Daniel L., Peter Chalk, Bruce Hoffman, William Rosenau
and David Brannan. 2001. Trends in Outside Support for
Insurgent Movements. Santa Monica, Calif.: RAND.
Caballero, Gonzalo. 2003. “The Dynamics of the Spanish Institutional Evolution Towards Economic, Social and Political
Decentralization, 1950–2000: Markets, Democracy and Federalism for Economic Development.” Paper presented at
the 2003 European Association for Evolutionary Political
Economy Conference, 7 November, Maastricht, Netherlands. [http://eaepe.infonomics.nl/papers/caballero.pdf].
March 2004.
Campagna, Joel. 1996. “From Accommodation to Confrontation:
The Muslim Brotherhood in the Mubarak Years.” Journal
of International Affairs 50(1): 278–304.
Caplan, Lionel. 1987. Studies in Religious Fundamentalism.
Houndsmills and London: Macmillan.
Care, Jennifer Corrin. 1999. “Conflict Between Customary Laws
and Human Rights in the South Pacific.” Paper presented
at the 12th Commonwealth Law Conference, 1 September,
Kuala Lumpur. [http://www.mlj.com.my/articles/
JenniferCorrin-Care.htm]. February 2004.
Carens, Joseph H. 2000. Culture, Citizenship and Community:
A Contextual Exploration of Justice as Evenhandedness.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
CBD (Convention on Biological Diversity). 2002. “Traditional
Knowledge and the Convention on Biological Diversity.”
[http://www.biodiv.org/programmes/socio-eco/traditional/].
February 2004.
Chicuecue, Noel Muchenga. 1997. “Reconciliation: The Role of
Truth Commissions and Alternative Ways of Healing.”
Development in Practice 7(4): 483–86.
Chua, Amy. 2003. World on Fire: How Exporting Free Market
Democracy Breeds Ethnic Hatred and Global Instability.
New York: Doubleday.
CIA (Central Intelligence Agency). 2003. “The World Factbook
2003.” Washington, DC. [http://www.cia.gov/cia/publications/
factbook/]. February 2004.
Clifford, James. 1988. The Predicament of Culture: TwentiethCentury Ethnography, Literature and Art. Cambridge,
Mass.: Harvard University Press.
CNN. 2003. “U.S. Court Rebukes Bush Over Gitmo.”
18 December. [http://www.cnn.com/2003/LAW/12/18/
court.gitmo/index.html]. February 2004.
Cohen, Abner. 1974. Two-Dimensional Man: An Essay on the
Anthropology of Power and Symbolism in Complex Society. Berkeley, Calif.: University of California Press.
Cohn, B. 1996. Colonialism and Its Forms of Knowledge:
The British in India. Princeton: Princeton University
Press.
Collier, Paul, and Anke Hoeffler. 2001. “Greed and Grievance in
Civil War.” World Bank, Washington, DC. [http://www.
worldbank.org/research/conflict/papers/greedgrievance_
23oct.pdf]. February 2004.

114

Commission on Intellectual Property Rights. 2002. “Integrating Intellectual Property Rights and Development Policy: Report
of the Commission on Intellectual Property Rights.” London.
[http://www.iprcommission.org/graphic/documents/
final_report.htm]. February 2004.
Congleton, Roger D. 2000. “A Political Efficiency Case for Federalism in Multinational States: Controlling Ethnic RentSeeking.” In G. Galeotti, P. Slamon, and R. Wintrobe, eds.
Competition and Structure: The Political Economyof Collective Decisions: Essays in Honor of Albert Breton. New
York: Cambridge University Press.
Congleton, Roger D., Andreas Kyriacou, and Jordi Bacaria. 1999.
“Political and Economic Origins of Asymmetric Federalism: A Model of Endogenous Centralization.” [http://
selene.uab.es/jbacaria/Economia_Aplicada/asymfed3.pdf].
March 2004.
Conner, Walker. 1986. “The Impact of Homelands Upon Diasporas.” In Gabriel Sheffer, ed. Modern Diaspora in International Politics. New York: St. Martin’s Press.
Conversi, Daniele, ed. 2002. Ethnonationalism in the Contemporary Word: Walker Connor and the Study of Nationalism. London: Routledge.
Coombe, Rosemary J. 1998. “Intellectual Property, Human Rights
and Sovereignty: New Dilemmas in International Law Posed
by the Recognition of Indigenous Knowledge and the Conservation of Biodiversity.” Indiana Journal of Global Legal
Studies 6(1): 59–115.
Corbridge, Stuart, and John Harriss. 2000. Reinventing India.
Cambridge: Polity Press.
Cornell, Svante E., and Regine A. Spector. 2002. “Central Asia: More
than Islamic Extremists.” The Washington Quarterly 25(1):
193–206.
Council of Europe. 2000. “Conference on Diversity and Cohesion:
New Challenges for the Integration of Immigrants and
Minorities.” [http://www.coe.int/T/E/Social_Cohesion/
Migration/Documentation/Publications_and_reports/
Reports_and_proceedings/20001201_CDMG(2000)35_
ProceedingsNamur.asp]. March 2004.
Coussey, Mary. 2000. “Framework of Integration Policies.” Directorate General III–Social Cohesion, Directorate of Social
Affairs and Health. Council of Europe, Brussels.
CPS (Crown Prosecution Service). 2002. “Racist Incident Monitoring
Annual Report 2001–2002.” London. [http://www.cps.gov.uk/
Home/CPSPublications/Scheme/reports.htm]. January 2004.
CRIP (Curriculum Reform Implementation Project). 2004. “Curriculum Reform in Papua New Guinea.” Port Moresby.
[http://www.pngcurriculumreform.ac.pg/text/
CURRICULUM%20REFORM%20IN%20PAPUA%20
NEW%20GUINEA.pdf]. February 2004.
Crowley, B. 1987. The Self, the Individual and the Community.
Oxford: Clarendon Press.
CSD (Commission on Sustainable Development Indigenous Peoples’ Caucus) and ICC (Inuit Circumpolar Conference).
2002. “Dialogue Paper by Indigenous People.” Preparatory
Committee for the World Summit on Sustainable Development First Substantive Session, New York. [http://www.treaty
council.org/new_page_5241221.htm]. March 2004.
Cummings, S. M., and S. Tamayo. 1994. “Language and Education in Latin America: An Overview.” Human Resources
Development and Operations Policy Working Papers. World
Bank, Washington, DC.
Davenport, Christian. 2004. “Minorities At Risk: Dataset Users
Manual 030703.” The Minorities At Risk (MAR) Project.
Center for International Development and Conflict Management. University of Maryland, Baltimore. [http://www.
cidcm.umd.edu/inscr/mar/margene/MAR-codebook_
040903.doc]. February 2004.
De Ferranti, David, Guillermo Perry, Francisco H. G. Ferreira,
and Michael Walton. 2003. “Inequality in Latin America

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

and the Caribbean: Breaking with History?” World Bank,
Washington, DC.
De Varennes, F. 1996. “Law, Language and the Multiethnic State.”
Language and Communication 16(3): 291–300.
Delgado-Moreira, Juan M. 2000. Multicultural Citizenship of the
European Union. Aldershot: Ashgate.
Department of Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs, Australia. 2003. “Multicultural Australia: United in
Diversity.” Canberra. [http://www.immi.gov.au/multicultural/
australian/index.htm]. February 2004.
D’Ercole, Marco Mira, and Andrea Salvini. 2003. “Towards
Sustainable Development: The Role of Social Protection.” Social, Employment and Migration Working Papers. Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, Geneva.
[http://www.oecd.org/dataoecd/19/2/16362056.pdf]. February 2004.
Directorate of Social Affairs and Health. 2000. “Diversity and
Cohesion: New Challenges for the Integration of Immigrants
and Minorities.” Council of Europe, Strasbourg, France.
[http://www.social.coe.int/en/cohesion/action/publi/
migrants/EDéfis.pdf]. February 2004.
Discover France. 2000. “French National Holidays, Festivals, Religious Celebrations.” Paris. [http://www.discoverfrance.net/
France/DF_holidays.shtml]. March 2004.
Donders, Yvonne. 2003. Towards a Right to Cultural Identity?
Antwerpen and Oxford: Intersentia.
Doomernik, Jeroen. 2001. “Immigration, Multiculturalism and
the Nation State in Western Europe.” Paper presented at the
United Nations Research Institute for Social Development
Conference on Racism and Public Policy, 3 September, Durban, South Africa. [http://www.unrisd.org/unrisd/website/
projects.nsf/(httpProjectsForResearchHome-en)/CE2B1BCD4
B5F5D3A80256B4900530E39?OpenDocument]. February
2004.
Douglas, W. A. 1988. “A Critique of Recent Trends in the Analysis of Ethnonationalism.” Ethnic and Racial Studies 11(2):
192–206.
Dragoljub, Ackovic. 2000. “Roma in Serbia: Introducing Romany
Language and Culture into Primary Schools.” Minority Rights
Group International, London.
Droege, Susanne, and Birgit Soete. 2001. “Trade-Related Intellectual Property Rights, North-South Trade, and Biological Diversity.” Environmental and Resource Economics 19(2): 149–63.
DUMC (Dutch Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia).
2002. “Racial Violence and Violence Incited by the Extreme
Right 2001 and 2002.” Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
[http://www.lbr.nl/internationaal/DUMC/publicatie/ar_racial
_violence2001.pdf]. January 2004.
Duncan, T., K. Jefferis, and P. Molutsi. 2000. “Botswana: Social
Development in a Resource-Rich Country.” In Santosh
Mehrotra and Jolly Richard, eds. Development with a
Human Face: Experiences in Social Achievement and
Economic Growth. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Dunleavy, Patrick, and Brendan O’Leary. 1987. Theories of the
State: The Politics of Liberal Democracy. Basingstoke:
MacMillan Education.
During, A. T. 1992. “Guardians of the Land: Indigenous Peoples
and the Health of the Earth.” Worldwatch Paper 112. Worldwatch Institute. Washington, DC. [http://www.worldwatch.
org/pubs/paper/112.html/]. February 2004.
———. 1993. Supporting Indigenous Peoples in State of the
World 1993: A Worldwatch Institute Report on Progress
Toward a Sustainable Society. New York: W.W. Norton.
Dutcher, N. 1982. “The Use of First and Second Languages in Primary Education.” Working Paper. World Bank, Education
Department Washington, DC.
Eades, D. 2004. “Participation in a Second Language and Second
Dialect Speakers in the Legal System.” Annual Review of
Applied Linguistics 23: 113–33.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

Easterley, William, and Ross Levine. 1997. “Africa’s Growth
Tragedy: Policies and Ethnic Divisions.” The Quarterly
Journal of Economics 112(4): 1203–250.
Eatwell, Roger. 2000. “The Rebirth of the ‘Extreme Right’ in
Western Europe?” Parliamentary Affairs 53(3): 407–25.
The Economist. 2000. “Sri Lanka Backs Away from Devolution.”
10 August.
———. 2002a. “Survey on Migration.” 2 November.
———. 2002b. “The Best of Reasons.” 31 October.
———. 2003a. “Ends, Means and Barbarity: Special Report on Torture.” 11 January.
———. 2003b. “Religion, Politics and Moderation.” 17 May.
———. 2004a. “Africa’s Engine.” Survey: Sub-Saharan Africa. 15
January.
———. 2004b. “The War of the Headscarves.” 7 February.
Edgerton, Susan Huddleston. 1996. Translating the Curriculum: Multiculturalism into Cultural Studies. New York and
London: Routledge.
Elazar, Daniel. 1998. Constitutionalizing Globalization. Lanham,
Maryland: Rowman & Littlefield.
Electionworld.org. 2004. “Elections Around the World.”
[http://www.electionworld.org/]. February 2004.
Engineer, Asghar Ali. 2003. “Uniform Civil Code or Legal Pluralism.” Institute of Islamic Studies and Center for Study of Society and Secularism, Mumbai. [http://ecumene.org/IIS/
csss114.htm]. February 2004.
———. 2004. Communal Riots After Independence: A Comprehensive Account. New Delhi: Shipra.
Entelis, John P. 2002. “Morocco: Democracy Denied.” Le Monde
Diplomatique. 1 October. [http://mondediplo.com/2002/
10/13morocco]. February 2004.
Entzinger, Han. 2003. “Nationale Identiteit en burgerschap.”
Civis Mundi 42(1): 22–26.
Esman, Milton J. 1986. “Diasporas and International Relations.”
In Gabriel Sheffer, ed. Modern Diaspora in International
Politics. New York: St. Martin’s Press.
Etounga-Manguelle, Daniel. 2000. “Does Africa Need a Cultural Adjustment Program?” In Lawrence E. Harrison and Samuel P.
Huntington, eds. Culture Matters. New York: Basic Books.
EUMC (European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia). 2002. “Racism and Xenophobia in the EU Member
States: Trends, Developments and Good Practice in 2002.”
Annual Report 2002, Part 2. Vienna. [http://eumc.eu.int/
eumc/index.php?fuseaction=content.dsp_cat_content&catid=
3fb38ad3e22bb]. January 2004.
European Union. 2003. “The Doha Development Agenda: Outcome of the WTO Ministerial, European Parliament Resolution on the 5th Ministerial Conference of the WTO in
Cancun.” [http://europa.eu.int/comm/trade/issues/
newround/doha_da/epr250903_en.htm]. March 2004.
———. 2004. “The Commissioner of Foreign Affairs of the Berlin
Senate (Die Auslanderbeauftagte des Senats von Berlin).”
Berlin. [http://europa.eu.int/comm/employment_social/
fundamental_rights/pdf/legisln/mslegln/de_berlin_en.pdf].
March 2004.
Fafunwa, B. 1990. “Using National Languages in Education: A Challenge to African Educators.” In African Thoughts on the
Prospects of Education for All. Paris: UNESCO Publishing.
Fahmy, Ninette S. 1998. “The Performance of the Muslim Brotherhood in the Egyptian Syndicates: An Alternative Formula
for Reform?” The Middle East Journal 52(4): 551–62.
FBI (Federal Bureau of Investigation). 1999. “Hate Crime Data Collection Guidelines.” Washington, DC. [http://www.fbi.gov/
ucr/ucr.htm#hate]. April 2004.
———. 2002. “Hate Crime Statistics 2002.” Washington, DC.
[http://www.fbi.gov/ucr/ ucr.htm#hate]. January 2004.
———. 2004. “Uniform Crime Reports: Hate Crime Statistics.”
Washington, DC. [http://www.fbi.gov/ucr/ucr.htm#hate].
February 2004.

115

Feldman, Leonard C. 2002. “Redistribution, Recognition and the
State: The Irreducibly Political Dimension of Injustice.” Political Theory 30(3): 410–40.
Fermin, Alfons. 2001. “The Justification of Mandatory Integration
Programmes for New Immigrants.” European Research Centre on Migration and Ethnic Relations, Utrecht.
Financial Times. 2004. “French Filmmakers Fear for L’Exception Culturelle.” 9 January.
Fleiner, Thomas, ed. 2003. Multicultural Federalism: The Swiss
Case. Fribourg, Switzerland: The Institute of Federalism.
Florida, Richard, and Gary Gates. 2002. “Technology and Tolerance: Diversity and High Tech Growth.” The Brookings Review 20(1): 32–35.
Forero, Juan. 2003. “Seeking Balance: Growth vs. Culture in Amazon.” The New York Times. 10 December.
Fossas, Enric. 1999. “Asymmetry and Pluriantionality in Spain.”
Working Paper, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona.
[http://www.diba.es/icps/working_papers/docs/Wp_i_167.pdf].
March 2004.
Fraenkel, Jon. 2003. “Ethnic Structure, Inequality and Public Sector Governance in the Fiji Islands.” Ethnic Conflict, Inequality
and Public Sector Governance Country Studies. United Nations Research Institute for Social Development, Geneva.
France, Ministère de Jeunesse, Éducation et Recherche. 2004.
“Bulletin Officiel: Calendrier des Fêtes Légales.” [http://www.
education.gouv.fr/bo/2004/4/MENA0302913C.htm]. March
2004.
Fraser, Nancy, and Axel Honneth. 2003. Redistribution or Recognition? A Political-Philosophical Exchange. London: Verso
Books.
Fraser, Nancy. 1989. Unruly Practices: Power, Discourse and Gender in Contemporary Social Theory. Cambridge: Polity.
———. 1995. “From Redistribution to Recognition? Dilemmas of
Justice in a ‘Postsocialist’ Age.” New Left Review 212: 68–93.
———. 1997. Justice Interrupts: Critical Reflections on the ‘Postsocialist’ Condition. New York: Routledge.
Front National. 2004. “Nos Propositions: Identite.” [http://www.
frontnational.com/doc_prop_identite.php]. March 2004.
Fukuda-Parr, Sakiko. 2001. “In Search of Indicators of Culture and
Development: Review of Progress and Proposals for Next
Steps.” Text for the World Culture Report. New York.
[http://www.undp.org/hdro/events/rioforum/fukudaparr2.
pdf]. February 2004.
Funke, Hajo. 2001. “Europe at the Threshold: Fairness or Fortress?
Racism, Public Policy and Anti-racist Concepts.” Paper presented at the United Nations Research Institute for Social Development Conference on Racism and Public Policy,
3 September, Durban. [http://www.unrisd.org/unrisd/
website/projects.nsf/(httpProjectsForResearchHome-en)/
CE2B1BCD4B5F5D3A80256B4900530E39?OpenDocument]. February 2004.
Gandhi, Mohandas. 1921. “English Learning.” Young India.
1 June.
Garson, Jean-Pierre, and Anais Loizillon. 2003. “Changes and
Challenges, Europe and Migration from 1950 to Present.”
Paper presented at the conference jointly organized by the
European Commision and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Develoment, “The Economic and Social Aspects of Migration”, 21–22 January, Brussels. [http://www.
oecd.org/dataoecd/15/3/15516948.pdf]. February 2004.
Geddes, Andrew. 2002. “Europe’s Ageing Workforce.” BBC Online. 20 June. [http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/europe/
2053581.stm]. February 2004.
Gerges, Fawaz A. 2000. “The End of the Islamist Insurgency in
Egypt?: Costs and Prospects.” The Middle East Journal
54(4): 592–612.
Ghosh, Bimal. 2003. “Elusive Protection, Uncertain Lands: Migrants’ Access to Human Rights.” International Organization
for Migration, Geneva.

116

Gill, Emily R. 2001. Becoming Free: Autonomy and Diversity
in the Liberal Polity. Lawrence: University Press of Kansas.
Giovarelli, Renée, and Cholpon Akmatova. 2002. “Local Institutions that Enforce Customary Law in the Kyrgyz Republic and
their Impact on Women’s Rights.” Agriculture and Rural Development E-Paper. World Bank, Washington, DC.
Godmer, Laurent, and Laurent Kestel. 2001. “Extremism and
Democratic Coalitions: The Institutional Integration of
Extreme Right Parties in the Regional Parliaments of Germany, Austria and France.” Paper presented at the European
Consortium for Political Research Conference, 6 April,
Grenoble, France. [http://www.essex.ac.uk/ecpr/events/
jointsessions/paperarchive/grenoble.asp?section=14]. February 2004.
Goldstone, Leo. 1998. “Cultural Statistics.” In Ruth Towse, ed. A
Handbook of Cultural Economics. Cheltenham, UK: Edward Elgar. [https://dspace.ubib.eur.nl/retrieve/1351/
TOWSE+EBOOK_pages0189-0194.pdf]. February 2004.
Goodman, Diane J. 2004. Promoting Diversity and Social Justice: Educating People From Privileged Groups. Thousand Oaks, Calif. and London: Sage.
Goody, Jack. 1996. The East in the West. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Graeme, Hugo. 2003. “Circular Migration: Keeping Development
Rolling.” Migration Policy Institute, Washington, DC.
[http://www.migrationinformation.org/Feature/display.cfm
?ID=129]. February 2004.
Granovetter, Mark. 1985. “Economic Action and Social Structure:
The Problem of Embeddedness.” American Journal of Sociology 91: 481–510.
Greif, Avner. 1994. “Cultural Beliefs and Organization of Society: A
Historical and Theoretical Reflection on Collectivist and Individualist Societies.” Journal of Political Economy 102: 912–50.
Griffiths, Ann L., and Karl Nerenberg, eds. 2002. Handbook of
Federal Countries, 2002. Montreal and Kingston: McGillQueen’s University Press.
Grillo, R. D. 1998. Pluralism and the Politics of Difference:
State, Culture and Ethnicity in Comparative Perspective.
Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Grin, Francois. 2003. Language Policy Evaluation and the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages. Berkeley, Calif.: University of California Press.
Grove, A. K., and N. A. Carter. 1999. “Not All Blarney is Cast in
Stone: International Cultural Conflict in Northern Ireland.”
Political Psychology 20(4): 725–65.
The Guardian. 2001. “The Truth of Multicultural Britain.”
25 November.
Gurr, Ted Robert. 1993. Minorities At Risk: A Global View of
Ethnopolitical Conflicts. Washington, DC: United States Institute for Peace Press.
———. 2000. People Versus States. Washington, DC: United
States Institute for Peace Press.
Gutmann, Amy, and Dennis Thompson. 1996. Democracy and Disagreement. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press.
Gutmann, Amy, ed. 1994. Multiculturalism. Princeton: Princeton University Press.
Gutmann, Amy. 1995. “Challenges of Multiculturalism in Democratic Education.” Princeton. [http://www.ed.uiuc.edu/
EPS/PES-Yearbook/95_docs/gutmann.html. February 2004.
Habermas, Juergen. 1975. Legitimation Crisis. Boston: Beacon Press.
———. 1996. Between Facts and Norms: Contributions to a Discourse Theory of Law and Democracy. Cambridge, Mass.:
MIT Press.
Hafez, Mohammed M. 2000. “Armed Islamist Movements and Political Violence in Algeria.” The Middle East Journal 54(4):
572–91.
Haffajee, Ferial. 1999. "South Africa: Blending Tradition and
Change." UNESCO Courier. November. [http://www.
unesco.org/courier/1999_11/uk/dossier/txt23.htm].

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

Halfin, Igal, ed. 2002. Language and Revolution: Making Modern Political Identities. London and Portland: Frank Cass.
Hammer, Juliane, and Helena Lindholm Schulz. 2003. The Palestinian Diaspora: Formation of Identities and Politics of
Homeland. London: Routledge.
Hansen, Thomas Blom. 2001. The Saffron Wave: Democracy and
Hindu Nationalism in Modern India. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Harding, Sandra, and Uma Narayan, eds. 2000. Decentering the
Center: Philosophy for a Multicultural, Postcolonial and
Feminist World. Bloomington: Indiana University Press.
Harris, Peter, and Ben Reilly. 1998. “Democracy and Deep-Rooted
Conflict: Options for Negotiators.” International Institute for
Democracy and Electoral Assistance, Stockholm.
Harrison, Lawrence E., and Samuel P. Huntington, eds. 2000. Culture Matters: How Values Shape Human Progress. New
York: Basic Books.
Hart, H. L. A. 1955. “Are There Any Natural Rights?” The Philosophical Review 64: 175–91.
Hastrup, Kirsten, ed. 2001. Legal Cultures and Human Rights:
The Challenge of Diversity. The Hague and London: Kluwer
Law Interantional.
Haubrich, Dirk. 2003. “September 11, Anti-Terror Laws and Civil
Liberties: Britain, France and Germany Compared.” Government and Opposition 38(1): 1–28.
Helwege, Ann. 1995. “Poverty in Latin America: Back to the
Abyss?” Journal of Interamerican Studies and World Affairs 37(3): 99–123.
HinduUnity.org. 2004. “HinduUnity.org: Promoting and Supporting the Ideals of the Bajrang Dal—V.H.P., Youth Wing
Bharat.” [http://hinduunity.org/aboutus.html]. April 2004.
Hoffman, Bruce. 1998–99. “Revival of Religious Terrorism Begs
for Broad U.S. Policy.” Rand Review 22(2). [http://www.
rand.org/publications/randreview/issues/rr.winter98.9/
methods.html. December 2003.
Honwana, Alcinda. 1999. “Non-Western Concepts of Mental
Health.” [http://earlybird.qeh.ox.ac.uk/rfgexp/rsp_tre/
student/nonwest/toc.htm]. March 2004.
Hoodfar, Homa, and Nelofer Pazira. 2003. “Building Civil Societies: A Guide for Social and Political Activism.” Santa Cruz,
Calif. [http://www2.ucsc.edu/globalinterns/cpapers/hoodfar
.pdf]. February 2004.
Human Rights Watch. 2002. “Human Rights Watch Statement:
Freedom of Religion—On the Occasion of the OSCE Human
Dimension Implementation.” New York. [http://www.hrw.
org/press/2002/09/osce-religion0912.htm]. February 2004.
———. 2003. “Nationality and Statelessness.” New York.
[http://www.hrw.org/campaigns/race/nationality.htm]. February 2004.
Huntington, Samuel P. 1996. The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking the World Order. New York: Simon and Schuster.
Iganski, Paul. 2002. “Hate Crimes Hurt More, But Should They
Be More Harshly Punished.” In Paul Iganski, ed. The Hate
Debate: Should Hate Be Punished as a Crime? London:
Profile Books.
Ignazi, Piero. 2003. Extreme Right Parties in Western Europe.
New York: Oxford University Press.
ILO (International Labour Organization). 2001. “Vietnam Desk
Review.” Project to Promote ILO Policy on Indigenous and
Tribal Peoples (Convention 169), Geneva.
———. 2003. ILO Convention on Indigenous and Tribal Peoples: A Manual. Geneva.
Independent Commission on Migration to Germany. 2001. “Structuring Immigration, Fostering Integration.” Berlin.
[http://www.eng.bmi.bund.de/Annex/en_14626/
Download_Summary.pdf]. February 2004.
Indian and Northern Affairs Canada. 2004. “Aboriginal Customary Law.” Ottawa. [http://www.ainc-inac.gc.ca/pr/pub/
matr/acl_e.html]. February 2004.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

India, Ministry of Education. 2004. Personal communication on
human resource development. March. New Delhi.
India, Ministry of Personnel. 2002. “Holidays to be Observed in
Government Offices During the Year 2002.” Department of
Personnel and Training, New Delhi. [http://persmin.nic.in/
circular/jcm3.html#6]. February 2004.
India, Office of the Registrar General. 2004. “Census of India.”
New Delhi. [http://www.censusindia.net/]. March 2004.
Indigenous Australia. 2003. “What is Cultural Heritage?”
[http://www.dreamtime.net.au/indigenous/culture.cfm].
February 2004.
Inglehart, Ronald. 1997. Modernization and Postmodernization: Cultural, Economic, and Political Change in 43 Societies. Princeton: Princeton University Press.
Inglehart, Ronald, and Wayne Baker. 2000. “Modernization, Cultural Change, and the Persistence of Traditional Values.”
American Sociological Review 65: 19–51.
Inglis, Christine. 2004. “Multiculturalism: New Policy Responses
to Diversity.” Policy Paper No. 4. United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization, Paris.
International Council on Metals and the Environment. 1999.
“Mining and Indigenous Peoples: Case Studies.” Ottawa.
International Federation of Human Rights. 2003. “Discrimination
Against Religious Minorities in Iran.” Paris. [http://www.fidh.
org/asie/rapport/2003/ir0108a.pdf]. February 2004.
The Internet Movie Database. 2004. “International All-Time Box
Office Chart.” [http://us.imdb.com/Charts/intltopmovies].
March 2004.
IOE (International Organisation of Employers). 2003. “Migration in Europe: Political, Social and Economic Dimensions.”
Background Document. London. [http://www.ioe-emp.org/
ioe_emp/pdf/migration_IOE_Moscow.pdf]. February 2004.
IOM (International Organization for Migration). 2003a. “Integration of Migrants: The IOM Approach.” Geneva.
[http://www.iom.si/pdf/Integration%20master.pdf]. February 2004.
———. 2003b. “Migration in a World of Global Change. New
Strategies and Policies for New Realities.” IOM Migration Policy and Research. Geneva.
———. 2003c. “World Migration Report 2003: Managing Migration Challenges and Responses for People on the Move.”
Geneva.
———. 2004. “Assisted Returns Service.” [http://www.iom.int/en/who/
main%5Fservice%5Fareas%5Fassisted.shtml]. March 2004.
IRR (Institute of Race Relations). 2003. “Norway: Progress Party
(FrP).” [http://www.irr.org.uk/europe/norway.html]. December 2003.
Jackman, Robert W., and Karin Volpert. 1996. “Conditions Favouring Parties of the Extreme Right in Western Europe.” British
Journal of Political Science 26(1): 501–21.
Jacobs, Dirk. 2003. “The Arab European League: The Rapid
Growth of a Radical Immigrant Movement.” Paper presented at the European Consortium for Political Research
Conference, 18 September, Marburg, Germany. [http://www.
essex.ac.uk/ecpr/events/generalconference/marburg/
papers/21/5/Jacobs.pdf]. February 2004.
Jarkko, Lars, and Tom W. Smith. 2001. “National Pride in CrossNational Perspective.” National Opinion Research Center.
University of Chicago, Chicago. [http://spitswww.uvt.nl/
web/iric/papers/pap1e1.doc]. February 2004.
Jeness, Valerie. 2002. “Contours of Hate Crime Politics and Law in
the United States.” In Paul Iganski, ed. The Hate Debate:
Should Hate be Punished as a Crime? London: Profile Books.
Jureidini, Ray. 2001. “Migrant Workers and Xenophobia in the Middle East.” Keynote address at the United Nations Research
Institute for Social Development Conference on Racism and
Public Policy, 3 September, Durban. [http://www.unrisd.org/
80256B3C005BCCF9/httpNetITFrame?ReadForm&parent
unid=8EAB85CCEBB1C65480256B6D00578762&parent

117

doctype=paper&netitpath=http://www.unrisd.org/unpublished_/
specialevents_/djureidi/content.htm]. February 2004.
Justiniano, Freddy. 2004. “Correspondence on the Political Situation in Bolivia and Ecuador.” United Nations Development
Programme, Regional Bureau for Latin America and the
Caribbean, New York. March 2004.
Justino, Patricia, and Julie Litchfield. 2003. “Economic Exclusion
and Discrimination: The Experience of Minorities and Indigenous Peoples.” Minority Rights Group International, London. [http://www.minorityrights.org/admin/Download/pdf/
IP_EconomicExclusion_JustinoLitchfield.pdf]. February 2004.
Kaldor, Mary, and Diego Muro. 2003. “Religious and Nationalist Militant Groups.” In H. Anheier, M. Glasius, and M. Kaldor, eds.
Global Civil Society 2003. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Kanbur, Ravi. 2001. “Economic Policy, Distribution and Poverty:
Nature of Disagreements.” Cornell University, Ithaca, New
York. [http://people.cornell.edu/pages/sk145/papers/
Disagreements.pdf]. February 2004.
Kanyinga, Karuti. 2003. “Ethnic Structure, Inequality and Governance of the Public Sector in Kenya.” Ethnic Structure, Inequality and Public Sector Governance Country Studies. United
Nations Research Institute for Social Development, Geneva.
Kapur, Devesh, and John McHale. 2003. “Migration’s New Payoff.” Foreign Policy 139: 48–57.
Kaviraj, Sudipto. 1992. “The Imaginary Institution of India.” In
Partha Chatterjee and Gyanendra Pandey, eds. Subaltern
Studies VII. New Delhi: Oxford University Press.
Kearns, Thomas R., and Austin Sarat. 1997. Identities, Politics and
Rights. Ann Arbor: University of Michigan Press.
———. 1999. Cultural Pluralism, Identity Politics and the Law.
Ann Arbor: University of Michigan Press.
Keating, Michael. 2002. “Plurinational Democracy in a PostSovereign Order.” Queen’s Papers on Europeanisation.
Institute of European Studies. Queen’s University of Belfast,
Belfast. [http://www.qub.ac.uk/ies/onlinepapers/poe1-02.pdf].
February 2004.
Kelso, Paul, and Jeevan Vasagar. 2002. “Muslims Reject Image of
Separate Society.” The Guardian. 17 June.
Kertzer, David I., and Dominique Arel, eds. 2002. Census and Identity: The Politics of Race, Ethnicity and Language in National Censuses. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Kiernan, Ben. 1999. “Sur La Notion de Génocide.” Le Débat.
1 March.
Klaus, David. 2003. “The Use of Indigenous Languages in Early
Basic Education in Papua New Guinea: A Model for Elsewhere?” Language and Education: An International Journal 17(2).
Knop, Karen. 2002. Diversity and Self-Determination in International Law. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Knowles, Caroline, and Vered Amit-Talai. 1996. Re-situating
Identities: The Politics of Race, Ethnicity and Culture. Orchard Park, New York: Broadview Press.
Kogacioglu, Dicle. 2003. “Dissolution of Political Parties by the
Constitutional Court in Turkey: Judicial Delimitation of the
Political Domain.” International Sociology 18(1): 258–76.
Koh, Harold Hongju. 2002. “The Case against Military Commissions.” The American Journal of International Law 96(2):
337–44.
Kongolo, Tshimanga. 2001. “Towards a More Balanced Coexistence of Traditional Knowledge and Pharmaceuticals Protection in Africa.” Journal of World Trade 35(2): 349–61.
Koopmans, Ruud. 2002. “Good Intentions Sometimes Make Bad
Policies: A Comparison of Dutch and German Integration
Policies.” Migrantenstudies 18: 87–92.
Kuruk, Paul. 2002. “African Customary Law and the Protection
of Folklore.” Bulletin Volume XXXVI Number 2. United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, Paris.
Kymlicka, Will, and Wayne Norman, eds. 2000. Citizenship in Diverse Societies. Oxford: Oxford University Press.

118

Kymlicka, Will. 1990. Contemporary Political Philosophy: An
Introduction. Oxford: Clarendon.
———. 1996. Multicultural Citizenship: A Liberal Theory of Minority Rights. Oxford: Clarendon.
———. 1998. Finding Our Way: Rethinking Ethnocultural Relations in Canada. Toronto and Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
———. 2001. Politics in the Vernacular: Nationalism, Multiculturalism and Citizenship. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
———. 2003. “Immigration, Citizenship, Multiculturalism: Exploring the Links.” The Political Quarterly 74(1): 195–208.
Lavery, David. 2004. “Universal Language: American Film and
Monoculture at Century’s End.” Paper presented at the annual
conference of the South Central Modern Language Association, 31 October, Dallas. [http://mtsu32.mtsu.edu:11072/
Writing/Universal%20Language.htm]. February 2004.
Lega Nord. 2004. “Stop Ai Clandestini.” [http://www.
leganord.org/a_2_docpolitici_clandestini.htm]. March 2004.
Leibfried, Stephan, and Elmar Rieger. 2003. Limits of Globalization:
Welfare States and the World Economy. Cambridge: Polity.
Lenoir, Rene. 1989. Les Exclus: Un Francais sur Dix. Paris: Editions de Seuil.
Leone, Richard C., and Greg Angrig Jr., eds. 2003. The War on
Our Freedoms: Civil Liberties in an Age of Terrorism. New
York: Century Foundation and Public Affairs Books.
Levin, Brian. 2001. “Extremism and the Constitution: How America’s Legal Evolution Affects the Response to Extremism.”
The American Behavioral Scientist 45(4): 714–55.
Levin, Jack, and Jack McDevitt. 1999. “Hate Crimes.” In Encyclopedia of Violence, Peace and Conflict. San Diego: Academic Press. [http://www.violence.neu.edu/publication4.html].
January 2004.
Lewis, Bernard. 1998. The Multiple Identities of the Middle East.
London: Weidenfeld and Nicholson.
Lewis, Justin, and Toby Miller, eds. 2003. Critical Cultural Policy
Studies: A Reader. Malden, Mass. and Oxford: Blackwell.
Lewis, Peter. 2003. “Nigeria: Elections in a Fragile Regime.” Journal of Democracy 14(3).
Libanio, José Carlos. 2004. Correspondence on the Share of AfroBrazilian Cabinet Members. March. Sao Paolo.
Licha, Isabel. 2002. “Citizen Participation and Local Government
in Latin America: Advances, Challenges and Best Practices.”
Paper presented at the Citizenship Participation in the Context of Fiscal Decentralization Conference, 2 September,
Kobe. [http://www.adb.org/Documents/Events/2002/
Citizen_Participation/Overview_LAC.pdf]. February 2004.
Linz, Juan J., and Alfred Stepan, eds. 1978. The Breakdown of
Democratic Regimes. Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins University Press.
Linz, Juan J., and Alfred Stepan. 1996. Problems of Democratic
Transition and Consolidation: Southern Europe, South
America and Post-Communist Europe. Baltimore and London: The Johns Hopkins University Press.
Ljiphart, Arend. 1984. “Proportionality by Non-PR Methods:
Ethnic Representation in Belgium, Cyprus, Lebanon, New
Zealand, West Gemany and Zimbabwe.” In A. Ljiphart and
B. Grofman, eds. Choosing an Electoral System: Issues
and Alternatives. New York: Praeger.
Lott, Juanita Tamayo. 1998. Asian Americans: From Racial Category to Multiple Identities. Walnut Creek, Calif., and London: Altamira Press.
Loury, Glenn. 2001. “Racial Justice and Affirmative Action Policies: The Superficial Morality of Colour-Blindness in the
United States.” Paper presented at the United Nations Research Institute for Social Development Conference on
Racism and Public Policy, 3 September, Durban. [http://www.
unrisd.org/80256B3C005BCCF9/httpNetITFrame?
ReadForm&parentunid=0A3B836D101A5A4580256B6D005

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

78931&parentdoctype=paper&netitpath=http://www.
unrisd.org/unpublished_/specialevents_/dloury/content.htm].
February 2004.
Lukes, Steven, and Christian Joppke. 1999. Multicultural Questions. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Luter, Kurt Richard, and Kris Deschouwer, eds. 1999. Party Elites
in Divided Societies: Political Parties in Consociational
Democracy. London: Routledge.
Luttmer, E. 1997. “Group Loyalty and the Taste for Redistribution.” Journal of Political Economy 109(3): 500–28.
Mabry, Tristan James. 1998. “Modernization, Nationalism and
Islam: An Examination of Ernest Gellner’s Writings on Muslim Society with Reference to Indonesia and Malaysia.”
Ethnic and Racial Studies 21(1): 64–88.
Macan-Markar, Marwaan. 2004. “Thailand: Amid Violence, Final
Bell Tolls for Islamic Schools.” Inter Press Service. 20 February.
Macedo, Stephen. 2000. Diversity and Distrust: Civic Education
in a Multicultural Democracy. Cambridge, Mass. and London: Harvard University Press.
Malhotra, Anshu. 2002. Gender, Caste and Religious Identities:
Restructuring Class in Colonial Punjab. Oxford and New
Delhi: Oxford University Press.
Mamdani, Mahmood. 2001. When Victims Become Killers:
Colonialism, Nativism, and the Genocide in Rwanda.
Princeton: Princeton University Press.
Mandela, Nelson. 1994. A Long Walk to Freedom. Boston: Little,
Brown and Co.
Mansbridge, Jane. 1998. Beyond Self-Interest. Chicago: Chigaco
University Press.
Marshall, Monty G., and Ted Robert Gurr. 2003. Peace and Conflict: A Global Survey of Armed Conflicts, Self-Determination
Movements and Democracy. Baltimore: Center for International Development and Conflict Management.
Marshall, Paul, ed. 2000. Religious Freedom in the World: A
Global Report on Freedom and Persecution. Nashville:
Broadman & Holman Publishers.
Martínez-Herrera, Enric. 2002. “Nationalist Extremism and Outcomes of State Policies in the Basque Country, 1979–2001.”
International Journal on Multicultural Societies 4(1): 1–22.
Marty, Martin E., and R. Scott Appleby, eds. 1991. Fundamentalisms
Observed. Chicago and London: University of Chicago Press.
———. 1993. Fundamentalisms and the State: Remaking Polities, Economies, and Militance. Chicago and London: University of Chicago Press.
———. 1995. Fundamentalisms Comprehended. Chicago and
London: University of Chicago Press.
Matiki, A. J. 2003. “Linguistic Exclusion and the Opinions of
Malawian Legislators.” Language Policy 2(2): 133–52.
Mayer, Jean-François. 2001. “Cults, Violence and Religious Terrorism: An International Perspective.” Studies in Conflict
and Terrorism 24(5): 361–76.
Mazrui, A. 1996. “Perspectives: The Muse of Modernity and the
Quest for Development.” In P. Altbach and S. Hassan, eds.
The Muse of Modernity: Essays on Culture as Development in Africa. Trenton: Africa World Press.
McPhail, Kathryn. 2000. “How Oil, Gas, and Mining Projects
Can Contribute to Development.” Finance and Development
37(4): 46–49.
McRae, Kenneth D., ed. 1974. Consociational Democracy: Political Accommodation in Segmented Societies. Toronto:
McClelland and Stewart.
Medrano, Juan Díez. 2002. “Thematic Introduction.” International
Journal on Multicultural Societies 4(1). [http://www.unesco.
org/most/vl4n1intro.htm]. February 2004.
Mehrotra, Santosh, and Enrique Delamonica. Forthcoming. Public
Spending for the Poor: Getting the Fundamentals Right.
In Social and Macroeconomic Policy. Oxford: Oxford University Press.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

Meyer, Thomas. 2001. Identity Mania. Fundamentalism and the
Politicization of Cultural Differences. London and New
York: Zed Books.
Mexico, Ministry of Health. 2004. “Mexico National Health Programme, 2001–2006.” Mexico City. [http://www.gob.mx/
wb2/egobierno/egob_Programa_Nacional_de_Salud ]. February 2004.
Mgbeoji, Ikechi. 2001. “Patents and Traditional Knowledge of the
Uses of Plants: Is a Communal Patent Regime Part of the Solution to the Scourge of Biopiracy?” Indiana Journal of
Global Legal Studies 9(1): 163–86.
Middle East Institute. 2003. “Algeria.” [http://www.mideasti.org/
countries/countries.php?name=algeria]. March 2004.
Migration Information Source. 2003. “Canada: Policy Legacies, New
Directions and Future Challenges.” Washington, DC.
[http://www.migrationinformation.org/Profiles/display.cfm
?ID=20]. February 2004.
Miguel. T. 1999. “Ethnic Diversity and School Funding in Kenya.”
Economics Working Papers Archive. Washington University,
St. Louis.
The Minorities at Risk (MAR) Project. 2003. MARGene: Minorities At Risk Data Generation and Management
Program. Center for International Development and Conflict Management, University of Maryland, Baltimore.
[http://www. cidcm.umd.edu/inscr/mar/data.htm]. February 2004.
Minority Rights Group International. 2003. “Indigenous Peoples
and Poverty: The Cases of Bolivia, Guatemala, Honduras and
Nicaragua.” Executive Summary. London. [http://www.
minorityrights.org/Dev/mrg_dev_title12_LatinAmerica/
mrg_dev_title12_LatinAmerica_8.htm]. February 2004.
Mishra, Pankaj. 2003. “Hurray for Bollywood.” The New York
Times. 28 February.
Modood, Tariq, and Pnina Werbner, eds. 1997. The Politics of
Multiculturalism in the New Europe: Racism, Identity and
Community. London: Zed Books.
Mody, Anjali. 2003. “It Is About Equality, Not Uniformity.” The
Hindu. 10 August.
Moeketsi, R. 1999. Discourse in a Multilingual and Multicultural
Courtroom: A Court Interpreter’s Guide. Pretoria: J. L.
Van Schaik.
Mokyr, Joel. 1983. Why Ireland Starved: A Quantitative and Analytical History of the Irish Economy, 1800–1850. London: Allen and Unwin.
Moody, R. 2000. “The Decade of Destruction: How the Mining Companies Betrayed their Promised Greening.” [http://www.mines
andcommunities.org/Company/decade.htm]. March 2004.
Moreau, Ron, Sami Yousafzai, and Zahid Hussain, with Michael
Hirsh. 2003. “Holy War 101.” Newsweek. 1 December.
Moya, Paula M. 2002. Learning From Experience: Minority
Identities, Multicultural Struggles. Berkeley: University of
California Press.
Mudde, Cas. 2000. The Ideology of the Extreme Right. Manchester: Manchester University Press.
Myerson, Roger B. 1991. “Proportional Representation, Approval
Voting and Coalitionally Straightforward Elections.” Discussion Paper 928. Center for Mathematical Studies in Economics and Management Science. Northwestern University,
Chicago. [http://www.kellogg.nwu.edu/research/math/dps/
928.pdf]. February 2004.
Nagel, Jack H. 2004. “Stormy Passage to a Safe Harbour? Proportional Representation in New Zealand.” In Henry Miller,
ed. Making Every Vote Count: Reassessing Canada’s
Electoral System. Peterborough, Ontario: Broadview Press.
NARAL Pro Choice. 2004. “Clinic Violence and Intimidation.”
[http://www.naral.org/facts/terrorism.cfm]. February 2004.
National Commission on Indigenous Peoples. 2004a. “Latest
News.” Manila. [http://www.ncip.gov.ph/news/newsdisplay.
php?articleid=66]. February 2004.

119

———. 2004b. “Republic Act 8371.” Manila. [http://www.ncip.
gov.ph/indexmain.php]. February 2004.
Ndoye, Mamadou. 2003. “Bilingualism, Language Policies and Educational Strategies in Africa.” International Institute for
Education Planning. United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organization, Paris.
Neville, Alexander. 2001. “Language, Education and Race Relations.” Paper presented at the United Nations Research Institute on Sustainable Development Conference on Racism
and Public Policy, 3 September, Durban. [http://www.
unrisd.org/unrisd/website/projects.nsf/(httpProjectsForResearchHome-en)/CE2B1BCD4B5F5D3A80256B4900530E39
?OpenDocument]]. February 2004.
The New York Times. 2003. “Just As Mexican Movies Become Chic Again, the Government Pulls Its Support.” 11
December.
Nicaragua Network. 2004. “CAFTA: A Shotgun Wedding?”
[http://www.nicanet.org/alerts/cafta_negociations_2.htm].
February 2004.
Niessen Jan. 2000. “Diversity and Cohesion: New Challenges for
the Integration of Immigrants and Minorities.” Council of Europe, Strasbourg.
Norchi, Charles H. 2000. “Indigenous Knowledge as Intellectual
Property.” Policy Sciences 33(3/4): 387–98.
Nussbaum, Martha. 1995. Women and Human Development:
The Capabilities Approach. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Nussbaum, Martha, and Jonathan Glover, eds. 1995. Women, Culture and Development. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Ocampo, José Antonio. 2001. “Rethinking the Development
Agenda.” Paper presented at the American Economic
Associations Annual Meeting, 5 January, New Orleans.
[http://www.undp.org/rblac/documents/poverty/
rethinking_dev_agenda.pdf]. February 2004.
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development). 2003. Trends in International Migration, Annual Report 2003 Edition. Paris: SOPEMI. [http://www.oecd.org/
document/17/0,2340,en_2649_33931_28703185_1_1_1_1,00.
html]. February 2004.
Office of Personnel Management. 2003. “2003 Federal Holidays.”
Washington, DC. [http://www.opm.gov/fedhol/2003.asp].
February 2004.
Okin, Susan Moller, ed. 1999. Is Multiculturalism Bad for
Women. Princeton: Princeton University Press.
O’Leary, Brendan. Forthcoming. “Multi-National Federalism, PowerSharing, Federacy and the Kurds of Iraq.” In Brendan O’Leary,
John McGarry, and Khaled Salih, eds. The Future of Iraq and
Kurdistan. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press.
Olwig, Karen Fog, and Kirsten Hastrup, eds. 1997. Siting Culture.
The Shifting Anthropological Object. New York: Routledge.
Opondo, Abiero. 2004. “Ethnicity: A Cause of Political Instability in Africa?” [http://129.194.252.80/catfiles/2731.pdf].
February 2004.
Ostergard Jr., Robert L., Matthew Tubin, and Jordan Altman. 2001.
“Stealing from the Past: Globalisation, Strategic Formation
and the Use of Indigenous Intellectual Property in the Biotechnology Industry.” Third World Quarterly 22(4): 643–56.
Ostrom, Elinor. 1990. Governing the Commons: The Evolution
of Institutions for Collective Action. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
———. 1998. The Comparative Study of Public Economies.
Memphis: P.K. Seidman Foundation.
Papademetriou, Demetrios. 2003. “Policy Considerations for Immigrant Integration.” Migration Policy Institute, Washington, DC. February 2004.
Parekh, Bhikhu. 2000. Rethinking Multiculturalism: Cultural Diversity and Political Theory. Basingstoke: Palgrave.
Patrinos, H., and E. Velez. 1996. “Costs and Benefits of Bilingual
Education in Guatemala: A Partial Analysis.” Human Capital

120

Development Working Paper 74. World Bank, Washington, DC.
Pattanaik, Prasanta. 1998. “Cultural Indicators of Well-Being:
Some Conceptual Issues.” In World Culture Report: Culture, Creativity and Markets. Paris: UNESCO Publishing.
Patterson, Thomas C., and Ida Susser, eds. 2001. Cultural Diversity
in the United States: A Critical Reader. Oxford: Blackwell.
Pehdazur, Ami. 2001. “Struggling with the Challenges of RightWing Extremism and Terrorism within Democratic Boundaries: A Comparative Analysis.” Studies in Conflict and
Terrorism 24(5): 339–59.
The Pew Research Center. 2003. “Globalization With Few Discontents.” Washington, DC. [http://www.globalpolicy.org/
globaliz/cultural/2003/0603globalopinion.htm]. February
2004.
Phillips, Anne. 2001. “Multiculturalism, Universalism and the
Claims of Democracy.” Programme Paper Number 7. Democracy, Governance and Human Rights. United Nations Research Institute for Social Development, Geneva.
[http://www.unrisd.org/unrisd/website/projects.nsf/
(httpProjectsForResearchHome-en)/CE2B1BCD4B5F5D3A
80256B4900530E39?OpenDocument]. February 2004.
Platteau, Jean-philippe. 2000. Institutions, Social Norms and
Economic Development. Amsterdam: Harwood Academic
Publishers.
The Polity IV Project. 2003. Political Regime Characteristics
and Transitions, 1800–2002. Center for International Development and Conflict Management, University of Maryland,
Baltimore. [http://www.cidcm.umd.edu/inscr/polity]. February 2004.
Ponzio, Richard. 2004. “Solomon Island’s Ethnic Difference Not
the Cause of Conflict.” United Nations Development Programme, Solomon Islands, Honiara.
Prah, Kwesi Kwaa. 2000. African Languages for the Mass Education of Africans. Cape Town: CASAS.
Prashad, Vijay. 2001. “Cataracts of Silence: Race on the Edge of
Indian Thought.” Paper presented at the United Nations
Research Institute for Social Development Conference on
Racism and Public Policy, 3 September, Durban. [http://www.
unrisd.org/unrisd/website/projects.nsf/(httpProjectsFor
ResearchHome-en)/CE2B1BCD4B5F5D3A80256B4900530E39
?OpenDocument]. February 2004.
Preis, Ann-Belinda. 2004. “Culture—Paradigm Shift in Anthropology.” United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, Paris.
Premdas, Ralph. 2003. “Ethnic Conflict, Inequality and Public Sector Governance in A Multi-Ethnic State: The Case of Trinidad
and Tobago.” Ethnic Conflict, Inequality and Public Sector
Governance Country Studies. United Nations Research Institute for Social Development, Geneva.
Psacharopoulos, G., and H. Patrinos. 1994. “Indigenous People
and Poverty in Latin America.” In G. Psacharopoulos and
H. Patrinos, eds. Indigenous People and Poverty in Latin
America. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Public Citizen. 2004. “Global Trade Watch: Promoting Democracy by Challenging Corporate Globalization.” [http://www.
citizen.org/trade]. March 2004.
Putnam, Robert, R. Leonardi, and R. Y. Nanetti. 1993. Making
Democracy Work: Civic Traditions in Modern Italy.
Princeton: Princeton University Press.
Putnam, Robert. 1993. “The Prosperous Community: Social Capital and Public Life.” American Prospect 13: 35–42.
RAND Corporation. 2004. Correspondence on Terrorist Groups
1996–2003. March. Arlington.
Ranger, T. 1983. “The Invention of Tradition in Colonial Africa.”
In E. Hobsbawm and T. Ranger, eds. The Invention of
Tradition. Cambridge: Canto.
Reilly, Benjamin. 2002. “Internal Conflict and Regional Security
in Asia and the Pacific.” Pacific Review 14 (1): 10–11.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

Reiss, Timothy. 2002. Against Autonomy: Global Dialectics of
Cultural Exchange. Stanford: Stanford University Press.
Renshon, Stanley A., ed. 2001. One America? Political Leadership, National Identity and the Dilemmas of Diversity.
Washington, DC: Georgetown University Press.
Requejo, Ferran. 2001. “Federalism and the Quality of Democracy
in Plurinational Contexts: Present Shortcomings and Possible
Improvements.” Paper presented at the European Consortium
for Political Science Research Conference, 6 April, Grenoble,
France. [http://www.essex.ac.uk/ecpr/events/jointsessions/
paperarchive/grenoble/ws4/requejo.pdf]. February 2004.
Richey, W. 2003. “Affirmative Action’s Evaluation: How the Debate has Changed Since the 1970s.” The Christian Science
Monitor. 28 March.
Riding, Alan. 2003. “Filmmakers Seek Protection from U.S. Dominance.” The New York Times. 5 February.
Roberts, Adam. 2002. “Counter-Terrorism. Armed Force and the
Laws of War.” Survival 44(1): 7–32.
Rodgers, Gerry, Charles Gore, and Jose B. Figueirdo, eds. 1995.
Social Exclusion: Rhetoric, Reality, Responses. Geneva: International Institute for Labour Studies.
Rodwin, Victor G. 2002. “World Cities Project.” New York University, International Longevity Center, New York [http://
www.nyu.edu/projects/rodwin/world_cp.htm]. March 2004.
Rosaldo, Renato. 1989. Culture and Truth: The Remaking of Social Analysis. Boston: Beacon Press.
Rotar’, Igor’. 2002. “Under the Green Banner: Islamic Radicals in
Russia and the Former Soviet Union.” Religion, State & Society 30(2): 89–153.
Rotimi, Suberu. 2001. Federalism and Ethnic Conflict in Nigeria. Washington, DC: United States Institute of Peace
Press.
Rudolph, Susanne H. 2001. “Living With Difference in India:
Legal Pluralism and Legal Universalism in Historical Context.” In Gerald James Larson, ed. Religion and Personal
Law in Secular India: A Call to Judgment. Bloomington
and Indianapolis: Indiana University Press.
Runciman, W. G. 1966. Relative Deprivation and Social Justice.
London: Routledge.
Russell, Cheryl. 2002. Racial and Ethnic Diversity: Asians,
Blacks, Hispanics, Native Americans and Whites. Ithaca:
New Strategist Publications.
Rutter, Terri L. 1998. “Study Finds ‘Life Gap’ in the United States.”
Harvard Public Health Review Fall 1998. [http://www.hsph.
harvard.edu/review/life_gap.shtml]. February 2004.
Salomon, Margot E., and Arjun Sengupta. 2003. “The Right to Development: Obligations of States and the Rights of Minorities and Indigenous Peoples.” Minority Rights Group
International, London. [http://www.minorityrights.org/].
February 2004.
Sandel, Michael. 1998. Liberalism and the Limits of Justice.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Sands, David R. 2003. “Effort to Rein in Madrassas Begun; Educator Predicts 10 Years of Work.” The Washington Times.
7 November.
Sarat, Austin, and Jonathan Simon, eds. 2003. Cultural Analysis,
Cultural Studies and the Law: Moving Beyond Legal Realism. Durham: Duke University Press.
SATP (South Asia Terrorism Portal). 2004. “Sectarian Violence
in Pakistan.” [http://www.satp.org/satporgtp/countries/
pakistan/database/sect-killing.htm]. March 2004.
Schacher, Ayelet. 2001. Multicultural Jurisdictions: Cultural
Differences and Women’s Rights. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Schoorl, J. J., and Friesen, W. 2000. “Restoration of Law and
Order by Regional Intervention Force Allows for the Return
of the Displaced.” [http://www.db.idpproject.org/Sites/
idpSurvey.nsf/wViewSingleEnv/Solomon+IslandsProfile+
Summary]. February 2004.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

Schultz, Paul T., and Germano Mwabo. 1998. “Labor Unions and
the Distribution of Wages and Employment in South Africa.”
Industrial and Labor Relations Review 51(4).
Schulze, Karl. 1999. The Constitution, Multiculturalism and
Our Changing Form of Government: A Guide for the
Future. London: Minerva.
Schwenken, Helen. 2003. “RESPECT for All: The Political SelfOrganization of Female Migrant Domestic Workers in the
European Union.” Refuge 21(3): 45–52. [http://www
.uni-kassel.de/fb5/globalisation/docs/diss/schwenken_refuge
_2003.pdf]. February 2004.
Scott, Rachel. 2003. “An ‘Official’ Islamic Response to the Egyptian Al-Jihad Movement.” Journal of Political Ideologies
8(1): 39–61.
Sen, Amartya. 1984. Resources, Values and Development. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press.
———. 1999. Reason Before Identity. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
———. 2001. “Other People.” The New Republic. 18 December.
———. 2002. “Civilizational Imprisonments: How to Misunderstand
Everybody in the World.” The New Republic. 10 June.
———. 2003. “Democracy and its Global Roots.” The New Republic. 6 October.
———. 2004a. “Cultural Freedom and Human Development.”
———. 2004b. “How Does Culture Matter?” In Vijayendra Rao
and Michael Walton, eds. Culture and Public Action: A
Cross-Disciplinary Dialogue on Development Policy. Stanford, Calif.: Stanford University Press.
———. 2004c. “Elements of a Theory of Human Rights.” Philosophy and Public Affairs 32(Fall).
———. Forthcoming. Identity and Innocence. New York: Norton.
Sepúlveda, Magdalena M. 2003. The Nature of Obligations
Under the International Covenant on Economic, Social and
Cultural Rights. Antwerpen and Oxford: Intersentia.
Shain, Yossi, and Aharon Barth. 2003. “Diasporas and International Relations Theory.” International Organization 57(3):
449–79.
Shain, Yossi. 1994–95. “Ethnic Diasporas and U.S. Foreign Policy.” Political Science Quarterly 109(5): 811–41.
Sheffer, Gabriel. 1986. “A New Field of Study: Modern Diasporas in International Politics.” In Gabriel Sheffer, ed. Modern Diaspora in International Politics. New York: St.
Martin’s Press.
———. 1993. “Ethnic Diasporas: A Threat to their Hosts?” In
Myron Weiner, ed. International Migration and Security.
Boulder: Westview Press.
SIL International. 2004a. Ethnologue: Languages of the World.
Houston.
———. 2004b. “HDR2004 Comments and Contributions from
SIL International.” Washington, DC and Houston.
[http://www.sil.org/sildc/index.htm]. February 2004.
Silver, Hilary. 1995. “Reconceptualizing Social Disadvantage:
Three Paradigms of Social Exclusion.” In Gerry Rodgers,
Charles Gore, and Jose B. Figueirdo, eds. Social Exclusion;
Rhetoric, Reality, Responses. Geneva: International Institute for Labour Studies.
Sivan, Emmanuel. 2003. “The Clash Within Islam.” Survival 45(1):
25–44.
Smith, Adam. 1976 [1776]. An Inquiry into the Nature and
Causes of the Wealth of Nations, eds. Campbell, R. H. and
A. S. Skinner. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Smith, Anthony. 1986. The Ethnic Origin of Nations. Oxford:
Blackwell.
———. 1991. “The Nation: Invented, Imagined, Reconstructed.”
Millennium Journal of International Studies 20: 353–68.
Snodgrass, Donald R. 1995. “Successful Economic Development in
a Multi-ethnic Society: The Malaysian Case.” The Harvard Institute for International Development, Cambridge, Mass. [http://
www.hiid.harvard.edu/pub/pdfs/503.pdf]. February 2004.

121

Snyder, Jack. 2000. From Voting to Violence: Democraticization
and Nationalist Conflict. New York: W.W. Norton.
South Africa, Ministry of Labour. 2004. “South Africa Employment Equity Act.” No. 55, Section 20(5). Pretoria. [http://www
.labour.gov.za/docs/legislation/eea/]. February 2004.
South Asia Monitor. 2003. “Musharraf Bans Resurfacing Militant
Groups, Orders Crackdown.” [http://www.southasiamonitor
.org/pak/2003/nov/16head4.htm]. April 2004.
SSS (Swedish Security Service). 2002. “Offences Related to National
Internal Security.” Stockholm. [http://www.sakerhetspolisen
.se/Publikationer/brott_2002.pdf]. January 2004.
Stalker, Peter. 2002. “Migration Trends and Migration Policy in
Europe.” International Migration 40(5): 151–79.
Stamatopoulou, Elsa. 2002. “Cultural Politics or Cultural Rights:
UN Human Rights Responses.” Office of the High Commissioner on Human Rights, New York.
Statistics Canada. 2004. Proportion of Foreign-Born Population,
Census Metropolitan Areas. Ottawa. [http://www.statcan
.ca/english/Pgdb/demo46b.htm]. February 2004.
Statistics Sweden. 2004. Population Statistics. Stockholm. [http://www
.scb.se/templates/Product____25799.asp]. February 2004.
Stepan, Alfred. 2001. Arguing Comparative Politics. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Stepan, Alfred, and Graeme Robertson. 2003. “An ‘Arab’ More than
a ‘Muslim’ Electoral Gap.” Journal of Democracy 14(3): 30–44.
Stepanov, Valery. 2004. “Russian Experience in the North Indigenous Statistics.” PFII/2004/WS.1/5. Department of Social and Economic Affairs. United Nations, New York.
Stern, Jessica. 2000. “Pakistan’s Jihad Culture.” Foreign Affairs
79(6): 115–26.
———. 2003. “The Protean Enemy.” Foreign Affairs 82(4): 27–40.
Stewart, Frances. 2002. “Horizontal Inequalities: A Neglected Dimension of Development.” Queen Elizabeth House Working Paper S81, Oxford. [http://www2.qeh.ox.ac.uk/
research/wpaction.html?jor_id=239]. February 2004.
———. 2003. “Conflict and the Millennium Development Goals.”
Background Paper for Human Development Report 2003.
United Nations Development Programme, New York.
Stiefel, Leanna, Amy Ellen Schwartz, and Dylan Conger. 2003. “Language Proficiency and Home Languages of Students in New
York City Elementary and Middle Schools.” New York University, Taub Urban Research Center, New York. [http://urban
.nyu.edu/education/nyclanguage.pdf]. February 2004.
Subirats, Joan. 2003. “Nations Without States in Europe.” Paper presented at the King Juan Carlos I of Spain Center at New York
University, 8 April, New York. [http://www.nyu.edu/pages/
kjc/lectures/nations_without_states3.doc]. February 2004.
Susning.nu. 2004. “Ny demokrati.” [http://susning.nu/Ny_
demokrati]. March 2004.
Swedish Election Authority. 2002. “Resultat Övriga Riksdagsval—
en Komplettering.” [http://www.val.se/utils/pdf/tillagg_
ovriga.pdf]. March 2004.
Symonds, Peter. 2003. “The Political Origins and Outlook of Jemaah Islamiyah, Part I.” [http://www.wsws.org/articles/
2003/nov2003/jis1-n12.shtml]. March 2004.
Tauli-Corpus, Victoria. 2004. “Land Rights in the Philippines.” Indigenous Peoples’ International Centre for Policy Research
and Education (Tebtebba), Baguio City, Philippines.
Taylor, Charles. 1992. “The Politics of Recognition.” In Multiculturalism and the “Politics of Recognition.” Princeton:
Princeton University Press.
Tebtebba and Forest Peoples Programme. 2003. Extracting
Promises: Indigenous Peoples, Extractive Industries &
the World Bank. Baguio City, Philippines.
Tebtebba and International Forum on Globalization. 2003.
“Globalization: Effects on Indigenous Peoples.” [http://www.
tebtebba.org/]. March 2004.
Temu, A. 2000. “The Development of National Language: A Survey of Kiswahili in Tanzania.” In Kwesi Kwaa Prah, ed. Between

122

Distinction and Extinction: The Harmonization and Standardization of African Languages. Cape Town: CASAS.
Testas, Abdelaziz. 2002. “The Roots of Algeria’s Religious and Ethnic Violence.” Studies in Conflict and Terrorism 25(3): 161–83.
Tetley, William Q. C. 1999. “Mixed Jurisdictions: Common Law
Versus Civil Law (Codified and Uncodified).” International
Institute for the Unification of Private Law, Rome.
[http://www.unidroit.org/english/publications/review/
articles/1999–3.htm]. February 2004.
Third World Network. 2003. “More than 200 Organizations from
35 Nations Challenge US Patent on Neem.” [http://www.
twnside.org.sg/title/neem-ch.htm]. February 2004.
Thompson, Charles D. 2001. Maya Identities and the Violence
of Place: Borders Bleed. Aldershot: Ashgate.
Throsby, David. 1999. “Cultural Capital.” Journal of Cultural Economics 23: 3–12.
Townsend, Peter. 1979. Poverty in the United Kingdom. London: Penguin Books.
Tran, Luan-Vu N. 2000. Human Rights and Federalism: A
Comparative Study on Freedom, Democracy and Cultural
Diversity. The Hague and London: Martinus Nijhoff.
Tremlett, Giles. 2002. “Death and Dissent as Algeria Goes to the
Polls.” The Guardian. 31 May.
Turton, D. 1997. “War and Ethnicity: Global Connections and
Local Violence in North East Africa and Former Yugoslavia.”
Oxford Development Studies 25: 77–94.
UN (United Nations). 1994. “General Comment No. 23 (50) (Article 27).” United Nations Document CCPR/C/21/
Rev.1/Add.5. Adopted at the 50th Session of the Human
Rights Committee, 6 April, New York.
———. 2000a. “Millennium Declaration.” A/RES/55/2, 18 September. New York. [http://www.un.org/millennium/
declaration/ares552e.pdf]. March 2003.
———. 2000b. “Replacement Migration: Is It a Solution to Declining
and Ageing Populations?” Department of Economic
and Social Affairs, Population Division. New York.
[http://www.un.org/esa/population/publications/migration/
migration.htm]. March 2004.
———. 2002a. “International Migration Report 2002.” Department
of Economic and Social Affairs, Population Division. New
York. [http://www.un.org/esa/population/publications/
ittmig2002/2002ITTMIGTEXT22–11.pdf]. February 2004.
———. 2002b. “International Migration Report Website.”
[http://www.un.org/esa/population/publications/ittmig2002/
ittmigrep2002.htm ]. March 2004.
———. 2003a. “Trends in Total Migrant Stock by Sex. 1960–2000.”
2003 Revision to the International Migration Report 2002.
Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Population Division. New York.
———. 2003b. World Population Prospects 1950–2050: The
2002 Revision. Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Population Division, New York
———. 2004. “Data Collection Pertaining to Indigenous Peoples:
Issues and Challenges.” PFII/2004/WA.1/13. Department of
Economic and Social Affairs. New York.
UNCTAD (United Nations Conference on Trade and Development). 1999. World Investment Report. Geneva.
UNDP (United Nations Development Programme). 1999. Human
Development Report 1999: Globalization with a Human
Face. New York: Oxford University Press.
———. 2000a. Human Development Report 2000: Human
Rights and Human Development. New York: Oxford University Press.
———. 2000b. “Namibia Human Development Report 2000/2001:
Gender and Violence in Namibia.” Windhoek.
———. 2000c. “South Africa Human Development Report 2000:
Transformation for Human Development.” Pretoria.
[http://www.undp.org.za/sahdr2000/sahdr20002.html]. February 2004.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

———. 2002a. Human Development Report 2002: Deepening
Democracy in a Fragmented World. New York: Oxford University Press.
———. 2002b. “Situacíon Del Desarrollo Human En Las Comarcas Indígenas.” Panama City.
———. 2003a. Arab Human Development Report 2003: Building a Knowledge Society. Amman.
———. 2003b. Human Development Report 2003: Millennium
Development Goals: A Compact Among Nations to End
Human Poverty. New York: Oxford University Press.
———. 2003c. “Indonesia.” Crisis Prevention and Recovery Unit.
Jakarta.
———. 2003d. “Report of the United Nations Development Programme to the 59th Session of the United Nations Commission
on Human Rights.” E/CN.4/2003/128. New York. [http://www
.unhchr.ch/huridocda/huridoca.nsf]. February 2004.
———. 2003e. “Roma Human Development Report: The Roma in
Central and Eastern Europe: Avoiding the Dependency
Trap.” Bratislava. [http://www.roma.undp.sk]. February
2004.
———. 2004a. “About Indigenous Peoples: A Definition.”
New York. [http://www.undp.org/csopp/cso/NewFiles/
paboutdef.html]. February 2004.
———. 2004b. “UNDP and Indigenous Peoples: A Policy of Engagement.” Civil Society Organization, Bureau for Resources
and Strategic Partnerships. New York. [http://www.undp.org/
cso/policies.html]. February 2004.
UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization). 1998. World Culture Report: Culture, Creativity and Markets. Paris: UNESCO Publishing.
———. 2000a. “A Survey on National Cinematography.” Culture
Sector, Division of Creativity, Cultural Industries and Copyright. Paris.
———. 2000b. “Study of International Flows of Cultural Goods
between 1980 and 1998.” Paris.
———. 2000c. World Culture Report: Cultural Diversity, Conflict and Pluralism. Paris: UNESCO Publishing.
———. 2001. “Synthesis of Reports by Member States in the Context of the Permanent System of Reporting on Education for
Peace, Human Rights, Democracy, International Understanding and Tolerance, General Conference 31st Session.”
31 C/INF.5. Paris.
———. 2002. “Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity.” Cultural Diversity Series No. 1. Paris.
———. 2003a. “Desirability of Drawing Up an International
Standard-Setting Instrument on Cultural Diversity, General
Conference 32nd Session.” 32 C/52. Paris.
———-. 2003b. “Language Vitality and Endangerment.” Paper presented at the “International Expert Meeting on the UNESCO Programme: Safeguarding Languages,” 10 March,
Paris. [http://portal.unesco.org/culture/en/ev.php@URL_
ID=9105&URL_DO=DO_TOPIC&URL_SECTION=201
.html]. February 2004.
———. 2003c. “Preliminary Draft International Convention for the
Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage, General
Conference 32nd Session.” 32 C/26. Paris.
———. 2004a. “Culture, Trade and Globalization.” Paris.
[http://www.unesco.org/culture/industries/trade/index
.shtml]. March 2004.
———. 2004b. “What Was the Draft Multilateral Agreement on Investments (MAI)?” [http://www.unesco.org/culture/industries
/trade/html_eng/question20.shtml#20]. March 2004.
UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization)–UIS (Institute of Statistics). 2001. “Fast Facts: Did
You Know? International Trade in Cultural Goods.” Paris.
[http://www.uis.unesco.org]. February 2004.
UN HABITAT (United Nations Human Settlements Programme).
Forthcoming. State of the World’s Cities Report 2004. Draft
chapter on transnational migration. Nairobi.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

UNICEF (United Nations Children’s Fund). 2001. State of the
World’s Children 2001. New York.
———. 2004. “Ensuring the Rights of Indigenous Children.” Innocenti Digest 11. Innocenti Research Center, Rome.
[http://www.unicef.org/irc]. February 2004.
United Nations Association of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
2004. “Help For Brazil’s Indians.” London and New York.
[http://www.una-uk.org/Environment/brazil2.html]. February 2004.
U.S. Census Bureau. 2004a. “Adding Diversity From Abroad:
The Foreign-Born Population 2000.” Washington, DC.
[http://www.census.gov/population/pop-profile/2000/
chap17.pdf]. February 2004.
———. 2004b. “United States Census 2000.” [http://www.census
.gov/]. March 2004.
U.S. Department of Justice. 2001. “Hate Crime: The Violence of
Intolerance.” [http://www.usdoj.gov/crs/ pubs/htecrm.htm].
April 2004.
U.S. Department of Labor. 2004. “Latest Numbers.” Bureau of
Labor Statistics. [http://www.bls.gov/]. March 2004.
Valdés, Julio Carranza. 2002. “Cultural Development Indicators:
Towards a New Dimension of Human Well-Being.” Paper
presented at the International Symposium for Cultural Statistics, 21 October, Montréal. [http://www.colloque2002
symposium.gouv.qc.ca/PDF/Carranza_paper_Symposium.pdf].
February 2004.
Van Beetz, Freek. 2000. “The Legal Instruments Required in the
Strategy for a Successful Integration Policy in the Netherlands.” Paper presented at the Strategies for Implementing
Integration Policies Conference, 4 May, Prague.
Van der Westhuizen, Janis. 2002. Adapting to Globalization:
Malaysia, South Africa, and the Challenges of Ethnic Redistribution with Growth. Westport: Praeger.
Van Holsteyn, Joop J. M. 2003. “Beating a Dead Horse? The Dutch
State and the Defense of Democracy Against Right-Wing Extremism.” Paper presented at the European Consortium for
Political Research Conference, 28 March, Edinburgh.
[http://www.essex.ac.uk/ecpr/events/jointsessions/
paperarchive/edinburgh.asp?section=4]. February 2004.
Vogel, H. L. 2001. Entertainment Industry Economics: A Guide for
Financial Analysis. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Vuchelen, Jef. 2003. “Electoral Systems and the Effects of Political Events on the Stock Market: The Belgian Case.” Economics and Politics 15(1): 85–102.
Wahlbeck, Osten. 2002. “The Concept of Diaspora as an Analytical Tool in the Study of Refugee Communities.” Journal of
Ethnic and Migration Studies 28(2): 221–38.
Walden, Bello. 2000. “2000: A Year of Global Protest Against
Globalization.” New York. [http://www.globalpolicy.org].
February 2004.
Wanandi, Jusuf. 2002. “Islam in Indonesia: Its History, Development
and Future Challenges.” Asia-Pacific Review 9(2): 104–12.
Wanner, Philippe. 2002. “Migration Trends in Europe.” European
Population Papers Series No. 7. European Population Committee. Council of Europe, Strasbourg. [http://www.coe
.int/t/e/social_cohesion/population/No_7_Migration_trends_
in_Europe.pdf]. February 2004.
Watts, Ronald L. 1998. “Federal Systems and Accommodation of
Distinct Groups: A Comparative Survey of International
Arrangements for Aboriginal Peoples.” Institute of Intergovernmental Relations. Queen’s University, Kingston, Ontario.
[http://www.iigr.ca/pdf/publications/146_Federal_Systems_
and_Acco.pdf]. February 2004.
———. 1999. Comparing Federal Systems. Montreal and Kingston:
McGill-Queen’s University Press.
———-. 2002. “The Relevance Today of the Federal Idea.” Paper
presented at the International Conference on Federalism,
27 August, St. Gallen. [http://www.forumfed.org/federalism/
Watts.asp?lang=en]. February 2004.

123

Weatherall, Kimberlee. 2001. “Culture, Autonomy and Djulibinyamurr: Individual and Community in the Construction of Rights
to Traditional Designs.” Modern Law Review 64(2): 215–42.
Weber, Max. 1976 [1930]. The Protestant Ethics and the Spirit
of Capitalism, republished with a new introduction by Anthony Giddens. London: Allen and Unwin.
Wedgwood, Ruth. 2002. “Al Qaeda, Terrorism, and Military Commissions.” The American Journal of International Law
96(2): 328–37.
WHO (World Health Organization). 2001. “International Decade
of the World’s Indigenous People.” Report by the Secretariat.
Geneva. [http://www.who.int/gb/EB_WHA/PDF/WHA54/
ea5433.pdf]. February 2004.
Widfeldt, Anders. 2001. “Responses to the Extreme Right in Sweden: The Diversified Approach.” Working Paper 10. Keele
European Parties Research Unit, Keele. [http://www.keele
.ac.uk/depts/spire/Working%20Papers/KEPRU/KEPRU%20
Working%20papers.htm]. February 2004.
———. 2004. Correspondence on the vote shares of European extreme right parties between 1990 and 2003. February.
Aberdeen.
Wikipedia. 2004. “Religious Persecution.” Tampa. [http://en.
wikipedia.org/wiki/Religious_persecution]. February 2004.
Willett, Cynthia, ed. 1998. Theorizing Multiculturalism: A
Guide to the Current Debate. Cambridge, Mass. and Oxford: Blackwell.
WIPO (World Intellectual Property Organization). 2003a. “Composite Study on the Protection of Traditional Knowledge.”
WIPO/GRTKF/IC/5/8. Intergovernmental Committee on Intellectual Property and Genetic Resources, Traditional Knowledge and Folklore. Geneva.
———. 2003b. “Consolidated Analysis of the Legal Protection of
Traditional Cultural Expressions.” WIPO/GRTKF/IC/5/3.
Intergovernmental Committee on Intellectual Property and Genetic Resources, Traditional Knowledge and Folklore. Geneva.
———. 2003c. “Information on National Experiences with the
Intellectual Property Protection of Traditional Knowledge.”
WIPO/GRTKF/IC/5/INF/2. Intergovernmental Committee
on Intellectual Property and Genetic Resources, Traditional
Knowledge and Folklore. Geneva.
———. 2003d. “Intergovernmental Committee on Intellectual
Property and Genetic Resources, Traditional Knowledge and

124

Folklore Fifth Session Report.” WIPO/GRTKF/IC/5/15.
Intergovernmental Committee on Intellectual Property and
Genetic Resources, Traditional Knowledge and Folklore.
Geneva.
———. 2004. “Revised Version of Traditional Knowledge: Policy
and Legal Options.” WIPO/GRTKF/IC/6/4 Rev. Intergovernmental Committee on Intellectual Property and Genetic Resources, Traditional Knowledge and Folklore.
Geneva.
World Bank. 2002. World Development Report 2003: Sustainable Development in a Dynamic World. New York: Oxford University Press.
———. 2003. World Development Indicators 2003. Washington,
DC.
———. 2004. “Striking a Better Balance: Extractive Industries Review Final Report.” Washington, DC.
World Commission on Culture and Development. 1995. “Our
Creative Diversity: Report of the World Commission on Culture and Development.” Paris.
World Values Survey. 2004. “World Values Survey.”
[http://www.worldvaluessurvey.org]. February 2004.
Wright, Sue. 2001. “Language and Power: Background to the
Debate on Linguistic Rights.” International Journal on Multicultural Societies 3(1). [http://www.unesco.org/most/
l3n1wri.htm]. February 2004.
Young, Crawford, ed. 1999. The Accommodation of Cultural Diversity: Case Studies. Basingstoke: MacMillan Press.
Young, Iris Marion. 2000. Inclusion and Democracy. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Zelkina, Anna. 1999. “Islam and Security in the New States of Central Asia: How Genuine is the Islamic Threat?” Religion, State
& Society 27(3/4): 355–72.
Zhao, Susheng. 1998. “A State-Led Nationalism: The Patriotic
Education Campaign in Post-Tiananmen China.” Communist and Post-Communist Studies 31(3): 287–302.
Zolberg, Aristide. 2001. “Introduction.” In Aristide Zolberg and
Peter Benda, eds. Global Migrants, Global Refugees. New
York: Berghahn Books.
Zorzi, Christine. 2002. “The ‘Irrecognition’ of Aboriginal Customary
Law.” Lawyers Information Network, Melbourne.
[http://www.link.asn.au/downloads/papers/indeginous/
p_in_09.pdf]. February 2004.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT
INDICATORS

Statistical feature 1: The state of human development

127

Statistical feature 2: Note to table 1: About this year’s human development index

137

INDICATOR TABLES
I. MONITORING HUMAN DEVELOPMENT: ENLARGING PEOPLE’S CHOICES . . .
1 Human development index

139

2 Human development index trends

143

3 Human and income poverty: developing countries

147

4 Human and income poverty: OECD, Central & Eastern Europe & CIS

150

II. . . . TO LEAD A LONG AND HEALTHY LIFE . . .
5 Demographic trends

152

6 Commitment to health: resources, access and services
7 Water, sanitation and nutritional status
8 Leading global health crises and risks
9 Survival: progress and setbacks

156

160
164

168

III. . . . TO ACQUIRE KNOWLEDGE . . .
10 Commitment to education: public spending
11 Literacy and enrolment

172

176

12 Technology: diffusion and creation

180

IV. . . . TO HAVE ACCESS TO THE RESOURCES NEEDED FOR A DECENT STANDARD OF LIVING . . .
13 Economic performance

184

14 Inequality in income or consumption
15 Structure of trade

188

192

16 Rich country responsibilities: aid

196

17 Rich country responsibilities: debt relief and trade
18 Flows of aid, private capital and debt
19 Priorities in public spending

198

202

20 Unemployment in OECD countries

206

197

V. . . . WHILE PRESERVING IT FOR FUTURE GENERATIONS . . .
21 Energy and the environment

207

VI. . . . PROTECTING PERSONAL SECURITY . . .
22 Refugees and armaments
23 Victims of crime

211

215

VII. . . . AND ACHIEVING EQUALITY FOR ALL WOMEN AND MEN
24 Gender-related development index

217

25 Gender empowerment measure

221

26 Gender inequality in education

225

27 Gender inequality in economic activity
28 Gender, work burden and time allocation
29 Women’s political participation

229
233

234

VIII. HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS INSTRUMENTS
30 Status of major international human rights instruments
31 Status of fundamental labour rights conventions

242

32 Human development indices: a regional perspective
33 Basic indicators for other UN member countries

Note on statistics in the Human Development Report

238

246

250

251

Technical note 1: Calculating the human development indices

258

Technical note 2: Identifying top priority and high priority countries for the Millennium Development Goals
Definitions of statistical terms
Statistical references

277

Classification of countries
Index to indicators

283

279

268

265

Statistical feature 1 The state of human development
People are the real wealth of nations. Indeed,
the basic purpose of development is to enlarge
human freedoms. The process of development
can expand human capabilities by expanding
the choices that people have to live full and creative lives. And people are both the beneficiaries of such development and the agents of the
progress and change that bring it about. This
process must benefit all individuals equitably
and build on the participation of each of them.
This approach to development—human
development—has been advocated by every
Human Development Report since the first in
1990.
The range of capabilities that individuals
can have, and the choices that can help to
expand them, are potentially infinite and vary
by individual. However, public policy is about
setting priorities, and two criteria are helpful
in identifying the most important capabilities
for assessing meaningful global progress in
achieving human well-being, the purpose of this
Report. First, these capabilities must be universally valued. Second, they must be basic to
life, in the sense that their absence would foreclose many other choices. For these reasons
Human Development Report focuses on four
important capabilities: to lead a long and
healthy life, to be knowledgeable, to have access
to the resources needed for a decent standard
of living and to participate in the life of the
community.

The ideas behind this development paradigm are not new—they are at least as old as
Aristotle. Aristotle argued that “wealth is evidently not the good we are seeking; for it is
merely useful and for the sake of something
else.” Immanuel Kant similarly asserted that
human beings should be seen as ends in themselves, rather than as a means to other ends.
And parallel ideas are reflected in the writings
of Adam Smith, Robert Malthus and John Stuart Mill—to name just a few.
But for a long time development policy
debates seemed to forget this simple, yet profound truth. Caught up with the rise and fall of
national incomes, economists often lost sight of
the real end of development—people’s wellbeing. Economic growth is merely a means—
albeit an important one—for achieving this end.
Measuring human development
It is easier to measure national incomes than
human development. And many economists
would argue that national income is a good
indicator of human well-being. While there is
evidently a strong relationship, since economic
growth is an important means to human development, human outcomes do not depend on
economic growth and levels of national income
alone. They also depend on how these resources
are used—whether for developing weapons or
producing food, building palaces or providing
clean water. And human outcomes such as

democratic participation in decision-making
or equal rights for men and women do not
depend on incomes. For these reasons the
Report presents an extensive set of indicators
(33 tables and almost 200 indicators) on important human outcomes achieved in countries
around the world, such as life expectancy at
birth or under-five mortality rates, which reflect
the capability to survive, or literacy rates, which
reflect the capability to learn. They also include
indicators on important means for achieving
these capabilities, such as access to clean water,
and on equity in achievement, such as the gaps
between men and women in schooling or political participation.
While this rich array of indicators provides
measures for evaluating progress in human
development in its many dimensions, policymakers also need a summary measure to evaluate progress, particularly one that focuses
more sharply on human well-being than on
income. For this purpose Human Development Reports have since their inception published the human development index, later
complemented by indices looking specifically
at gender (gender-related development index
and gender empowerment measure) and
poverty (human poverty index; table 1). These
indices give an overview of some basic dimensions of human development, but they must
be complemented by looking at their underlying data and other indicators.

TABLE 1

HDI, HPI-1, HPI-2, GDI—same components, different measurements
Index

Longevity

Knowledge

Decent standard of living

Participation or exclusion

Human
development
index (HDI)

Life expectancy at birth

• Adult literacy rate
• Combined gross enrolment ratio
for primary, secondary and tertiary
schools

GDP per capita (PPP US$)

—

Human poverty
index for
developing
countries (HPI-1)

Probability at birth of not
surviving to age 40

Adult literacy rate

Deprivation in economic provisioning,
measured by:
• Percentage of people without
sustainable access to an improved
water source
• Percentage of children under five
underweight for age

—

Human poverty
index for highincome OECD
countries (HPI-2)

Probability at birth of not
surviving to age 60

Percentage of adults lacking
functional literacy skills

Percentage of people living below the
income poverty line (50% of median
adjusted disposable household income)

Long-term unemployment
rate (12 months or more)

Gender-related
development
index (GDI)

Female and male life
expectancy at birth

• Female and male adult literacy rates
• Female and male combined gross
enrolment ratio for primary,
secondary and tertiary schools

Estimated female and male earned
income

—

THE STATE OF HUMAN DEVELOPMENT

127

Human development index
The human development index (HDI) focuses
on three measurable dimensions of human
development: living a long and healthy life,
being educated and having a decent standard
of living (see Technical note 1). Thus it combines measures of life expectancy, school enrolment, literacy and income to allow a broader
view of a country’s development than does
income alone.
Although the HDI is a useful starting point,
it is important to remember that the concept of
human development is much broader and more
complex than any summary measure can capture, even when supplemented by other indices.
The HDI is not a comprehensive measure. It
does not include important aspects of human
development, notably the ability to participate
in the decisions that affect one’s life and to
enjoy the respect of others in the community. A
person can be rich, healthy and well educated,
but without this ability human development is
impeded. The omission of this dimension of
human development from the HDI has been
highlighted since the first Human Development Reports—and drove the creation of a
human freedom index in 1991 and a political
freedom index in 1992. Neither measure survived past its first year, a testament to the difficulty of adequately quantifying such complex
aspects of human development.
This difficulty does not make the many
aspects of participation, such as political freedom and equal respect in the community, any
less important to human development than
the dimensions included in the HDI. In fact,
these issues have been explored extensively
in Human Development Reports. Human
Development Report 2002 dealt with democracy and its importance to human development. This year’s report introduces a related
and vitally important aspect of human development: cultural liberty. Leading a full life
includes being free to follow different cultural
practices and traditions without facing discrimination or disadvantage in participating
politically, economically or socially.
The HDI clearly illustrates the distinction
between income and human well-being. By
measuring average achievements in health, education and income, the HDI can give a more
complete picture of the state of a country’s
development than can incomes alone. Bolivia,
with a much lower GDP per capita than

128

Guatemala, has achieved a higher HDI because
it has done more to translate that income into
human development (figure 1). Tanzania, one
of the world’s poorest countries, has an HDI
comparable to that of Guinea, a country almost
four times richer. Conversely, countries at the
same level of income have large differences in
HDI—Viet Nam has roughly the same income
as Pakistan but a much higher HDI, due to its
higher life expectancy and literacy (figure 2).
Indicator table 1 highlights these differences in
another way by comparing HDI ranks with
ranks in GDP per capita (last column). Sri
Lanka ranks 96 of 177 countries in HDI, much
higher than its GDP rank of 112. These examples highlight the importance of policies that
translate wealth into human development. In
particular, well designed public policy and provision of services by governments, local communities and civil society can advance human
development even without high levels of income
or economic growth.
This does not mean, however, that economic growth is unimportant. Economic growth
is an important means to human development,
and when growth stagnates over a prolonged
Figure

1

Same HDI, different income

Human
development index
2002

Income
GDP per capita (PPP US$)
2002
4500

0.70

period, it becomes difficult to sustain progress
in human development.
Gender-related development index
The HDI measures average achievements in a
country, but it does not incorporate the degree
of gender imbalance in these achievements. Two
countries with the same average level of adult
literacy (say 30%) may have different disparities
in rates between men and women (one could
have a rate of 28% for women and 32% for men
while the other could have a rate of 20% for
women and 40% for men). Such differences in
disparities would not be reflected in the HDI for
the two countries. The gender-related development index (GDI), introduced in Human Development Report 1995, measures achievements
in the same dimensions using the same indicators as the HDI but captures inequalities in
achievement between women and men. It is simply the HDI adjusted downward for gender
inequality. The greater the gender disparity in
basic human development, the lower is a country’s GDI relative to its HDI. The countries with
the worst disparities between their GDI and
HDI values are Saudi Arabia, Oman, Pakistan,
Figure

2

Same income, different HDI

Income
GDP per capita (PPP US$)
2002

Human
development index
2002
0.80

5000

Jordan

Guatemala
4000

0.70

4000

Egypt
0.60

Bolivia

3000

0.60

3000

Viet Nam

2000
0.50

Guinea
2000

0.40
Source: Indicator table 1.

Tanzania

0

0.50

Pakistan

1000

1000

0.40

Source: Indicator table 1.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

Yemen and India, indicating a need for greater
attention to gender equality. Sweden, Denmark,
Australia, Latvia and Bulgaria have the closest
correspondence between HDI and GDI. Full
results and ranks are in indicator table 24.
Gender empowerment measure
The HDI does not include a measure of participation, an aspect of human development
that is central to gender equity. The gender
empowerment measure (GEM) reveals whether
women take an active part in economic and
political life. It focuses on gender inequality in
key areas of economic and political participation
and decision-making. It tracks the share of seats
in parliament held by women; of female legislators, senior officials and managers; and of
female professional and technical workers—
and the gender disparity in earned income,
reflecting economic independence. Differing
from the GDI, the GEM exposes inequality in
opportunities in selected areas. It has been calculated for 78 countries (for full results and
ranking, see indicator table 25). The top three
countries are Norway, Sweden and Denmark,
which have opened significant opportunities
for women to participate in economic and political life. But all countries can do more to expand
the opportunities for women: only nine countries have GEM values higher than 0.8 (out
of 1)—most have a long way to go to achieve full
empowerment of women.
Human poverty index
The HDI measures the average progress of a
country in human development. Human
Development Report 1997 introduced the
human poverty index (HPI), which focuses on
the proportion of people below a threshold
level in basic dimensions of human development, much as the poverty headcount measures the proportion of people below an income
threshold. The human poverty index for developing countries (HPI-1) uses different variables than the index for high-income OECD
countries (HPI-2), as shown in table 1. Indicator tables 3 and 4, respectively, give the full
results and rankings of these indices. As with
the HDI, these indices provide a more complete
view of poverty because they go beyond measures of income poverty. For developing countries Barbados, Uruguay, Chile, Costa Rica
and Cuba rank highest, with human poverty
levels of 5% or lower. Burkina Faso, Niger,

THE STATE OF HUMAN DEVELOPMENT

Mali, Ethiopia and Zimbabwe have the highest human poverty levels of the countries in the
index—all above 50%.
For high-income OECD countries HPI-2
shows a different picture from that shown by
the HDI. These countries tend to have very
similar HDI values, because of their high overall levels of development. But when variables
and dimensions of deprivation are used that are
specifically adapted to the situation in these
countries and to the different meaning of
poverty there (such as social exclusion), there
are substantial differences. For the 17 countries
with data, human poverty as measured by HPI-2
varies from 6.5% in Sweden to 15.8% in the
United States. And there are large differences
between HDI and HPI-2 ranks: Australia ranks
3rd in the HDI but 14th in the HPI-2. Luxembourg ranks 15th in the HDI but 7th in the
HPI-2, reflecting differences in how well these
countries have distributed the overall human
development achieved.
Trends in human development
Progress in human development during the
20th century was dramatic and unprecedented.
Between 1960 and 2000 life expectancy in developing countries increased from 46 to 63 years.1
Mortality rates for children under five were
more than halved.2 Between 1975, when one of
every two adults could not read, and 2000 the

share of illiterate people was almost halved.3
Real per capita incomes more than doubled,
from $2,000 to $4,200.4 But despite this impressive progress, massive human deprivation
remains. More than 800 million people suffer
from undernourishment (table 2). Some 100
million children who should be in school are not,
60 million of them girls. More than a billion people survive on less than $1 a day. Some 1.8 billion people live in countries where political
regimes do not fully accommodate democratic,
political and civil freedoms.5 And about 900 million people belong to ethnic, religious, racial or
linguistic groups that face discrimination.6
The Millennium Development Goals
Recognizing these problems, world leaders at
the United Nations Millennium Summit in
September 2000 expressed an unprecedented
determination to end world poverty. They
declared their commitment not only to the
people of their own countries but to the people of the world. The 189 countries at the summit adopted the Millennium Declaration,
committing themselves to do their utmost to
achieve key objectives of humanity in the 21st
century, including eradicating poverty, promoting human dignity and achieving peace,
democracy and environmental sustainability.
Stemming from the Declaration were the Millennium Development Goals—a set of 8 goals,

TABLE 2

Eliminating poverty: massive deprivation remains, 2000
(Millions)

Region
Sub-Saharan
Africa
Arab States
East Asia and
the Pacific
South Asia
Latin America
and the
Caribbean
Central & Eastern
Europe & CIS
World

Living
on less
than $1
(PPP US$)
a day

Total
Children
population Primary age Primary age under age
underchildren not girls not
five dying
nourished a in school
in school
each year

People
without
access
improved
water
sources

People
without
access to
adequate
sanitation

323
8

185
34

44
7

23
4

5
1

273
42

299
51

261
432

212
312

14
32

7
21

1
4

453
225

1,004
944

56

53

2

1

0

72

121

21
1,100

33
831

3
104

1
59

0
11

29
1,197

..
2,742

a. 1998–2000.
Source: World Bank 2003a, 2004f; UNESCO 2003; UN 2003.

129

Not enough progress toward the Millennium Development Goals

Figure

3

Percent

Poverty: Proportion of people living on less than $1 a day (%)
Sub-Saharan Africa

World

60

East Asia and the Pacific

Arab States

Regional distribution of population living
on less than $1 a day, 2000 (% of total)

45
GOAL

30

GOAL

GOAL

15

Latin America and Central and Eastern
the Caribbean 5.1 Europe and the CISa 1.9

GOAL

0

Percent

1990

2000

2015 1990

2000

2015 1990

2015 1990

2000

Sub-Saharan
Africa 29.3

2015

Central and Eastern
Europe and the CISa

Latin America and
the Caribbean

South Asia

60

2000

South Asia
39.2

45

Arab States
0.7

GOAL

30

GOAL

15

East Asia and
the Pacific 23.7

GOAL

0
1990

2000

2015 1990

2000

2015 1990

2000

2015

Global total: 1,100 million in 2000

Hunger: Undernourished people (as % of total population)
Percent

World

Sub-Saharan Africa

East Asia and the Pacific

Arab States

40

Regional distribution of population
undernourished, 1998–2000 (% of total)

30
GOAL

GOAL

20

GOAL
GOAL

10

Latin America and
the Caribbean 6.4

Sub-Saharan
Africa 22.2

0

Percent

1990-92 1999-2001

2015 1990-92 1999-2001

2015 1990-92 1999-2001

30

2015

Latin America and
the Caribbean

South Asia

40

2015 1990-92 1999-2001

Central and Eastern
Europe and the CIS 4.0

South Asia
37.6

Arab States
4.1

GOAL

20

East Asia and
the Pacific 25.6

GOAL

10
0
1990-92 1999-2001

2015 1990-92 1999-2001

Global total: 831 million in 2000

2015

Percent

Primary education: Net primary enrolment ratio (%)
Sub-Saharan Africa

World

100
75

GOAL

GOAL

East Asia and the Pacific

Arab States
GOAL

GOAL

50
25

Regional distribution of primary age children
not in school, 2000 (% of total)
Latin America and Central and Eastern
the Caribbean 1.9 Europe and the CIS 2.5

0

Percent

1990

2000

2015 1990

2000

2015 1990

75

2015 1990

2000

GOAL

GOAL

2015

Central and Eastern
Europe and the CIS

Latin America and
the Caribbean

South Asia

100

2000

South Asia
31.7

GOAL

50

East Asia and
the Pacific 13.7

25
0
1990

2000

2015 1990

2000

Sub-Saharan
Africa 43.0

2015 1990

2000

2015

Arab States 7.2

Global total: 104 million in 2000

Percent

Gender equality: Ratio of girls to boys in primary school (%)
World

100

Sub-Saharan Africa
GOAL

75

East Asia and the Pacific

Arab States

GOAL

GOAL

GOAL

50

Regional distribution of primary age girls not
in school, 2000 (% of total)
Latin America and Central and Eastern
the Caribbean 1.9 Europe and the CIS 2.2

25
0

Percent

1990

2000

2015 1990

2000

2015 1990

South Asia

100

2000

GOAL

75

2015 1990

Latin America and
the Caribbean

2000

2015

Central and Eastern
Europe and the CIS

GOAL

East Asia and
the Pacific 11.9

25

130

1990

2000

2015 1990

2000

2015 1990

Sub-Saharan
Africa 39.9

GOAL

50

0

South Asia
36.6

2000

2015

Arab States 7.6

Global total: 59 million in 2000

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

Figure

Not enough progress towards the Millennium Development Goals

3

Per 1,000 live births

Child mortality: Under-five mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)
East Asia and the Pacific

Arab States

Regional distribution of children dying each year
under age five, 2002 (% of total)

150
100

GOAL

GOAL

GOAL
GOAL

50
0
1990

Per 1,000 live births

Sub-Saharan Africa

World

200

2000

2015 1990

2000

2015 1990

South Asia

200

2000

2015 1990

2000

2015

Central and Eastern
Europe and the CIS

Latin America and
the Caribbean

150
100

GOAL

GOAL

GOAL

50

Latin America and Central and Eastern
the Caribbean 3.7 Europe and the CIS 1.5

Sub-Saharan
Africa 42.8
South Asia
33.4
East Asia and
the Pacific 12.2

Arab States 5.8

0
1990

2000

2015 1990

2000

2015 1990

2000

2015

Global total: 11 million in 2002

Percent

Access to water: People with access to an improved water source (%)
World

100
75

Sub-Saharan Africa

East Asia and the Pacific

GOAL

Regional distribution of people without access to
improved water source, 2000 (% of total)

GOAL

50

Latin America and
the Caribbean 6.6

GOAL

25
0

Percent

1990

2000

2015 1990

2000

2015 1990

75

South Asia
20.6

Sub-Saharan
Africa 24.9

Arab States
3.9

GOAL

GOAL

50

2015

Latin America and
the Caribbean

South Asia

100

2000

Central and Eastern
Europe and the CIS 2.7

East Asia and
the Pacific 41.4

25
0
1990

2000

2015 1990

2000

2015

Global total: 1,197 million in 2000

Percent

Access to sanitation: People with access to improved sanitation (%)
Sub-Saharan Africa

World

100

East Asia and the Pacific

GOAL

GOAL

75
50

GOAL

25
0

Percent

Regional distribution of people without access to
adequate sanitation, 2000 (% of total)
Latin America and
the Caribbean 5.0

Sub-Saharan
Africa 12.4
Arab States 2.1

1990

2000

2015 1990

2000

2015 1990

2015

Latin America and
the Caribbean

South Asia

100

2000

South
Asia 39.0

75
GOAL

50
GOAL

25
0
1990

2000

2015 1990

2000

2015

East Asia and
the Pacific 41.5
Global total: 2,742 million in 2000

a: Refers to population living on less than $2 a day.
Sources: World Bank 2003a (income); FAO 2003, World Bank 2004f (hunger); UNESCO 2003 (primary education); UNESCO 2003 (gender equality); UN 2003, World Bank 2004f (child mortality); World Bank 2004f (access to
water); World Bank 2004f (access to sanitation).

THE STATE OF HUMAN DEVELOPMENT

131

18 targets and 48 indicators—that establish
concrete, time-bound targets for advancing
development and reducing poverty by 2015
or earlier (see Index to Millennium Development Goal indicators at the end of this feature).
As Human Development Report 2003
argued, human development and the Millennium Development Goals share a common
motivation and vital commitment to promoting human well-being. The progress of
countries and regions on the Millennium
Development Goals since 1990 highlights a
key aspect of development over the past
decade: rapid progress for some, but reversals
for an unprecedented number of other countries (figure 3). The picture that emerges is
increasingly one of two very different groups
of countries: those that have benefited from
development, and those that have been left
behind (tables 3–5).
An examination of regional progress on
selected Millennium Development Goals reveals
several noteworthy trends (see figure 3). East
Asia and the Pacific stands out as being on
track for all the goals for which trend data are
available. The number of people living on less
than $1 a day in the region was almost halved
during the 1990s. South Asia is also making
rapid progress on a number of goals. But despite
the impressive pace of these two regions, which
together account for almost half the world’s
population, human development is proceeding too slowly. Only two of the goals, halving
income poverty and halving the proportion of
people without access to safe water, will be
met at the pace of progress of the last decade,
and progress on the others, hunger reduction
and access to sanitation, is nearly on track (figure 4). But even progress on these goals is driven mainly by the rapid development of China
and India.
Other regions, particularly Sub-Saharan
Africa, are performing much less well. At the
current pace Sub-Saharan Africa will not meet
the goal for universal primary education until
2129 or the goal for reducing child mortality
by two-thirds until 2106—100 years away,
rather than the 11 called for by the goals. In
three of the goals—hunger, income poverty
and access to sanitation—no date can be set
because the situation in the region is worsening, not improving.

132

TABLE 3

TABLE 4

Progress and setbacks: child mortality
(Per 1,000 live births)
Country
1990
2002
Change

Progress and setbacks: primary education
(Net primary enrolment ratio, percent)
Country
1990/91 2001/02 Change

Best performers
Bhutan
Guinea
Bangladesh
Egypt
Lao, PDR
Eritrea
Worst performers
Iraq
Botswana
Zimbabwe
Swaziland
Cameroon
Kenya

Best performers
Dominican Republic
Guinea
Kuwait
Morocco
Mauritania
Malawi
Worst performers
Angola
Azerbaijan
Congo, Dem. Rep.
United Arab Emirates
Myanmar
Nepal

166
240
144
104
163
147

94
169
77
41
100
89

–72
–71
–67
–63
–63
–58

50
58
80
110
139
97

125
110
123
149
166
122

75
52
43
39
27
25

Source: UNICEF 2003b.

58
25
49
57
35
50

97
61
85
88
67
81

39
36
36
32
31
31

58
101
54
100
99
85

30
80
35
81
82
70

–28
–21
–20
–19
–18
–14

Source: Indicator table 11.

TABLE 5

Progress and setbacks: income poverty
(People living under the national poverty line, percent)
Country
Good performers
Azerbaijan
Uganda
India
Jordan
Cambodia
Guatemala
Bangladesh
Poor performers
Zimbabwe
Morocco
Pakistan
Hungary

Year

Change a
(percentage points)

Year

Share

Share

1995
1993
1993–94
1991
1993–94
1989
1995–96

68.1
55.0
36.0
15.0
39.0
57.9
51.0

2001
1997
1999–2000
1997
1997
2000
2000

49.6
44.0
28.6
11.7
36.1
56.2
49.8

–18.5
–11.0
–7.4
–3.3
–2.9
–1.7
–1.2

1990–91
1990–91
1993
1993

25.8
13.1
28.6
14.5

1995–96
1998–99
1998–99
1997

34.9
19.0
32.6
17.3

9.1
5.9
4.0
2.8

Note: Comparisons should not be made across countries because national poverty lines vary considerably.
a. A minus sign indicates an improvement—less poverty.
Source: World Bank 2004f.
TABLE 6

The unprecedented reversals of the 1990s
Looking beyond regional averages reveals many
tragic reversals. An unprecedented number of
countries saw development slide backwards in
the 1990s. In 46 countries people are poorer
today than in 1990. In 25 countries more people go hungry today than a decade ago.
These reversals can also be seen clearly in
the HDI. This is particularly troubling—in
previous decades, virtually no country experienced a decline in the HDI. The index has
moved steadily upward, though usually slowly
because three of its key components—literacy,
school enrolment and life expectancy—take
time to change. So when the HDI falls, that
indicates crisis. Countries are depleting their

Countries experiencing a drop in the
human development index, 1980s and
1990s
Period
Number
Countries
1980–90
1990–2002

3
20

Democratic Republic of
Congo, Rwanda, Zambia
Bahamas, Belize,
Botswana, Cameroon,
Central African Republic,
Congo, Democratic
Republic of Congo, Côte
d’Ivoire, Kazakhstan,a
Kenya, Lesotho, Moldova,a
Russian Federation,a
South Africa, Swaziland,
Tajikistan,a Tanzania,a
Ukraine,a Zambia,
Zimbabwe

a. Country does not have HDI data for 1980–90, so drop may
have begun before 1990.
Source: Indicator table 2.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

Figure

4

Timeline: when will the Millennium Development Goals be achieved if progress does not accelerate?
Poverty
Achieved

Hunger

Primary
education

Gender
equality

Arab Statesa

East Asia & the Pacific

East Asia & the Pacific

East Asia & the Pacific

Latin America &
the Caribbeana

Latin America &
the Caribbeana

Central & Eastern
Europe & the CISa

Central & Eastern
Europe & the CISa

Child
mortality

Access to
water

Access to
sanitation

Central & Eastern
Europe & the CISa

Years

Worlda
2000

South Asia

East Asia & the Pacific

South Asia

South Asia

World

World

Arab States
Latin America &
the Caribbean

Latin America &
the Caribbean

World

East Asia & the Pacific

East Asia & the Pacific

East Asia & the Pacific

South Asia

South Asia

Sub-Saharan Africa

World

Latin America &
the Caribbean

Arab States

World

Sub-Saharan Africa

2015

South Asia

2100

Sub-Saharan Africa

Arab States

South Asia

World

Latin America &
the Caribbean

Sub-Saharan Africa

2150

Central & Eastern
Europe & the CIS
2200

Latin America &
the Caribbean
Reversal

Sub-Saharan Africa

Arab States

Central & Eastern
Europe & the CIS

Sub-Saharan Africa

Sub-Saharan Africa

a. Region is considered achieved as it has low human poverty (below 10%) in most recent year for the relevant goal (See technical note 2)
Source: Calculated on the basis of figure 3.

basis for development—their people, who are
their real wealth.
Since 1990, 20 countries have suffered a
reversal in the HDI. By contrast, only 3 (of 113
countries with available data) saw their HDI
decline in the 1980s (table 6). The reversals in
these countries, together with stagnation in
others, do much to explain the overall deceleration in HDI progress in the last decade (figure 5). Of the 20 countries experiencing
reversals, 13 are in Sub-Saharan Africa. Much
of this is due to the HIV/AIDS epidemic and
its massive impact on life expectancy. The other
reversals are mainly in countries in the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), many
of which started on a downward trend in the
mid-1980s, reflected in the data as a drop in
incomes and HDI between 1990 and 1995. The
region’s HDI started to improve again in the
later half of the 1990s.
The drop in many countries’ HDI signals a
problem; looking at key indicators of progress

THE STATE OF HUMAN DEVELOPMENT

towards the Millennium Development Goals
reveals its depth. Without significant changes,
countries experiencing reversals or stagnation
have little chance of achieving the goals.
Priority countries
For each goal there are countries where the situation is particularly urgent—where failed
progress is combined with brutally low starting
levels. These top priority countries are in greatest need of the world’s attention, resources and
commitments (see Technical note 2). In high priority countries the situation is less desperate, but
progress is still insufficient. These countries are
either making progress from low levels of development or achieving slow (or negative) progress
from higher levels.
There are 27 top priority countries that are
failing in several goals: 21 in Sub-Saharan
Africa, 3 in the Arab States and 1 each in East
Asia and Pacific, South Asia and Latin America
and the Caribbean (figure 6). In these countries

development is failing across the board. They
require the world’s attention and resources if
they are to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. Another 27 high priority countries
face serious challenges across the goals. Again,
Sub-Saharan Africa has the greatest number,
at 17, and Central and Eastern Europe and
the CIS and the Arab States have 3 each, East
Asia and the Pacific has 2, and South Asia and
Latin America and the Caribbean have 1 each.
Grouping countries into top priority, high
priority and other categories is useful, but such
efforts should be viewed with caution. The
underlying data for individual goals are often
measured imprecisely, and some country classifications will change as the data improve.
Moreover, many countries are missing too
much data for individual goals to be given
proper overall classifications. Thus some of
the 30 countries in the “other” category would
be top or high priority countries if the underlying data were more complete. (Examples

133

No single factor can explain the predicaments of the top and high priority countries. But
24 of these 54 countries also saw incomes fall
during the decade. And the countries from
Sub-Saharan Africa tend to share common features. Many are landlocked or have a large portion of their populations living far from a coast.
In addition, most are small—only four have
more than 40 million people. Being far from
world markets and having a small economy
make it much harder to diversify from primary
commodities to less volatile exports with more
value added. Indeed, primary commodities
account for more than two-thirds of exports in
16 of the 23 top or high priority Sub-Saharan
countries with data. Many of the region’s priority countries also have other serious concerns: in 22 countries more than 5% of the
population has HIV/AIDS, and in 9 countries
there were violent conflicts in the 1990s.
In other regions top priority countries face
other challenges. Many countries in the CIS,
for example—while also facing some of the
structural problems affecting Sub-Saharan
Africa—are trying to make the transition to a
market economy, a process that has been much
more successful in Central and Eastern Europe.
In the Arab States constraints are unrelated to
income, deriving instead from a failure to convert income into human development and
progress towards the goals.

Figure

5
Human Development Index

include Kyrgyzstan and Pakistan.) In addition,
the classification criteria used here are plausible
but only one among many reasonable choices.

Global disparities in HDI
Human development index

1.00

High-income OECD
.900

Central and Eastern
Europe and the CIS
.800

Latin America and the Caribbean
.700

Arab States

East Asia and the Pacific
.600

South
Asia
.500

Sub-Saharan Africa
.400

1975

1980

1985

1990

1995

2002

Source: Calculated on the basis of data on life expectancy from UN 2003; data on adult literacy rates from UNESCO Institute for Statistics 2003a; data
on combined gross enrolment ratios from UNESCO 1999 and UNESCO Institute for Statistics 2004c; and data on GDP per capita (1995 PPP
US$) and GDP per capita (current PPP US$) from World Bank 2004f.

Figure

6

Top and high priority countries
Top priority
High priority
No data

So what needs to be done to achieve the Millennium Development Goals? No matter how
that question is answered, the top priority and
high priority countries must be front and centre.
The issues they face and ways to resolve them
were considered in detail in Human Development Report 2003.
1. Calculated on the basis of life expectancy data from UN
2003. 2. UNICEF 2003b. 3. UNESCO Institute for Statistics
2003a. 4. Calculated on the basis of GDP per capita (PPP
US$) data from World Bank 2004f. 5. Polity IV 2002.
6. Chapter 2.

Region

Top priority
countries

High priority
countries

Arab States

3

3

East Asia & the Pacific

1

2

Latin America and Caribbean

1

1

South Asia

1

1

21

17

0

3

Sub-Saharan Africa
Central and Eastern Europe and the CIS

Level of human
poverty (in goal)
Low

Medium

High
Priority

High

Top
Priority
Slow or
reversing

Source: See Technical note 2.

134

High
Priority
Moderate

Fast

Progress towards the goal

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

Index to Millennium Development Goal indicators in the indicator tables

Goals and targets

Indicators for monitoring progress

Goal 1 Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger
Target 1
Halve, between 1990 and 2015, the proportion of people
whose income is less than $1 a day

1. Proportion of population below $1 (PPP) a day
2. Poverty gap ratio (incidence ✕ depth of poverty)
3. Share of poorest quintile in national consumption

Target 2
Halve, between 1990 and 2015, the proportion of people
who suffer from hunger

4. Prevalence of underweight children under five years of age
5. Proportion of population below minimum level of dietary
energy consumption

Indicator table

Goal 2 Achieve universal primary education
Target 3
6. Net enrolment ratio in primary education
Ensure that, by 2015, children everywhere, boys and girls alike, 7. Proportion of pupils starting grade 1 who reach grade 5
will be able to complete a full course of primary schooling
8. Literacy rate of 15- to 24-year-olds

3
14
3, 7
7 1, 33 1

11, 33
11
11

Goal 3 Promote gender equality and empower women
Target 4
Eliminate gender disparity in primary and secondary
education, preferably by 2005, and to all levels of
education no later than 2015

9. Ratio of girls to boys in primary, secondary and tertiary education
10. Ratio of literate women to men ages 15–24
11. Share of women in wage employment in the non-agricultural sector 4
12. Proportion of seats held by women in national parliaments

25, 29

Goal 4 Reduce child mortality
Target 5
Reduce by two thirds, between 1990 and 2015, the
under-five mortality rate

13. Under-five mortality rate
14. Infant mortality rate
15. Proportion of one-year-old children immunized against measles

9, 33
9
6

Goal 5 Improve maternal health
Target 6
Reduce by three quarters, between 1990 and 2015, the
maternal mortality ratio
Goal 6 Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases
Target 7
Have halted by 2015 and begun to reverse the spread
of HIV/AIDS

Target 8
Have halted by 2015 and begun to reverse the incidence
of malaria and other major diseases

Goal 7 Ensure environmental sustainability
Target 9
Integrate the principles of sustainable development into
country policies and programmes and reverse the loss of
environmental resources

THE STATE OF HUMAN DEVELOPMENT

16. Maternal mortality ratio
17. Proportion of births attended by skilled health personnel

18. HIV prevalence among pregnant women ages 15–24 5
19. Condom use rate of the contraceptive prevalence rate
19a. Condom use at last high-risk sex
19b. Percentage of 15- to 24-year-olds with comprehensive correct
knowledge of HIV/AIDS
20. Ratio of school attendance of orphans to school attendance of
non-orphans ages 10–14
21. Prevalence and death rates associated with malaria
22. Proportion of population in malaria-risk areas using effective malaria
prevention and treatment measures
23. Prevalence and death rates associated with tuberculosis
24. Proportion of tuberculosis cases detected and cured under directly
observed treatment, short course (DOTS)

25. Proportion of land area covered by forest
26. Ratio of area protected to maintain biological diversity to surface area
27. Energy use (kilograms of oil equivalent) per $1 GDP (PPP)

26 2
26 3

9
6

8

86
87
88
8

219

135

Goals and targets

Indicators for monitoring progress

Goal 7, continued
Target 9, continued

28. Carbon dioxide emissions per capita and consumption of
ozone-depleting chlorofluorocarbons (ODP tons)
29. Proportion of population using solid fuels

Target 10
Halve by 2015 the proportion of people without sustainable
access to safe drinking water and sanitation

30. Proportion of population with sustainable access to an improved
water source, urban and rural
31. Proportion of population with access to improved sanitation,
urban and rural

Target 11
By 2020 to have achieved a significant improvement in the
lives of at least 100 million slum dwellers

Indicator table
21 10

7 11, 33 11
7 12

32. Proportion of households with access to secure tenure

Goal 8 Develop a global partnership for development
Target 12
Develop further an open, rule-based, predictable,
non-discriminatory trading and financial system
Includes a commitment to good governance, development,
and poverty reduction—both nationally and
internationally

Official development assistance
33. Net ODA, total and to least developed countries, as a percentage
of OECD/DAC donors’ gross national income GNI
16 13
34. Proportion of total bilateral, sector-allocable ODA of OECD/DAC
donors to basic social services (basic education, primary health care,
nutrition, safe water and sanitation)
16
35. Proportion of bilateral ODA of OECD/DAC donors that is untied
16
Target 13
36. ODA received in landlocked countries as proportion of their gross
Address the special needs of the least developed countries
national incomes
Includes: tariff and quota-free access for least-developed
37. ODA received in small island developing States as proportion of their
countries’ exports; enhanced programme of debt relief for
gross national incomes
HIPCs and cancellation of official bilateral debt; and more Market access
generous ODA for countries committed to poverty reduction 38. Proportion of total developed country imports (by value and excluding
arms) from developing countries and from the least developed countries,
Target 14
admitted free of duties
Address the special needs of landlocked countries and small
39. Average tariffs imposed by developed countries on agricultural
island developing States
products and textiles and clothing from developing countries
40. Agricultural support estimate for OECD countries as a percentage
Target 15
of their gross domestic product
17
Deal comprehensively with the debt problems of developing
41. Proportion of ODA provided to help build trade capacity
countries through national and international measures in
Debt sustainability
order to make debt sustainable in the long term
42. Total number of countries that have reached their HIPC decision points
and number that have reached their HIPC completion points (cumulative)
43. Debt relief committed under HIPC Debt Initiative 14
44. Debt service as a percentage of exports of goods and services
18
Target 16
45. Unemployment rate of 15- to 24-year-olds, male and female and total
In cooperation with developing countries, develop and
implement strategies for decent and productive work for youth
Target 17
46. Proportion of population with access to affordable essential drugs on
In cooperation with pharmaceutical companies, provide access
a sustainable basis
to affordable essential drugs in developing countries
Target 18
In cooperation with the private sector, make available the
benefits of new technologies, especially information and
communications

47. Telephone lines and cellular subscribers per 100 people
48a. Personal computers in use per 100 people
48b. Internet users per 100 people

20 15

6

12 16
12

Note: Millennium Development Goal (MDG) indicators are identified in the indicator tables by the symbol MDG in orange above the relevant columns.
1. Tables 7 and 33 present this indicator as undernourished people as percent of total population. 2. Table presents female enrolment ratio as percent of male ratio for primary, secondary and tertiary education levels separately.
3. Table presents data on female youth literacy rate as percent of male rate. 4. Table 27 includes data on female employment by economic activity. 5. Table 8 presents HIV prevalence among people ages 15–49. 6. Table includes
data on malaria cases per 100,000 people. 7. Table includes data on children under age five with insecticide-treated bed nets and children under age five with fever treated with anti-malarial drugs. 8. Table includes data on
tuberculosis cases per 100,000 people. 9. Table presents this indicator as GDP per unit of energy use (1995 PPP US$ per kilogram of oil equivalent). 10. Table includes data on carbon dioxide emissions per capita. 11. Tables 7 and
33 include data on population with sustainable access to an improved water source for urban and rural combined. 12. Table includes data on population with sustainable access to improved sanitation for urban and rural combined.
13. Table includes data on official development assistance (ODA) to least developed countries as percent of total ODA. 14. Table 17 includes data on bilateral debt relief pledges to the HIPC trust fund and gross bilateral debt
forgiveness. 15. Table includes data on unemployment rate of 15- to 24-year-olds as total and female rate as percent of male rate for OECD countries only. 16. Table presents telephone lines and cellular subscribers separately.

136

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

Statistical feature 2 Note to table 1: About this year’s human development index
The human development index (HDI) is a composite index that measures the average achievements in a country in three basic dimensions of
human development: a long and healthy life, as
measured by life expectancy at birth; knowledge, as measured by the adult literacy rate and
the combined gross enrolment ratio for primary,
secondary and tertiary schools; and a decent
standard of living, as measured by GDP per
capita in purchasing power parity (PPP) US dollars. The index is constructed using indicators
that are currently available globally, and a
methodology that is simple and transparent (see
Technical note 1).
While the concept of human development
is much broader than any single composite index
can measure, the HDI offers a powerful alternative to income as a summary measure of human
well-being. It provides a useful entry point into
the rich information contained in the subsequent indicator tables on different aspects of
human development.
Country coverage
The HDI in this Report, presented in indicator
table 1, refers to 2002. It covers 175 UN member countries, along with Hong Kong, China
(SAR) and the Occupied Palestinian Territories. As a result of improvements in data availability, two countries—Timor-Leste and
Tonga—are included in the HDI table for the
first time.
Data availability affects the HDI country
coverage. To enable cross-country comparisons,
the HDI is, to the extent possible, calculated
based on data from leading international data
agencies available when the Report was prepared (see Data sources below). But for a number of countries data are missing for one or more
of the four HDI components.
In response to the desire of countries to be
included in the HDI table, and striving to
include as many UN member countries as possible, the Human Development Report Office
has made special efforts in a number of cases to
obtain an estimate from other international,
regional or national sources when data are lacking from the primary international data agencies
for one or two of the HDI components for a
country. In a very few cases, the Human Development Report Office has produced an estimate. These estimates from sources other than
the primary international agencies (see descriptions below) are documented in the footnotes
to indicator table 1. They are often of varying

quality and reliability and are not presented in
other indicator tables showing similar data.

data. In calculating the HDI, a literacy rate of
99.0% is applied for those countries.

Owing to a lack of comparable data, 16 UN
member countries cannot be included in the
HDI. For these countries basic human development indicators are presented in table 33.

In collecting literacy data, many countries
estimate the number of literate people based on
self-reported data. Some use educational attainment data as a proxy, but measures of school
attendance or grade completion may differ.
Because definitions and data collection methods
vary across countries, literacy estimates should be
used with caution (UNDP 2000, box 2, p. 143).

Data sources
Life expectancy at birth. The life expectancy
estimates are from the 2002 Revision of World
Population Prospects (UN 2003). They are prepared biannually by the United Nations Population Division on the basis of data from national
population censuses and surveys. In the 2002
Revision, the United Nations Population Division made significant adjustments to further
incorporate the demographic impact of the
HIV/AIDS epidemic. It anticipates a more serious and prolonged impact of the epidemic in the
most affected countries than previous revisions
did. The impact of the disease is explicitly modeled for 53 countries, up from the 45 considered
in the 2000 Revision (UN 2001).
The life expectancy estimates published by
the United Nations Population Division are fiveyear averages. The life expectancy estimates for
2002 shown in indicator table 1 and those underlying indicator table 2 are obtained through
linear interpolation based on these five-year
averages.
Adult literacy rate. The adult literacy rate
is defined as the percentage of people ages 15 and
above who can, with understanding, both read
and write a short simple statement related to
their everyday life. Literacy data using this definition are usually collected during national population censuses, generally conducted every 5 or
10 years, or from household surveys.
This report uses data on adult literacy rates
from the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) Institute for Statistics (UIS) March 2004 Assessment
(UNESCO Institute for Statistics 2004a), which
combines direct national estimates with UIS
estimates. The national estimates, made available
to UIS only recently, are obtained from national
censuses or surveys between 1995 and 2004.
The UIS estimates, produced in July 2002, were
based on national data collected before 1995.
Many high-income OECD countries, having attained universal primary schooling for their
populations, no longer collect literacy statistics
in national population censuses or household surveys and thus are not included in the UNESCO

ABOUT THIS YEAR’S HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDEX

The UIS, in collaboration with other partners, is actively pursuing an alternative methodology for measuring literacy, the Literacy
Assessment and Monitoring Programme (LAMP;
see box 5 in Note on statistics). LAMP seeks to
go beyond the current simple categories of literate and illiterate by providing information on
a continuum of literacy skills.
For details on both the 2002 UIS estimation
methods and the new literacy data collection
methodology, see http://www.uis.unesco.org/.
Combined gross enrolment ratio for primary, secondary and tertiary schools. Gross
enrolment ratios are produced by the UNESCO
Institute for Statistics based on enrolment data
collected from national governments (usually
from administrative sources) and population
data from the United Nations Population Division’s 2002 Revision of World Population
Prospects (UN 2003). The ratios are calculated
by dividing the number of students enrolled in
all levels of schooling by the total population in
the official age group corresponding to these
levels. The tertiary age group is set to five cohorts
immediately following on the end of upper secondary school in all countries.
Countries are usually asked to report numbers of students enrolled at the beginning of the
academic year in each level of education as
defined by the International Standard Classification of Education (ISCED). A revised version
of ISCED was introduced in 1997, which led to
some changes in the classifications of national
programmes of education. These changes, however, have less impact on the estimation of combined gross enrolment ratios for primary,
secondary and tertiary schools.
Though intended as a proxy for educational
attainment, the combined gross enrolment ratio
does not reflect the quality of education outcomes. Even when used to capture access to
education opportunities, it can hide important
differences among countries because of differences in the age range corresponding to a level

137

of education and in the duration of education
programmes. Such factors as grade repetition can
also create distortions in the data.
Measures such as mean years of schooling
of a population or school life expectancy more
adequately capture education outcomes and ideally would replace gross enrolment ratios in the
HDI. However, such data are not yet regularly
available for a sufficient number of countries.
Expanding the coverage and quality of such
data should be a priority for the international statistical community.
As currently defined, the combined gross
enrolment ratio does not take into account students enrolled in other countries. Current data
for many smaller countries, such as Luxembourg and Seychelles, where many people pursue tertiary education abroad, could significantly
underrepresent actual access to education or the
educational attainment of a population and
thus lead to a lower HDI value. For instance,
the combined gross enrolment ratio for Luxembourg is estimated at 75% but rises to 85%
when students enrolled abroad are taken into
account.1 Though the differences in the resulting HDI values are small (0.933 and 0.944,
respectively), the HDI ranking of Luxembourg
would change from 15 to 4 due to the small differences in the HDI values among the high
human development countries. However, data
on such a revised gross enrolment ratio are not
widely available for other countries and so cannot yet be used in the HDI.
GDP per capita (PPP US$). To compare
standards of living across countries GDP per
capita needs to be converted into purchasing
power parity (PPP) terms that eliminate differences in national price levels. The GDP per
capita (PPP US$) data for the HDI are provided for 163 countries by the World Bank based
on price data from the latest International Comparison Program (ICP) surveys and GDP in
local currency from national accounts data.
The ICP survey covered 118 countries for
which PPPs have been estimated directly by
extrapolating from the latest benchmark results.
For countries not included in the benchmark

138

surveys, estimates are made using econometric
regression. For countries not covered by the
World Bank, PPP estimates provided by the
Penn World Tables of the University of Pennsylvania are used.2
In a limited number of cases where reliable
PPP estimates are not available from the two
international sources, the Human Development
Report Office has worked with regional and
national agencies to obtain a PPP estimate for a
country. For example, in the case of Cuba, a
technical team of national and international
experts has been formed to explore different
methodologies for obtaining a better PPP estimate. The results of this effort will be reflected
in future Reports.
Though much progress has been made in
recent decades, the current PPP data set suffers
a number of deficiencies, including lack of universal coverage, of timeliness of the data and of
uniformity in the quality of results from different regions and countries. Filling gaps in country coverage using econometric regression
requires strong assumptions, and extrapolation
over time means that the results become increasingly weak as the distance lengthens between the
reference survey year and the current year.
The importance of PPPs in economic analysis underlines the need for improvement in PPP
data. A new Millennium Round of the ICP has
been established and promises much improved
PPP data for economic policy analysis, including international poverty assessment (Note on
statistics, box 6).
Comparisons over time and across editions of
the Report
The HDI is an important tool for monitoring
long-term trends in human development. To
facilitate trend analysis across countries, the
HDI is calculated at five-year intervals for the
period 1975–2002. These estimates, presented in
indicator table 2, are based on a consistent
methodology and on comparable trend data
available when the Report is prepared.
As international data agencies continually
improve their data series, including updating

historical data periodically, the year-to-year
changes in the HDI values and rankings across
editions of the Human Development Report
often reflect revisions to data—both specific to
a country and relative to other countries—rather
than real changes in a country. In addition, occasional changes in country coverage could also
affect the HDI ranking of a country, even when
a consistent methodology is used to calculate
the HDI. As a result, a country’s HDI rank
could drop considerably between two consecutive Reports, but when comparable, revised data
are used to reconstruct the HDI for recent years,
the HDI rank and value may actually show an
improvement.
For these reasons HDI trend analyses
should not be based on data from different
editions of the Report. Indicator table 2 provides up-to-date HDI trend data based on consistent data and methodology. For HDI values
and ranks recalculated for 2001 (the reference
year of the HDI in Human Development
Report 2003) based on data and country coverage comparable to this year’s Report, see
http://hdr.undp.org/.
HDI for high human development countries
The HDI in this Report is constructed to compare country achievements across all levels of
human development. The indicators currently
used in the HDI yield very small differences
among the top HDI countries, and thus the top
of the HDI rankings often reflects only the very
small differences in these underlying indicators.
For these high-income countries an alternative
index—the human poverty index (shown in indicator table 4 and discussed in Statistical feature 1, The state of human development)—can
better reflect the extent of human deprivation
that still exists among these populations and
help direct the focus of public policies.
For further discussions on the use and limitations of the HDI, see Statistical feature 1, The
state of human development.

1. Statec 2004.
2. Aten, Heston and Summers 2001, 2002.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

1 Human
development
index

HDI rank a

MONITORING HUMAN DEVELOPMENT: ENLARGING PEOPLE’S CHOICES . . .

Life
expectancy
at birth
(years)
2002

Combined
gross enrolment
Adult ratio for primary,
literacy
secondary
rate
and tertiary
GDP
(% ages 15
schools
per capita
and above)
(%)
(PPP US$)
2002 b
2001/02 c
2002

Life
expectancy
index

Education
index

GDP
index

Human
development
index
(HDI)
value
2002

GDP
per capita
(PPP US$)
rank
minus
HDI rank d

36,600
26,050
28,260
29,480
29,100

0.90
0.92
0.90
0.90
0.89

0.99
0.99
0.99
0.98
0.99

0.99
0.93
0.94
0.95
0.95

0.956
0.946
0.946
0.943
0.942

1
19
9
5
6

27,570
29,750
35,750
26,940
36,360

0.90
0.91
0.87
0.94
0.86

0.99
0.96
0.97
0.94
0.96

0.94
0.95
0.98
0.93
0.98

0.942
0.941
0.939
0.938
0.936

7
1
-4
6
-7

30,010
26,150
26,190
29,220
61,190

0.90
0.88
0.88
0.89
0.89

0.95
0.99
0.99
0.96
0.91

0.95
0.93
0.93
0.95
1.00

0.936
0.936
0.935
0.934
0.933

-4
8
6
-4
-14

26,920
30,940
21,740
27,100
21,460

0.90
0.86
0.89
0.89
0.90

0.96
0.98
0.99
0.95
0.97

0.93
0.96
0.90
0.94
0.90

0.932
0.932
0.926
0.925
0.922

0
-12
6
-5
5

26,430
19,530
26,910
18,720
24,040

0.89
0.90
0.91
0.89
0.88

0.93
0.94
0.86
0.95
0.91

0.93
0.88
0.93
0.87
0.92

0.920
0.908
0.903
0.902
0.902

-3
5
-6
5
-3

18,280
18,540
16,950
15,290
18,360

0.85
0.85
0.84
0.87
0.89

0.97
0.96
0.97
0.95
0.89

0.87
0.87
0.86
0.84
0.87

0.897
0.895
0.888
0.888
0.883

6
3
9
11
1

0.89
0.84
0.85
0.82
0.80

0.87
0.92
0.87
0.96
0.90

0.86
0.84
0.88
0.78
0.87

0.875
0.868
0.867
0.853
0.853

3
7
-5
14
-2

12,260
10,560
13,400
12,420
17,170

0.78
0.81
0.78
0.75
0.81

0.98
0.96
0.95
0.98
0.85

0.80
0.78
0.82
0.80
0.86

0.853
0.850
0.848
0.844
0.843

10
13
3
6
-4

10,320
12,840
9,820
16,240
8,840

0.79
0.81
0.85
0.86
0.88

0.96
0.91
0.90
0.81
0.87

0.77
0.81
0.77
0.85
0.75

0.842
0.842
0.839
0.838
0.834

10
1
11
-6
14

0.84
0.78
0.82
0.83
0.76

0.94
0.83
0.90
0.74
0.95

0.73
0.88
0.77
0.90
0.75

0.833
0.833
0.830
0.824
0.823

16
-21
4
-26
6

High human development
1
2
3
4
5

Norway
Sweden
Australia
Canada
Netherlands

78.9
80.0
79.1
79.3
78.3

..
..
..
..
..

e
e
e
e
e

6
7
8
9
10

Belgium
Iceland
United States
Japan
Ireland

78.7
79.7
77.0
81.5
76.9

..
..
..
..
..

e

11
12
13
14
15

Switzerland
United Kingdom
Finland
Austria
Luxembourg

79.1
78.1
77.9
78.5
78.3

..
..
..
..
..

e

e
e
e
e

e
e
e
e

16
17
18
19
20

France
Denmark
New Zealand
Germany
Spain

78.9
76.6
78.2
78.2
79.2

..
..
..
..
97.7

e

21
22
23
24
25

Italy
Israel
Hong Kong, China (SAR)
Greece
Singapore

78.7
79.1
79.9
78.2
78.0

98.5
95.3
93.5
97.3
92.5

e, f, k

e, f, k

26
27
28
29
30

Portugal
Slovenia
Korea, Rep. of
Barbados
Cyprus

76.1
76.2
75.4
77.1
78.2

92.5
99.7
97.9
99.7
96.8

31
32
33
34
35

Malta
Czech Republic
Brunei Darussalam
Argentina
Seychelles

78.3
75.3
76.2
74.1
72.7

92.6
..
93.9
97.0
91.9

36
37
38
39
40

Estonia
Poland
Hungary
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Bahrain

71.6
73.8
71.7
70.0
73.9

41
42
43
44
45

Lithuania
Slovakia
Chile
Kuwait
Costa Rica

72.5
73.6
76.0
76.5
78.0

46
47
48
49
50

Uruguay
Qatar
Croatia
United Arab Emirates
Latvia

m

r

75.2
72.0
74.1
74.6
70.9

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

e
e
e
e, f, k

f, k
e, f, k
l

e
e, f, k
f, n
l

e
l

l

99.8
99.7
99.3
97.8
88.5

e, l

99.6
99.7
95.7
82.9
95.8

e, l

97.7
84.2
98.1
77.3
99.7

e, f, k
e, f, k
r

e, l
l

f, l
l

e, l

98
114
113
95
99

f

111
90
92
84
90

f, g

88
113
106
91
75

f

91
96
101
88
92

f

82
92
72
86
87

f

93
90
92
88
74

f

77
78
73
94
85

f

96
90
86
97
79

f

90
74
79
76
69

f

85
82
73
68
87

h

g, h
g, h
f
f

f
h
h
f

f, g
f, g
f
f, i

f
g, h
h
h

f
m

f
h
f
f

h

h

h
h
f

h
f
f

f

17,640
15,780
19,210
10,880
18,232

7,830
19,844
10,240
22,420
9,210

j

f

f, o

p, q

q
q

f, s

f, q

139

1 Human
development
index

HDI rank a

Life
expectancy
at birth
(years)
2002

51
52
53
54
55

67.1
76.7
73.3
71.4
73.9

Bahamas
Cuba
Mexico
Trinidad and Tobago
Antigua and Barbuda

r

Combined
gross enrolment
Adult ratio for primary,
literacy
secondary
rate
and tertiary
GDP
(% ages 15
schools
per capita
and above)
(%)
(PPP US$)
2002 b
2001/02 c
2002
95.5
96.9
90.5
98.5
85.8

f, k

l

f, n

74
78
74
64
69

f, t

76
88
97
70
70

f

73
88
82
69
69

f

64
74
71
68
84

y

h

r

Life
expectancy
index

Education
index

GDP
index

Human
development
index
(HDI)
value
2002

0.70
0.86
0.81
0.77
0.82

0.88
0.91
0.85
0.87
0.80

0.86
0.66
0.75
0.76
0.78

0.815
0.809
0.802
0.801
0.800

-16
39
5
1
-8

v

0.77
0.69
0.79
0.80
0.81

0.91
0.95
0.87
0.83
0.87

0.71
0.74
0.72
0.75
0.70

0.796
0.795
0.794
0.793
0.793

10
3
6
-2
15

q

0.83
0.75
0.72
0.78
0.81

0.86
0.95
0.93
0.79
0.89

0.69
0.67
0.71
0.78
0.65

0.791
0.790
0.787
0.785
0.781

18
24
5
-15
31

0.82
0.77
0.81
0.76
0.74

0.84
0.87
0.86
0.88
0.94

0.68
0.70
0.67
0.70
0.65

0.781
0.780
0.778
0.778
0.777

15
6
21
5
25

0.79
0.72
0.78
0.79
0.75

0.88
0.88
0.84
0.71
0.89

0.66
0.73
0.69
0.82
0.67

0.777
0.775
0.773
0.770
0.769

19
-9
4
-32
10

0.74
0.79
0.69
0.84
0.81

0.86
0.71
0.93
0.83
0.84

0.71
0.81
0.68
0.61
0.63

0.768
0.768
0.766
0.764
0.758

-9
-33
4
28
21

0.74
0.79
0.75
0.70
0.74

0.86
0.90
0.89
0.91
0.86

0.67
0.57
0.62
0.65
0.65

0.758
0.754
0.753
0.752
0.752

7
33
22
13
7

0.70
0.82
0.76
0.76
0.76

0.93
0.77
0.80
0.85
0.86

0.63
0.67
0.69
0.64
0.62

0.752
0.751
0.751
0.751
0.750

16
0
-12
9
14

3,210
6,760
7,280
4,580
5,640

0.78
0.79
0.67
0.76
0.80

0.88
0.74
0.85
0.83
0.76

0.58
0.70
0.72
0.64
0.67

0.746
0.745
0.745
0.745
0.743

23
-23
-28
5
-11

3,570
2,260
6,640
6,080
3,580

0.79
0.81
0.70
0.78
0.76

0.83
0.89
0.82
0.75
0.85

0.60
0.52
0.70
0.69
0.60

0.740
0.739
0.738
0.737
0.735

16
29
-27
-19
11

17,280
5,259
8,970
9,430
10,920

f
f, s, u

GDP
per capita
(PPP US$)
rank
minus
HDI rank d

Medium human development
56
57
58
59
60

Bulgaria
Russian Federation
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
Malaysia
Macedonia, TFYR

70.9
66.7
72.6
73.0
73.5

98.6
99.6
81.7
88.7
96.0

61
62
63
64
65

Panama
Belarus
Tonga
Mauritius
Albania

74.6
69.9
68.4
71.9
73.6

92.3
99.7
98.8
84.3
98.7

66
67
68
69
70

Bosnia and Herzegovina
Suriname
Venezuela
Romania
Ukraine

74.0
71.0
73.6
70.5
69.5

94.6
94.0
93.1
97.3
99.6

71
72
73
74
75

Saint Lucia
Brazil
Colombia
Oman
Samoa (Western)

72.4
68.0
72.1
72.3
69.8

94.8
86.4
92.1
74.4
98.7

f, n

e

l
w, x

e
l
l
l

w, x

l
e

l

76
77
78
79
80

Thailand
Saudi Arabia
Kazakhstan
Jamaica
Lebanon

69.1
72.1
66.2
75.6
73.5

92.6
77.9
99.4
87.6
86.5

l

81
82
83
84
85

Fiji
Armenia
Philippines
Maldives
Peru

69.6
72.3
69.8
67.2
69.7

92.9
99.4
92.6
97.2
85.0

f, l

86
87
88
89
90

Turkmenistan
St. Vincent & the Grenadines
Turkey
Paraguay
Jordan

66.9
74.0
70.4
70.7
70.9

98.8
83.1
86.5
91.6
90.9

f, l

91
92
93
94
95

Azerbaijan
Tunisia
Grenada
China
Dominica

72.1
72.7
65.3
70.9
73.1

97.0
73.2
94.4
90.9
76.4

w, x

Sri Lanka
Georgia
Dominican Republic
Belize
Ecuador

72.5
73.5
66.7
71.5
70.7

96
97
98
99
100

140

f, n

n

92.1
100.0
84.4
76.9
91.0

e
f, n
f, k

e, l
l

z

f, n
l
z

f, n
l
f, n

e, w, x

l
l

74
92
68
63
69

h
h
h
f

f

h

f

h

73
57
81
75
78

f

73
72
81
78
88

h

81
64
68
72
77

f, t

69
75
65
68
74
65
69
77
71
72

h

h

h

h
h
h

h
f
f
f
h

h
f
f, aa

7,130
8,230
7,570
9,120
6,470
6,170
5,520
6,850
10,810
4,830
5,970
6,590
5,380
6,560
4,870
5,300
7,770
6,370
13,340
5,600
7,010
12,650
5,870
3,980
4,360
5,440
3,120
4,170
4,798
5,010
4,300
5,460
6,390
4,610
4,220

f, o
p, q

q

q

q

f, p, q

f

q

q

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

1 Human
development
index

Combined
gross enrolment
Adult ratio for primary,
literacy
secondary
rate
and tertiary
GDP
(% ages 15
schools
per capita
and above)
(%)
(PPP US$)
2002 b
2001/02 c
2002

HDI rank a

Life
expectancy
at birth
(years)
2002

101
102
103
104
105

Iran, Islamic Rep. of
Occupied Palestinian Territories
El Salvador
Guyana
Cape Verde

70.1
72.3
70.6
63.2
70.0

77.1
90.2
79.7
96.5
75.7

106
107
108
109
110

Syrian Arab Republic
Uzbekistan
Algeria
Equatorial Guinea
Kyrgyzstan

71.7
69.5
69.5
49.1
68.4

82.9
99.3
68.9
84.2
97.0

111
112
113
114
115

Indonesia
Viet Nam
Moldova, Rep. of
Bolivia
Honduras

66.6
69.0
68.8
63.7
68.8

87.9
90.3
99.0
86.7
80.0

116
117
118
119
120

Tajikistan
Mongolia
Nicaragua
South Africa
Egypt

68.6
63.7
69.4
48.8
68.6

99.5
97.8
76.7
86.0
55.6

121
122
123
124
125

Guatemala
Gabon
São Tomé and Principe
Solomon Islands
Morocco

65.7
56.6
69.7
69.0
68.5

69.9
71.0
83.1
76.6
50.7

126
127
128
129
130

Namibia
India
Botswana
Vanuatu
Cambodia

45.3
63.7
41.4
68.6
57.4

83.3
61.3
78.9
34.0
69.4

131
132
133
134
135

Ghana
Myanmar
Papua New Guinea
Bhutan
Lao People’s Dem. Rep.

57.8
57.2
57.4
63.0
54.3

73.8
85.3
64.6
47.0
66.4

136
137
138
139
140
141

Comoros
Swaziland
Bangladesh
Sudan ae
Nepal
Cameroon

60.6
35.7
61.1
55.5
59.6
46.8

56.2
80.9
41.1
59.9
44.0
67.9

f, k,z
m

f, n

e

f, k
w, ac

f, l
e
l
l
e, l
l
z

f, l

w, x
m
m

l

m

f, k
w, x

z

69
79
66
75
73
59
76
70
58
81
65
64
62
86
62
73
70
65
77
76
56
74
62
50
57
71
55
70
59
59
46
48
41
..
59
45
61
54
36
61
56

f
h

h

h

h
f, aa

h

f, t
h
h

m

f

ad

h

6,690
..
4,890
4,260
5,000
3,620
1,670
5,760
30,130
1,620
3,230
2,300
1,470
2,460
2,600
980
1,710
2,470
10,070
3,810

ab
q
q
q

q
f,q

q

q
q

4,080
6,590
1,317
1,590
3,810

q

6,210
2,670
8,170
2,890
2,060

q

2,130
1,027
2,270
1,969
1,720

q

1,690
4,550
1,700
1,820
1,370
2,000

q

f,s
q

q

q
q

v
q
f,s

q

Life
expectancy
index

Education
index

GDP
index

Human
development
index
(HDI)
value
2002

GDP
per capita
(PPP US$)
rank
minus
HDI rank d

0.75
0.79
0.76
0.64
0.75

0.74
0.86
0.75
0.89
0.75

0.70
0.52
0.65
0.63
0.65

0.732
0.726
0.720
0.719
0.717

-31
21
-9
-1
-12

0.78
0.74
0.74
0.40
0.72

0.75
0.91
0.69
0.76
0.92

0.60
0.47
0.68
0.95
0.46

0.710
0.709
0.704
0.703
0.701

4
35
-25
-103
33

0.69
0.73
0.73
0.64
0.73

0.80
0.82
0.87
0.86
0.74

0.58
0.52
0.45
0.53
0.54

0.692
0.691
0.681
0.681
0.672

2
12
36
6
3

0.73
0.64
0.74
0.40
0.73

0.90
0.89
0.73
0.83
0.62

0.38
0.47
0.54
0.77
0.61

0.671
0.668
0.667
0.666
0.653

45
21
1
-66
-12

0.68
0.53
0.75
0.73
0.72

0.65
0.72
0.76
0.68
0.53

0.62
0.70
0.43
0.46
0.61

0.649
0.648
0.645
0.624
0.620

-15
-50
29
21
-17

0.34
0.64
0.27
0.73
0.54

0.79
0.59
0.76
0.42
0.66

0.69
0.55
0.73
0.56
0.50

0.607
0.595
0.589
0.570
0.568

-48
-10
-67
-13
1

0.55
0.54
0.54
0.63
0.49

0.65
0.73
0.57
0.48
0.64

0.51
0.39
0.52
0.50
0.47

0.568
0.551
0.542
0.536
0.534

-3
26
-8
0
2

0.59
0.18
0.60
0.51
0.58
0.36

0.53
0.74
0.45
0.52
0.50
0.64

0.47
0.64
0.47
0.48
0.44
0.50

0.530
0.519
0.509
0.505
0.504
0.501

4
-37
1
-3
11
-9

0.60
0.41
0.39
0.19
0.34

0.40
0.62
0.71
0.76
0.70

0.49
0.45
0.38
0.53
0.44

0.497
0.495
0.494
0.493
0.493

-7
5
17
-24
4

0.15
0.34
0.58
0.47
0.44

0.79
0.74
0.50
0.60
0.59

0.53
0.39
0.36
0.33
0.36

0.491
0.488
0.482
0.469
0.466

-25
11
16
20
15

Low human development
142
143
144
145
146

Pakistan
Togo
Congo
Lesotho
Uganda

60.8
49.9
48.3
36.3
45.7

41.5
59.6
82.8
81.4
68.9

147
148
149
150
151

Zimbabwe
Kenya
Yemen
Madagascar
Nigeria

33.9
45.2
59.8
53.4
51.6

90.0
84.3
49.0
67.3
66.8

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

f, l

z

f, k

37
67
48
65
71

f

58
53
53
45
45

h

h

f

f, t

1,940
1,480
980
2,420
1,390
2,400
1,020
870
740
860

q

q
q
f

141

1 Human
development
index

HDI rank a

Life
expectancy
at birth
(years)
2002

152
153
154
155
156

52.3
49.4
45.8
53.9
52.7

Mauritania
Haiti
Djibouti
Gambia
Eritrea

Combined
gross enrolment
Adult ratio for primary,
literacy
secondary
rate
and tertiary
GDP
(% ages 15
schools
per capita
and above)
(%)
(PPP US$)
2002 b
2001/02 c
2002
41.2
51.9
65.5
37.8
56.7

157
158
159
160
161

Senegal
Timor-Leste
Rwanda
Guinea
Benin

52.7
49.3
38.9
48.9
50.7

39.3
58.6
69.2
41.0
39.8

162
163
164
165
166

Tanzania, U. Rep. of
Côte d’Ivoire
Zambia
Malawi
Angola

43.5
41.2
32.7
37.8
40.1

77.1
49.7
79.9
61.8
42.0

f, k
f, k
f, k

f, m

w, x

f, k

w, ac

44
52
24
45
33

f, t

h

38
75
53
29
52

h

31
42
45
74
30

f

35
27
31
34
41

f

37
33
26
22
19
45

f

f
h

h
f

2,220
1,610
1,990
1,690
890
1,580
..
1,270
2,100
1,070
580
1,520
840
580
2,130

q
q
q
q
q

af
q

q

1,020
650
1,170
780
1,050

q

710
630
930
1,100
800
520

q

Life
expectancy
index

Education
index

GDP
index

Human
development
index
(HDI)
value
2002

GDP
per capita
(PPP US$)
rank
minus
HDI rank d

0.45
0.41
0.35
0.48
0.46

0.42
0.52
0.52
0.40
0.49

0.52
0.46
0.50
0.47
0.36

0.465
0.463
0.454
0.452
0.439

-25
-9
-21
-15
8

0.46
0.41
0.23
0.40
0.43

0.39
0.64
0.64
0.37
0.44

0.46
0.26
0.42
0.51
0.40

0.437
0.436
0.431
0.425
0.421

-11
19
-6
-30
-5

0.31
0.27
0.13
0.21
0.25

0.62
0.47
0.68
0.66
0.38

0.29
0.45
0.36
0.29
0.51

0.407
0.399
0.389
0.388
0.381

12
-16
3
9
-38

0.33
0.27
0.25
0.34
0.22

0.42
0.51
0.43
0.39
0.45

0.39
0.31
0.41
0.34
0.39

0.379
0.365
0.361
0.359
0.354

-8
4
-15
-1
-14

0.34
0.26
0.39
0.35
0.35
0.16

0.39
0.45
0.21
0.16
0.18
0.39

0.33
0.31
0.37
0.40
0.35
0.28

0.350
0.339
0.326
0.302
0.292
0.273

-1
0
-11
-20
-8
-1

167
168
169
170
171

Chad
Congo, Dem. Rep. of the
Central African Republic
Ethiopia
Mozambique

44.7
41.4
39.8
45.5
38.5

45.8
62.7
48.6
41.5
46.5

172
173
174
175
176
177

Guinea-Bissau
Burundi
Mali
Burkina Faso
Niger
Sierra Leone

45.2
40.8
48.5
45.8
46.0
34.3

39.6
50.4
19.0
12.8
17.1
36.0

Developing countries
Least developed countries
Arab States
East Asia and the Pacific
Latin America and the Caribbean
South Asia
Sub-Saharan Africa
Central & Eastern Europe & CIS
OECD
High-income OECD

64.6
50.6
66.3
69.8
70.5
63.2
46.3
69.5
77.1
78.3

76.7
52.5
63.3
90.3
88.6
57.6
63.2
99.3
..
..

60
43
60
65
81
54
44
79
87
93

4,054
1,307
5,069
4,768
7,223
2,658
1,790
7,192
24,904
29,000

0.66
0.43
0.69
0.75
0.76
0.64
0.35
0.74
0.87
0.89

0.71
0.49
0.61
0.83
0.86
0.57
0.56
0.93
0.94
0.97

0.62
0.42
0.65
0.64
0.72
0.55
0.48
0.72
0.92
0.95

0.663
0.446
0.651
0.740
0.777
0.584
0.465
0.796
0.911
0.935

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

High human development
Medium human development
Low human development

77.4
67.2
49.1

..
80.4
54.3

89
64
40

24,806
4,269
1,184

0.87
0.70
0.40

0.95
0.75
0.50

0.92
0.63
0.41

0.915
0.695
0.438

..
..
..

High income
Middle income
Low income

78.3
70.0
59.1

..
89.7
63.6

92
71
51

28,741
5,908
2,149

0.89
0.75
0.57

0.97
0.84
0.59

0.94
0.68
0.51

0.933
0.756
0.557

..
..
..

World

66.9

..

64

7,804

0.70

0.76

0.73

0.729

..

f, k
z

f, k

f, l
f, l

w, x

f, aa

f
h

f

q
q
q
q

q

q
q

Note: Aggregates for columns 5-8 are based on all data in the table. For detailed notes on the data, see Statistical feature 2, Note to table 1: About this year’s human development index.
a. The HDI rank is determined using HDI values to the fifth decimal point. b. Data refer to estimates produced by UNESCO Institute for Statistics in July 2002, unless otherwise specified. Due to differences in methodology and timeliness of underlying data, comparisons across countries and over time should be made with caution. c. Data refer to the 2001/02 school year, unless otherwise specified. Data for some countries may
refer to national or UNESCO Institute for Statistics estimates. For details, see http://www.uis.unesco.org/. Because data are from different sources, comparisons across countries should be made with caution. d. A positive figure indicates that the HDI rank is higher than the GDP per capita (PPP US$) rank, a negative the opposite. e. For purposes of calculating the HDI, a value of 99.0% was applied. f. Data refer to a year other than
that specified. g. For purposes of calculating the HDI, a value of 100% was applied. h. Preliminary UNESCO Institute for Statistics estimate, subject to further revision. i. The ratio is an underestimate, as many secondary
and tertiary students pursue their studies in nearby countries (see Statistical feature 2, Note to table 1: About this year’s human development index). j. For purposes of calculating the HDI, a value of $40,000 (PPP US$)
was applied. k. UNESCO Institute for Statistics 2003a. Data are subject to further revision. l. Census data. m. Data are from national sources. n. Data are from the Secretariat of the Caribbean Community, based on
national sources. o. World Bank 2003b. p. Preliminary World Bank estimate, subject to further revision. q. Estimate based on regression. r. Data are from the Secretariat of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States,
based on national sources. s. Aten, Heston, and Summers 2002. Data differ from the standard definition. t. Data refer to the 1999/2000 school year. They were provided by the UNESCO Institute for Statistics for Human
Development Report 2001 (see UNESCO Institute for Statistics 2001). u. Efforts to produce a more accurate and recent estimate are ongoing (see Statistical feature 2, Note to table 1: About this year’s human development index). v. Aten, Heston, and Summers 2001. Data differ from the standard definition. w. Data refer to a year or period other than that specified, differ from the standard definition or refer to only part of a country. x. UNICEF 2003b. y. UNDP 2002a. z. Survey data. aa. UNESCO Institute for Statistics 2003b. ab. In the absence of an estimate of GDP per capita (PPP US$), the Human Development Report Office estimate of
$2,302, derived using the value of GDP in US dollars and the weighted average ratio of PPP US dollars to US dollars in the Arab States, was used. ac. UNICEF 2000. ad. Because the combined gross enrolment ratio
was unavailable, the Human Development Report Office estimate of 49% was used. ae. Estimates are based primarily on information for northern Sudan. af. The estimated value of $478 was used (UNDP 2002b).
Source: Column 1: UN 2003, unless otherwise noted; column 2: UNESCO Institute for Statistics 2004a, unless otherwise noted; column 3: UNESCO Institute for Statistics 2004c, unless otherwise noted; column 4: World Bank
2004f, unless otherwise noted; aggregates calculated for the Human Development Report Office by the World Bank; column 5: calculated on the basis of data in column 1; column 6: calculated on the basis of data in columns
2 and 3; column 7: calculated on the basis of data in column 4; column 8: calculated on the basis of data in columns 5-7; see technical note 1 for details; column 9: calculated on the basis of data in columns 4 and 8.

142

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

2 Human
development
index trends

HDI rank

MONITORING HUMAN DEVELOPMENT: ENLARGING PEOPLE’S CHOICES . . .

1975

1980

1985

1990

1995

2000

2002

High human development
1
2
3
4
5

Norway
Sweden
Australia
Canada
Netherlands

0.866
0.863
0.847
0.869
0.865

0.886
0.873
0.864
0.885
0.877

0.897
0.885
0.877
0.908
0.891

0.911
0.895
0.892
0.928
0.907

0.935
0.928
0.932
0.933
0.927

0.954
0.943
0.942
0.939
0.938

0.956
0.946
0.946
0.943
0.942

6
7
8
9
10

Belgium
Iceland
United States
Japan
Ireland

0.845
0.862
0.866
0.854
0.810

0.862
0.885
0.886
0.879
0.825

0.876
0.895
0.899
0.894
0.844

0.897
0.913
0.914
0.910
0.869

0.927
0.919
0.926
0.924
0.893

0.940
0.939
0.935
0.934
0.926

0.942
0.941
0.939
0.938
0.936

11
12
13
14
15

Switzerland
United Kingdom
Finland
Austria
Luxembourg

0.878
0.845
0.839
0.842
0.838

0.889
0.853
0.859
0.856
0.850

0.895
0.862
0.876
0.870
0.856

0.909
0.883
0.899
0.893
0.882

0.918
0.921
0.913
0.913
0.908

0.932
0.932
0.933
0.931
0.928

0.936
0.936
0.935
0.934
0.933

16
17
18
19
20

France
Denmark
New Zealand
Germany
Spain

0.852
0.872
0.847
..
0.836

0.867
0.881
0.853
0.860
0.853

0.880
0.889
0.867
0.868
0.867

0.902
0.897
0.874
0.887
0.885

0.919
0.912
0.904
0.911
0.903

0.929
0.929
0.921
..
0.917

0.932
0.932
0.926
0.925
0.922

21
22
23
24
25

Italy
Israel
Hong Kong, China (SAR)
Greece
Singapore

0.841
0.794
0.760
0.832
0.724

0.856
0.818
0.799
0.847
0.761

0.865
0.839
0.826
0.860
0.784

0.887
0.857
0.862
0.870
0.821

0.904
0.880
0.879
0.875
0.859

0.915
0.907
..
0.894
..

0.920
0.908
0.903
0.902
0.902

26
27
28
29
30

Portugal
Slovenia
Korea, Rep. of
Barbados
Cyprus

0.785
..
0.705
0.804
..

0.800
..
0.741
0.827
0.791

0.823
..
0.779
0.837
0.812

0.847
..
0.817
0.851
0.835

0.876
0.852
0.852
0.859
0.855

0.892
0.883
0.878
0.888
0.880

0.897
0.895
0.888
0.888
0.883

31
32
33
34
35

Malta
Czech Republic
Brunei Darussalam
Argentina
Seychelles

0.726
..
..
0.784
..

0.763
..
..
0.799
..

0.789
..
..
0.808
..

0.824
..
..
0.810
..

0.850
0.843
..
0.832
..

0.873
0.856
..
0.854
..

0.875
0.868
0.867
0.853
0.853

36
37
38
39
40

Estonia
Poland
Hungary
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Bahrain

..
..
0.777
..
..

..
..
0.793
..
0.746

..
..
0.807
..
0.779

0.817
0.802
0.807
..
0.808

0.796
0.816
0.810
..
0.825

0.839
0.843
0.837
..
0.835

0.853
0.850
0.848
0.844
0.843

41
42
43
44
45

Lithuania
Slovakia
Chile
Kuwait
Costa Rica

..
..
0.703
0.761
0.745

..
..
0.738
0.776
0.770

..
..
0.761
0.778
0.774

0.823
..
0.784
..
0.791

0.789
..
0.814
0.810
0.810

0.829
..
0.835
0.834
0.829

0.842
0.842
0.839
0.838
0.834

46
47
48
49
50

Uruguay
Qatar
Croatia
United Arab Emirates
Latvia

0.759
..
..
0.744
..

0.779
..
..
0.777
0.795

0.785
..
..
0.785
0.807

0.803
..
0.806
0.805
0.807

0.816
..
0.798
0.803
0.765

..
..
0.823
..
0.808

0.833
0.833
0.830
0.824
0.823

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

143

2 Human
development
index trends

HDI rank
51
52
53
54
55

Bahamas
Cuba
Mexico
Trinidad and Tobago
Antigua and Barbuda

1975

1980

1985

1990

1995

2000

2002

..
..
0.688
0.735
..

0.809
..
0.734
0.768
..

0.820
..
0.753
0.786
..

0.825
..
0.761
0.791
..

0.812
..
0.776
0.793
..

..
..
0.800
0.806
..

0.815
0.809
0.802
0.801
0.800

Medium human development
56
57
58
59
60

Bulgaria
Russian Federation
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
Malaysia
Macedonia, TFYR

..
..
..
0.614
..

0.768
..
..
0.657
..

0.788
..
..
0.693
..

0.795
0.813
..
0.720
..

0.784
0.771
..
0.759
..

0.791
..
..
0.789
..

0.796
0.795
0.794
0.793
0.793

61
62
63
64
65

Panama
Belarus
Tonga
Mauritius
Albania

0.708
..
..
..
..

0.735
..
..
0.658
..

0.746
..
..
0.689
0.691

0.748
0.785
..
0.723
0.702

0.771
0.752
..
0.747
0.702

0.791
0.775
..
0.775
0.740

0.791
0.790
0.787
0.785
0.781

66
67
68
69
70

Bosnia and Herzegovina
Suriname
Venezuela
Romania
Ukraine

..
..
0.716
..
..

..
..
0.730
..
..

..
..
0.739
..
..

..
..
0.759
0.771
0.798

..
..
0.768
0.769
0.751

..
..
0.776
0.773
0.762

0.781
0.780
0.778
0.778
0.777

71
72
73
74
75

Saint Lucia
Brazil
Colombia
Oman
Samoa (Western)

..
0.644
0.661
0.493
..

..
0.680
0.689
0.546
..

..
0.695
0.706
0.640
..

..
0.714
0.727
0.696
..

..
0.739
0.751
0.733
0.741

..
0.771
0.771
0.761
0.762

0.777
0.775
0.773
0.770
0.769

76
77
78
79
80

Thailand
Saudi Arabia
Kazakhstan
Jamaica
Lebanon

0.613
0.602
..
0.687
..

0.651
0.656
..
0.695
..

0.676
0.671
..
0.699
..

0.707
0.707
0.767
0.726
0.673

0.742
0.741
0.725
0.737
0.732

..
0.764
0.744
0.752
0.752

0.768
0.768
0.766
0.764
0.758

81
82
83
84
85

Fiji
Armenia
Philippines
Maldives
Peru

0.659
..
0.653
..
0.642

0.683
..
0.686
..
0.672

0.698
..
0.692
..
0.696

0.722
0.751
0.719
..
0.706

0.744
0.708
0.735
..
0.733

0.751
..
..
..
..

0.758
0.754
0.753
0.752
0.752

86
87
88
89
90

Turkmenistan
St. Vincent & the Grenadines
Turkey
Paraguay
Jordan

..
..
0.590
0.667
..

..
..
0.614
0.701
0.639

..
..
0.651
0.708
0.663

..
..
0.683
0.719
0.682

..
..
0.713
0.738
0.707

..
..
..
0.751
0.741

0.752
0.751
0.751
0.751
0.750

91
92
93
94
95

Azerbaijan
Tunisia
Grenada
China
Dominica

..
0.516
..
0.523
..

..
0.574
..
0.557
..

..
0.623
..
0.593
..

..
0.656
..
0.627
..

..
0.696
..
0.683
..

..
0.734
..
0.721
..

0.746
0.745
0.745
0.745
0.743

Sri Lanka
Georgia
Dominican Republic
Belize
Ecuador

0.613
..
0.617
..
0.630

0.648
..
0.648
0.707
0.674

0.674
..
0.670
0.717
0.696

0.698
..
0.678
0.747
0.710

0.719
..
0.699
0.768
0.719

..
..
0.731
0.773
..

0.740
0.739
0.738
0.737
0.735

96
97
98
99
100

144

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

2 Human
development
index trends

HDI rank

1975

1980

1985

1990

1995

2000

2002

101
102
103
104
105

Iran, Islamic Rep. of
Occupied Palestinian Territories
El Salvador
Guyana
Cape Verde

0.565
..
0.590
0.677
..

0.569
..
0.590
0.683
..

0.610
..
0.610
0.679
..

0.649
..
0.648
0.697
0.623

0.693
..
0.686
0.706
0.675

0.723
..
0.713
0.724
..

0.732
0.726
0.720
0.719
0.717

106
107
108
109
110

Syrian Arab Republic
Uzbekistan
Algeria
Equatorial Guinea
Kyrgyzstan

0.534
..
0.504
..
..

0.576
..
0.554
..
..

0.611
..
0.603
0.483
..

0.635
..
0.642
0.504
..

0.663
0.687
0.664
0.528
..

0.683
..
0.693
0.670
..

0.710
0.709
0.704
0.703
0.701

111
112
113
114
115

Indonesia
Viet Nam
Moldova, Rep. of
Bolivia
Honduras

0.467
..
..
0.512
0.517

0.529
..
..
0.548
0.568

0.582
..
..
0.580
0.599

0.623
0.610
0.736
0.603
0.624

0.662
0.649
0.684
0.635
0.646

0.680
0.686
0.673
0.670
..

0.692
0.691
0.681
0.681
0.672

116
117
118
119
120

Tajikistan
Mongolia
Nicaragua
South Africa
Egypt

..
..
0.565
0.655
0.438

..
..
0.576
0.672
0.487

0.719
0.650
0.584
0.697
0.539

0.719
0.656
0.589
0.729
0.577

0.651
0.629
0.624
0.735
0.608

0.655
0.658
0.643
0.690
..

0.671
0.668
0.667
0.666
0.653

121
122
123
124
125

Guatemala
Gabon
São Tomé and Principe
Solomon Islands
Morocco

0.510
..
..
..
0.429

0.546
..
..
..
0.474

0.559
..
..
..
0.510

0.583
..
..
..
0.542

0.613
..
..
..
0.571

0.642
..
..
..
0.603

0.649
0.648
0.645
0.624
0.620

126
127
128
129
130

Namibia
India
Botswana
Vanuatu
Cambodia

..
0.411
0.503
..
..

..
0.437
0.574
..
..

..
0.476
0.633
..
..

..
0.514
0.675
..
..

0.667
0.548
0.666
..
0.540

0.625
0.579
0.620
..
0.551

0.607
0.595
0.589
0.570
0.568

131
132
133
134
135

Ghana
Myanmar
Papua New Guinea
Bhutan
Lao People’s Dem. Rep.

0.439
..
0.423
..
..

0.467
..
0.444
..
..

0.481
..
0.465
..
0.422

0.511
..
0.482
..
0.449

0.532
..
0.522
..
0.485

0.560
..
0.540
..
0.520

0.568
0.551
0.542
0.536
0.534

136
137
138
139
140
141

Comoros
Swaziland
Bangladesh
Sudan
Nepal
Cameroon

..
0.516
0.345
0.344
0.291
0.415

0.479
0.544
0.363
0.372
0.330
0.462

0.498
0.565
0.388
0.394
0.372
0.504

0.501
0.611
0.417
0.427
0.418
0.519

0.509
0.606
0.445
0.465
0.455
0.508

0.521
0.548
0.497
0.492
0.488
..

0.530
0.519
0.509
0.505
0.504
0.501

Low human development
142
143
144
145
146

Pakistan
Togo
Congo
Lesotho
Uganda

0.346
0.396
0.451
0.457
..

0.373
0.445
0.497
0.499
..

0.405
0.445
0.541
0.517
0.395

0.444
0.474
0.532
0.544
0.395

0.473
0.486
0.530
0.549
0.404

..
0.491
0.487
0.513
..

0.497
0.495
0.494
0.493
0.493

147
148
149
150
151

Zimbabwe
Kenya
Yemen
Madagascar
Nigeria

0.547
0.445
..
0.400
0.324

0.572
0.490
..
0.433
0.385

0.629
0.515
..
0.429
0.401

0.617
0.540
0.392
0.436
0.430

0.571
0.524
0.435
0.443
0.455

0.511
0.496
0.469
0.469
..

0.491
0.488
0.482
0.469
0.466

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

145

2 Human
development
index trends

HDI rank

1975

1980

1985

1990

1995

2000

2002

152
153
154
155
156

Mauritania
Haiti
Djibouti
Gambia
Eritrea

0.339
..
..
0.283
..

0.362
0.443
..
..
..

0.382
0.459
..
..
..

0.387
0.455
..
..
..

0.423
0.448
0.450
0.418
0.410

0.449
..
0.452
0.448
0.430

0.465
0.463
0.454
0.452
0.439

157
158
159
160
161

Senegal
Timor-Leste
Rwanda
Guinea
Benin

0.315
..
0.341
..
0.288

0.332
..
0.386
..
0.324

0.359
..
0.397
..
0.351

0.382
..
0.351
..
0.356

0.398
..
0.341
..
0.381

0.425
..
0.413
..
0.406

0.437
0.436
0.431
0.425
0.421

162
163
164
165
166

Tanzania, U. Rep. of
Côte d’Ivoire
Zambia
Malawi
Angola

..
0.382
0.466
0.315
..

..
0.416
0.474
0.347
..

..
0.428
0.485
0.360
..

0.413
0.429
0.466
0.368
..

0.406
0.410
0.418
0.408
..

0.403
0.402
0.389
0.395
..

0.407
0.399
0.389
0.388
0.381

167
168
169
170
171

Chad
Congo, Dem. Rep. of the
Central African Republic
Ethiopia
Mozambique

0.260
0.410
0.334
..
..

0.260
0.418
0.351
..
0.298

0.301
0.425
0.373
0.281
0.286

0.326
0.414
0.375
0.305
0.310

0.335
0.380
0.366
0.319
0.318

0.363
..
..
0.345
0.342

0.379
0.365
0.361
0.359
0.354

172
173
174
175
176
177

Guinea-Bissau
Burundi
Mali
Burkina Faso
Niger
Sierra Leone

0.254
0.282
0.232
0.239
0.237
..

0.262
0.306
0.262
0.262
0.257
..

0.282
0.332
0.269
0.287
0.250
..

0.311
0.338
0.288
0.302
0.259
..

0.339
0.311
0.309
0.312
0.265
..

0.354
0.325
..
0.323
0.279
..

0.350
0.339
0.326
0.302
0.292
0.273

Note: The human development index values in this table were calculated using a consistent methodology and data series. They are not strictly comparable with those in earlier Human Development Reports. For detailed
discussion, see Statistical feature 2, Note to table 1: About this year’s human development index.
Source: Columns 1-6: calculated on the basis of data on life expectancy from UN 2003; data on adult literacy rates from UNESCO Institute for Statistics 2003a; data on combined gross enrolment ratios from UNESCO
1999 and UNESCO Institute for Statistics 2004c; and data on GDP per capita (1995 PPP US$) and GDP per capita (current PPP US$) from World Bank 2004f; column 7: column 8 of table 1.

146

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

3 Human and
income poverty
Developing countries

HDI rank

MONITORING HUMAN DEVELOPMENT: ENLARGING PEOPLE’S CHOICES . . .
Population
MDG
Probability
without
Children
MDG
at birth
Adult
sustainable
under
Population below
of not
illiteracy access to an weight
income poverty line
Human poverty index surviving
rate b, †
improved for age †
(%)
(HPI-1)
to age 40 a, † (% ages 15 water source † (% under
National
Value
(% of cohort) and above)
(%)
age 5)
$1 a day d $2 a day e poverty line
Rank
(%)
2000-05
2002
2000
1995-2002 c 1990-2002 c 1990-2002 c 1990-2001 c

HPI-1
rank
minus
income
poverty
rank f

High human development
23
25
28
29
30

Hong Kong, China (SAR)
Singapore
Korea, Rep. of
Barbados
Cyprus

..
6
..
1
..

..
6.3
..
2.5
..

1.8
1.9
3.4
2.6
2.9

6.5
7.5
2.1
0.3
3.2

g

33
34
35
39
40

Brunei Darussalam
Argentina
Seychelles
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Bahrain

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

2.8
5.1
..
..
4.0

6.1
3.0
8.1
..
11.5

h

43
44
45
46
47

Chile
Kuwait
Costa Rica
Uruguay
Qatar

3
..
4
2
..

4.1
..
4.4
3.6
..

4.1
2.6
3.7
4.4
5.1

4.3
17.1
4.2
2.3
15.8

h

49
51
52
53
54
55

United Arab Emirates
Bahamas
Cuba
Mexico
Trinidad and Tobago
Antigua and Barbuda

..
..
5
12
8
..

..
..
5.0
9.1
7.7
..

3.4
16.0
4.1
7.6
9.1
..

22.7
4.5
3.1
9.5
1.5
..

h
g

h

h

h, j

g

h

..
0
8
0
0

..
14
..
6
..

..
..
<2
..
..

..
..
<2
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
2
..

..
5
6
..
9

..
3.3
..
..
..

..
14.3
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

7
..
5
2
..

1
10
5
5
6

<2
..
2.0
<2
..

9.6
..
9.5
3.9
..

17.0
..
22.0
..
..

1
..
-10
0
..

..
3
9
12
10
9

14
..
4
8
7
10

..
..
..
9.9
12.4
..

..
..
..
26.3
39.0
..

..
..
..
10.1
21.0
..

..
..
..
-12
-17
..

28
..
10
0
0

5
12
7
..
15

..
<2
7.2
..
..

..
9.3
17.6
..
..

..
15.5
37.3
..
..

18
17
2
13
9

13
5
14
6
7

i

..
15.0
..
8.2
8.2

..
32.0
..
22.4
22.6

..
31.3
..
17.4
64.0

61
1
16
5
8

24
..
19
14
6

i

..
..
<2
..
<2

..
..
32.5
..
13.3

..
..
13.1
..
18.7

..
..
15
..
9

0
53
14
0
20

3
8
28
30
7

..
..
14.6
..
18.1

..
..
46.4
..
37.7

..
..
36.8
..
49.0

..
..
-5
..
-19

7
18
22
4
20

..
8
5
5
4

..
<2
14.9
<2
<2

..
10.3
30.3
7.4
6.6

..
..
21.8
11.7
7.6

..
12
-16
3
28

5
25
3
23
14

..
11
5
29
5

..
16.6
..
6.6
<2

..
46.7
..
45.4
<2

..
4.6
..
25.0
28.6

..
-14
..
11
18

i

i

i

i
i

k

Medium human development
58
59
61
63
64

Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
Malaysia
Panama
Tonga
Mauritius

29
..
9
..
16

15.3
..
7.7
..
11.3

4.5
4.2
6.8
8.9
4.6

18.3
11.3
7.7
1.2
15.7

67
68
71
72
73

Suriname
Venezuela
Saint Lucia
Brazil
Colombia

..
11
..
18
10

..
8.5
..
11.8
8.1

6.5
5.9
5.7
11.5
8.4

..
6.9
..
13.6
7.9

74
75
76
77
79

Oman
Samoa (Western)
Thailand
Saudi Arabia
Jamaica

50
..
22
30
13

31.5
..
13.1
15.8
9.2

5.0
6.6
10.2
5.2
4.9

25.6
1.3
7.4
22.1
12.4

80
81
83
84
85

Lebanon
Fiji
Philippines
Maldives
Peru

14
42
28
17
23

9.5
21.3
15.0
11.4
13.2

4.3
5.4
7.4
10.2
10.2

13.5
7.1
7.4
2.8
15.0

87
88
89
90
92

St. Vincent & the Grenadines
Turkey
Paraguay
Jordan
Tunisia

..
19
15
7
39

..
12.0
10.6
7.2
19.2

3.9
8.0
8.0
6.6
4.9

..
13.5
8.4
9.1
26.8

93
94
95
96
98

Grenada
China
Dominica
Sri Lanka
Dominican Republic

..
24
..
36
26

..
13.2
..
18.2
13.7

..
7.1
..
5.1
14.6

..
9.1
..
7.9
15.6

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

h

h
h

h

h

g
h, j
h

l

h
l

h

i

i

i

k

k

..
..
-11
..
..
..
-20
..
-7
-13

147

3 Human and
income poverty
Developing countries

HDI rank

Population
MDG
Probability
without
Children
MDG
at birth
Adult
sustainable
under
Population below
of not
illiteracy access to an weight
income poverty line
Human poverty index surviving
rate b, †
improved for age †
(%)
(HPI-1)
to age 40 a, † (% ages 15 water source † (% under
National
Value
(% of cohort) and above)
(%)
age 5)
$1 a day d $2 a day e poverty line
Rank
(%)
2000-05
2002
2000
1995-2002 c 1990-2002 c 1990-2002 c 1990-2001 c

99
100
101
102
103

Belize
Ecuador
Iran, Islamic Rep. of
Occupied Palestinian Territories
El Salvador

33
20
31
..
34

16.7
12.0
16.4
..
17.0

11.3
10.3
7.0
5.2
9.9

23.1
9.0
22.9
..
20.3

h

104
105
106
108
109

Guyana
Cape Verde
Syrian Arab Republic
Algeria
Equatorial Guinea

21
40
25
43
54

12.9
19.7
13.7
21.9
32.7

17.6
7.6
5.7
9.3
36.4

1.4
24.3
17.1
31.1
15.8

g

111
112
114
115
117

Indonesia
Viet Nam
Bolivia
Honduras
Mongolia

35
41
27
32
38

17.8
20.0
14.4
16.6
19.1

10.8
10.7
16.0
13.8
13.0

12.1
9.7
13.3
20.0
2.2

118
119
120
121
122

Nicaragua
South Africa
Egypt
Guatemala
Gabon

37
52
47
44
..

18.3
31.7
30.9
22.5
..

10.3
44.9
8.6
14.1
28.1

23.3
14.0
44.4
30.1
..

123
124
125
126
127

São Tomé and Principe
Solomon Islands
Morocco
Namibia
India

..
..
56
64
48

..
..
34.5
37.7
31.4

10.0
6.8
9.4
52.3
15.3

..
..
49.3
16.7
38.7

128
129
130
131
132

Botswana
Vanuatu
Cambodia
Ghana
Myanmar

76
..
74
46
45

43.5
..
42.6
26.0
25.4

61.9
7.3
24.0
25.8
24.6

21.1
..
30.6
26.2
14.7

133
134
135
136
137

Papua New Guinea
Bhutan
Lao People’s Dem. Rep.
Comoros
Swaziland

62
..
66
49
..

37.0
..
40.3
31.4
..

19.0
17.3
27.9
18.1
70.5

35.4
..
33.6
43.8
19.1

138
139
140
141

Bangladesh
Sudan
Nepal
Cameroon

72
51
69
61

42.2
31.6
41.2
36.9

17.3
27.6
19.3
44.2

58.9
40.1
56.0
32.1

h
g, j, l

g

h, j
h
h
h
l

h, j

h

g

l

8
15
8
14
23

6
15
11
4
12

6
26
20
11
56

14
14
7
6
19

22
23
17
12
40

i

HPI-1
rank
minus
income
poverty
rank f

..
17.7
<2
..
31.1

..
40.8
7.3
..
58.0

..
35.0
..
..
48.3

..
-20
21
..
-21

<2
..
..
<2
..

6.1
..
..
15.1
..

35.0
..
..
12.2
..

14
..
..
30
..

26
33
10
17
13

7.5
17.7
14.4
23.8
13.9

52.4
63.7
34.3
44.4
50.0

27.1
50.9
62.7
53.0
36.3

7
-5
-5
-17
4

23
14
3
8
14

10
12
11
24
12

45.1
7.1
3.1
16.0
..

79.9
23.8
43.9
37.4
..

47.9
..
16.7
56.2
..

-31
20
20
1
..

..
29
20
23
16

13
21
9
24
47

..
..
<2
34.9
34.7

..
..
14.3
55.8
79.9

..
..
19.0
..
28.6

..
..
36
-5
-12

5
12
70
27
28

13
20
45
25
35

23.5
..
34.1
44.8
..

50.1
..
77.7
78.5
..

..
..
36.1
39.5
..

11
..
3
-23
..

58
38
63
4
..

35
19
40
25
10

..
..
26.3
..
..

..
..
73.2
..
..

37.5
..
38.6
..
40.0

..
..
1
..
..

3
25
12
42

48
17
48
21

36.0
..
37.7
17.1

82.8
..
82.5
50.6

49.8
..
42.0
40.2

-3
..
-7
8

10
46
49
22
48

38
25
14
18
23

13.4
..
..
36.4
..

65.6
..
..
56.1
..

32.6
32.3
..
..
44.0

17
43
31
53
38

13
21
46
33
36

36.0
23.0
15.7
49.1
70.2

64.2
58.6
45.2
83.3
90.8

34.9
52.0
41.8
71.3
34.1

i

i

i

i

Low human development
142
143
144
145
146

Pakistan
Togo
Congo
Lesotho
Uganda

71
65
53
85
60

41.9
38.0
31.9
47.9
36.4

17.8
37.9
39.3
68.1
41.1

58.5
40.4
17.2
18.6
31.1

147
148
149
150
151

Zimbabwe
Kenya
Yemen
Madagascar
Nigeria

91
63
67
58
57

52.0
37.5
40.3
35.9
35.1

74.8
49.5
19.1
29.0
34.9

10.0
15.7
51.0
32.7
33.2

148

h, j

l

g

i

k

24
..
..
6
..
12
4
15
-20
-27

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

3 Human and
income poverty

Population
MDG
Probability
without
Children
MDG
at birth
Adult
sustainable
under
Population below
of not
illiteracy access to an weight
income poverty line
Human poverty index surviving
rate b, †
improved for age †
(%)
(HPI-1)
to age 40 a, † (% ages 15 water source † (% under
National
Value
(% of cohort) and above)
(%)
age 5)
$1 a day d $2 a day e poverty line
Rank
(%)
2000-05
2002
2000
1995-2002 c 1990-2002 c 1990-2002 c 1990-2001 c

Developing countries

HDI rank
152
153
154
155
156

Mauritania
Haiti
Djibouti
Gambia
Eritrea

87
68
55
81
70

48.3
41.1
34.3
45.8
41.8

30.5
37.3
42.9
29.6
27.5

58.8
48.1
34.5
62.2
43.3

157
158
159
160
161

Senegal
Timor-Leste
Rwanda
Guinea
Benin

77
..
78
..
80

44.1
..
44.7
..
45.7

27.7
33.0
54.3
35.9
34.6

60.7
..
30.8
..
60.2

162
163
164
165
166

Tanzania, U. Rep. of
Côte d’Ivoire
Zambia
Malawi
Angola

59
79
90
83
..

36.0
45.0
50.4
46.8
..

46.4
51.7
70.1
59.6
49.2

22.9
50.3
20.1
38.2
..

167
168
169
170
171

Chad
Congo, Dem. Rep. of the
Central African Republic
Ethiopia
Mozambique

88
75
84
92
89

49.6
42.9
47.7
55.5
49.8

42.9
47.2
55.3
43.3
56.0

54.2
37.3
51.4
58.5
53.5

172
173
174
175
176
177

Guinea-Bissau
Burundi
Mali
Burkina Faso
Niger
Sierra Leone

86
82
93
95
94
..

48.0
45.8
58.9
65.5
61.4
..

41.3
50.5
35.3
43.4
38.7
57.5

60.4
49.6
81.0
87.2
82.9
..

g
g
g

g

g
l

g

h, j
h, j

HPI-1
rank
minus
income
poverty
rank f

63
54
0
38
54

32
17
18
17
44

25.9
..
..
59.3
..

63.1
..
..
82.9
..

46.3
65.0
45.1
64.0
53.0

22
..
59
52
37

23
43
27
23
23

26.3
..
35.7
..
..

67.8
..
84.6
..
..

33.4
..
51.2
40.0
33.0

9
..
3
..
..

32
19
36
43
62

29
21
28
25
31

19.9
15.5
63.7
41.7
..

59.7
50.4
87.4
76.1
..

35.7
36.8
72.9
65.3
..

3
24
-2
1
..

73
55
30
76
43

28
31
24
47
26

..
..
66.6
26.3
37.9

..
..
84.0
80.7
78.4

64.0
..
..
44.2
69.4

..
..
-7
20
6

44
22
35
58
41
43

25
45
33
34
40
27

..
58.4
72.8
44.9
61.4
57.0

..
89.2
90.6
81.0
85.3
74.5

48.7
..
63.8
45.3
63.0
68.0

..
-5
-2
9
3
..

k

k
k

18
..
..
-7
..

† Denotes indicators used to calculate the human poverty index (HPI-1). For further details, see technical note 1.
a. Data refer to the probability at birth of not surviving to age 40, multiplied by 100. They are medium-variant projections for the period specified. b. Data refer to estimates produced by UNESCO Institute
for Statistics in July 2002, unless otherwise specified. Due to differences in methodology and timeliness of underlying data, comparisons across countries and over time should be made with caution. c. Data refer to the
most recent year available during the period specified. d. Poverty line is equivalent to $1.08 (1993 PPP US$). e. Poverty line is equivalent to $2.15 (1993 PPP US$). f. Income poverty refers to the percentage of the population living on less than $1 a day. All countries with an income poverty rate of less than 2% were given equal rank. The rankings are based on countries for which data are available for both indicators. A positive figure
indicates that the country performs better in income poverty than in human poverty, a negative the opposite. g. UNESCO Institute for Statistics 2003a. Data are subject to revision. h. Census data. i. Data refer to a year
or period other than that specified, differ from the standard definition or refer to only part of a country. j. Data refer to a year between 1995 and 1999. k. Data refer to a period other than that specified. l. Survey data.
Source: Column 1: determined on the basis of the HPI-1 values in column 2; column 2: calculated on the basis of data in columns 3-6, see technical note 1 for details; column 3: UN 2003; column 4: UNESCO Institute
for Statistics 2004a; columns 5 and 6: UNICEF 2003b; columns 7-9: World Bank 2004f; column 10: calculated on the basis of data in columns 1 and 7.

HPI-1 ranks for
95 developing countries
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

Barbados
Uruguay
Chile
Costa Rica
Cuba
Singapore
Jordan
Trinidad and Tobago
Panama
Colombia
Venezuela
Mexico
Jamaica
Lebanon
Paraguay
Mauritus
Maldives

18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37

Brazil
Turkey
Ecuador
Guyana
Thailand
Peru
China
Syrian Arab Republic
Dominican Republic
Bolivia
Philippines
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
Saudi Arabia
Iran, Islamic Rep.
Honduras
Belize
El Salvador
Indonesia
Sri Lanka
Nicaragua

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57

Mongolia
Tunisia
Cape Verde
Viet Nam
Fiji
Algeria
Guatemala
Myanmar
Ghana
Egypt
India
Comoros
Oman
Sudan
South Africa
Congo
Equatorial Guinea
Djibouti
Morocco
Nigeria

58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
77

Madagascar
Tanzania, U. Rep. of
Uganda
Cameroon
Papua New Guinea
Kenya
Namibia
Togo
Lao People’s Dem. Rep.
Yemen
Haiti
Nepal
Eritrea
Pakistan
Bangladesh
Iraq
Cambodia
Congo, Dem. Rep. of the
Botswana
Senegal

78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95

Rwanda
Côte d’Ivoire
Benin
Gambia
Burundi
Malawi
Central African Republic
Lesotho
Guinea-Bissau
Mauritania
Chad
Mozambique
Zambia
Zimbabwe
Ethiopia
Mali
Niger
Burkina Faso

149

MONITORING HUMAN DEVELOPMENT: ENLARGING PEOPLE’S CHOICES . . .

4 Human and
income poverty
OECD, Central &
Eastern Europe & CIS
Human poverty index
(HPI-2) a
Value
Rank
(%)

HDI rank

Probability
at birth
of not
surviving
to age 60 b, †
(% of cohort)
2000-05

People
lacking
Population below
functional
income poverty line
literacy
Long-term
(%)
skills † unemployment d, † 50% of
(% ages
(% of
median
16-65)
labour force)
income e, †
$11 a day
$4 a day
1994-98 c
2002
1990-2000 f
1994-95 f, g
1996-99 f, h

HPI-2
rank
minus
income
poverty
rank i

High human development
1
2
3
4
5

Norway
Sweden
Australia
Canada
Netherlands

2
1
14
12
3

7.1
6.5
12.9
12.2
8.2

8.3
7.3
8.8
8.7
8.7

8.5
7.5
17.0
16.6
10.5

6
7
8
9
10

Belgium
Iceland
United States
Japan
Ireland

13
..
17
10
16

12.4
..
15.8
11.1
15.3

9.4
7.6
12.6
7.5
9.3

18.4
..
20.7
..
22.6

11
12
13
14
15

Switzerland
United Kingdom
Finland
Austria
Luxembourg

..
15
4
..
7

..
14.8
8.4
..
10.5

9.1
8.9
10.2
9.5
9.7

..
21.8
10.4
..
..

j

k

k

0.2
1.1
1.3
0.7
0.8

6.4
6.5
14.3
12.8
7.3

4.3
6.3
17.6
7.4
7.1

..
..
..
..
..

-1
-3
-2
-3
-2

3.4
0.4
0.5
1.7
1.2

8.0
..
17.0
11.8
12.3

..
..
13.6
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

7
..
0
-1
4

0.6
1.2
2.2
0.8
0.7

9.3
12.5
5.4
8.0
6.0

..
15.7
4.8
..
0.3

..
..
..
..
..

..
2
3
..
5

3.0
0.8
0.7
4.1
4.6

8.0
9.2
..
8.3
10.1

9.9
..
..
7.3
..

..
..
..
..
..

2
-4
..
-2
-1

5.3
..
5.0
1.8
..

12.7
13.5
..
..
8.2

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
<1

-3
..
..
..
..

m

l

8
5
..
6
9

10.8
9.1
..
10.3
11.0

10.0
11.0
9.8
9.2
8.8

..
9.6
18.4
14.4
..

k

11
..
..
..
..

11.6
..
..
..
..

8.6
7.4
9.1
11.7
11.8

..
..
..
48.0
42.2

k

Malta
Czech Republic
Estonia
Poland
Hungary

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

7.7
12.2
20.4
15.6
19.6

..
15.7
..
42.6
33.8

..
3.7
..
9.6
2.6

..
4.9
12.4
8.6
6.7

..
..
..
..
..

..
<1
18
10
<1

..
..
..
..
..

Lithuania
Slovakia
Croatia
Latvia

..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..

19.5
15.2
14.5
21.4

..
..
..
..

..
11.1
..
..

..
7.0
..
..

..
..
..
..

17
8
..
28

..
..
..
..

16
17
18
19
20

France
Denmark
New Zealand
Germany
Spain

21
22
24
26
27

Italy
Israel
Greece
Portugal
Slovenia

31
32
36
37
38
41
42
48
50

k

Medium human development
56
57
60
62
65

Bulgaria
Russian Federation
Macedonia, TFYR
Belarus
Albania

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

18.6
28.9
13.3
22.8
11.3

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
18.8
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

22
53
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

66
69
70
78
82

Bosnia and Herzegovina
Romania
Ukraine
Kazakhstan
Armenia

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

13.7
20.3
23.0
27.0
14.9

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
8.1
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
23
25
62
..

..
..
..
..
..

150

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

4 Human and
income poverty
OECD, Central &
Eastern Europe & CIS
Human poverty index
(HPI-2) a
Value
Rank
(%)

HDI rank
86
91
97
107
110

Turkmenistan
Azerbaijan
Georgia
Uzbekistan
Kyrgyzstan

113 Moldova, Rep. of
116 Tajikistan

Probability
at birth
of not
surviving
to age 60 b, †
(% of cohort)
2000-05

People
lacking
Population below
functional
income poverty line
literacy
Long-term
(%)
skills † unemployment d, † 50% of
(% ages
(% of
median
16-65)
labour force)
income e, †
$11 a day
$4 a day
1994-98 c
2002
1990-2000 f
1994-95 f, g
1996-99 f, h

HPI-2
rank
minus
income
poverty
rank i

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

24.8
18.5
16.2
21.8
23.7

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
88

..
..
..
..
..

..
..

..
..

22.8
22.8

..
..

..
..

..
..

..
..

82
..

..
..

† Denotes indicators used to calculate the human poverty index (HPI-2). For further details, see technical note 1.
Note: This table includes Israel and Malta, which are not OECD member countries, but excludes the Republic of Korea, Mexico and Turkey, which are. For the human poverty index and related indicators for these countries, see table 3.
a. The human poverty index (HPI-2) is calculated for selected high-income OECD countries only. b. Data refer to the probability at birth of not surviving to age 60, multiplied by 100. They are medium-variant projections
for the period specified. c. Based on scoring at level 1 on the prose literacy scale of the International Adult Literacy Survey. Data refer to the most recent year available during the period specified. More recent data will be
available shortly. d. Data refer to unemployment lasting 12 months or longer. e. Poverty line is measured at 50% of equivalent median adjusted disposable household income. f. Data refer to the most recent year available during the period specified. g. Based on the US poverty line, $11 (1994 PPP US$) a day per person for a family of three. h. Poverty line is $4 (1990 PPP US$) a day. i. Income poverty refers to the percentage of the
population living on less than 50% of the median adjusted disposible household income. A positive figure indicates that the country performs better in income poverty than in human poverty, a negative the opposite. j.
Data refer to Flanders. k. For purposes of calculating the HPI-2, an estimate of 15.1%, the unweighted average of countries with available data, was applied. l. Smeeding 1997. m. Data are based on small samples and
should be treated with caution.
Source: Column 1: determined on the basis of HPI-2 values in column 2; column 2: calculated on the basis of data in columns 3-6; see technical note 1 for details; column 3: calculated on the basis of survival data from
UN 2003; column 4: OECD and Statistics Canada 2000, unless otherwise noted; column 5: calculated on the basis of data on long-term unemployment and labour force from OECD 2004d; column 6: LIS 2004; column 7:
Smeeding, Rainwater, and Burtless 2000; column 8: Milanovic 2002; column 9: calculated on the basis of data in columns 1 and 6.

HPI-2 ranks for 17 selected OECD countries
1
2
3
4
5
6

Sweden
Norway
Netherlands
Finland
Denmark
Germany

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

7
8
9
10
11
12

Luxembourg
France
Spain
Japan
Italy
Canada

13
14
15
16
17

Belgium
Australia
United Kingdom
Ireland
United States

151

. . . TO LEAD A LONG AND HEALTHY LIFE . . .

5 Demographic
trends

Total population
(millions)
1975
2002 b
2015 b

HDI rank

Annual
population
growth rate
19752002 2002-15 b

Urban population
(% of total) a
1975
2002 b 2015 b

Population under Population age
age 15
65 and above Total fertility rate
(% of total)
(% of total)
(births per woman)
2002 b 2015 b
2002 b
2015 b 1970-75 c 2000-05 c

High human development
1
2
3
4
5

Norway
Sweden
Australia
Canada
Netherlands

4.0
8.2
13.9
23.1
13.7

4.5
8.9
19.5
31.3
16.1

4.7
9.0
21.7
34.1
16.8

0.4
0.3
1.3
1.1
0.6

0.3
0.1
0.8
0.7
0.3

68.2
82.7
85.9
75.6
56.9

77.6
83.3
91.6
80.1
65.4

86.4
84.3
94.9
84.0
71.4

19.7
17.9
20.1
18.4
18.4

16.6
15.7
17.3
14.8
16.4

15.2
17.4
12.5
12.8
13.8

18.0
21.4
15.5
16.4
17.4

2.2
1.9
2.5
2.0
2.1

1.8
1.6
1.7
1.5
1.7

6
7
8
9
10

Belgium
Iceland
United States
Japan
Ireland

9.8
0.2
220.2
111.5
3.2

10.3
0.3
291.0
127.5
3.9

10.5
0.3
329.7
127.2
4.4

0.2
1.0
1.0
0.5
0.8

0.1
0.6
1.0
(.)
0.9

94.5
86.6
73.7
56.8
53.6

97.2
92.7
79.8
65.3
59.6

97.5
94.1
83.6
67.7
63.6

17.2
23.0
21.6
14.3
20.9

15.5
18.7
20.3
13.0
20.3

17.3
11.5
12.2
18.2
11.3

19.5
13.5
14.2
26.0
13.4

1.9
2.8
2.0
2.1
3.8

1.7
2.0
2.1
1.3
1.9

11
12
13
14
15

Switzerland
United Kingdom
Finland
Austria
Luxembourg

6.3
55.4
4.7
7.6
0.4

7.2
59.1
5.2
8.1
0.4

7.0
61.3
5.3
8.1
0.5

0.5
0.2
0.4
0.3
0.8

-0.2
0.3
0.1
-0.1
1.2

55.7
82.7
58.3
65.3
73.7

67.6
89.0
61.0
65.8
91.6

68.7
90.2
62.1
67.2
94.1

16.2
18.7
17.8
16.2
19.0

12.6
15.9
15.8
12.4
17.6

16.4
15.9
15.3
15.8
13.4

22.0
17.8
20.3
19.5
14.4

1.8
2.0
1.6
2.0
2.0

1.4
1.6
1.7
1.3
1.7

16
17
18
19
20

France
Denmark
New Zealand
Germany
Spain

52.7
5.1
3.1
78.7
35.6

59.8
5.4
3.8
82.4
41.0

62.8
5.4
4.2
82.5
41.2

0.5
0.2
0.8
0.2
0.5

0.4
0.1
0.6
(.)
(.)

72.9
82.1
82.8
81.2
69.6

76.1
85.2
85.8
87.9
76.4

79.0
86.8
87.0
90.0
78.1

18.6
18.5
22.6
15.2
14.3

17.8
16.3
19.3
13.2
13.2

16.2
15.0
11.9
17.1
17.0

18.5
19.2
14.6
20.8
19.2

2.3
2.0
2.8
1.6
2.9

1.9
1.8
2.0
1.4
1.2

21
22
23
24
25

Italy
Israel
Hong Kong, China (SAR)
Greece
Singapore

55.4
3.4
4.4
9.0
2.3

57.5
6.3
7.0
11.0
4.2

55.5
7.8
7.9
10.9
4.7

0.1
2.3
1.7
0.7
2.3

-0.3
1.6
0.9
(.)
0.9

65.6
86.6
89.7
55.3
100.0

67.3
91.6
100.0
60.6
100.0

69.2
92.4
100.0
65.2
100.0

14.1
27.9
15.7
14.7
21.1

12.3
24.8
12.9
13.2
12.9

18.7
9.9
11.0
18.2
7.6

22.3
11.4
13.6
20.9
13.1

2.3
3.8
2.9
2.3
2.6

1.2
2.7
1.0
1.3
1.4

26
27
28
29
30

Portugal
Slovenia
Korea, Rep. of
Barbados
Cyprus

9.1
1.7
35.3
0.2
0.6

10.0
2.0
47.4
0.3
0.8

10.0
1.9
49.7
0.3
0.9

0.4
0.5
1.1
0.3
1.0

(.)
-0.2
0.4
0.3
0.6

27.7
42.4
48.0
40.8
45.2

54.1
50.8
80.1
51.1
69.0

60.9
52.6
83.0
59.1
71.6

16.6
15.0
20.3
20.0
22.1

15.3
12.1
15.5
16.4
18.9

16.0
14.6
7.8
10.0
11.8

18.0
18.5
11.9
11.1
14.9

2.7
2.2
4.3
2.7
2.5

1.5
1.1
1.4
1.5
1.9

31
32
33
34
35

Malta
Czech Republic
Brunei Darussalam
Argentina
Seychelles

0.3
10.0
0.2
26.0
0.1

0.4
10.2
0.3
38.0
0.1

0.4
10.1
0.5
43.4
0.1

0.9
0.1
2.9
1.4
1.2

0.4
-0.1
2.0
1.0
0.7

80.4
63.7
62.0
81.0
33.3

91.4
74.2
75.5
89.9
49.8

93.7
75.7
82.8
92.2
53.3

19.4
15.7
30.6
27.3
..

17.0
13.2
25.4
24.4
..

12.5
13.9
2.9
9.9
..

18.0
18.6
4.4
11.0
..

2.1
2.2
5.4
3.1
..

1.8
1.2
2.5
2.4
..

36
37
38
39
40

Estonia
Poland
Hungary
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Bahrain

1.4
34.0
10.5
(.)
0.3

1.3
38.6
9.9
(.)
0.7

1.2
38.2
9.3
(.)
0.9

-0.3
0.5
-0.2
-0.3
3.5

-1.1
-0.1
-0.5
-0.3
1.8

67.6
55.4
52.8
35.0
85.8

69.4
61.8
64.7
32.4
89.9

71.4
64.0
70.0
32.5
91.4

16.7
17.9
16.4
..
29.2

14.2
14.6
13.3
..
23.2

15.8
12.5
14.8
..
2.7

18.2
14.8
17.4
..
3.9

2.2
2.3
2.1
..
5.9

1.2
1.3
1.2
..
2.7

41
42
43
44
45

Lithuania
Slovakia
Chile
Kuwait
Costa Rica

3.3
4.7
10.3
1.0
2.1

3.5
5.4
15.6
2.4
4.1

3.2
5.4
18.0
3.4
5.0

0.2
0.5
1.5
3.3
2.6

-0.6
0.1
1.1
2.4
1.6

55.7
46.3
78.4
83.8
42.5

66.8
57.2
86.6
96.2
60.1

67.5
60.8
90.2
96.9
66.8

19.0
18.4
27.8
26.1
30.4

16.0
15.4
23.6
22.6
23.9

14.5
11.5
7.5
1.4
5.5

16.4
13.6
9.8
3.5
7.4

2.3
2.5
3.6
6.9
4.3

1.3
1.3
2.4
2.7
2.3

46
47
48
49
50

Uruguay
Qatar
Croatia
United Arab Emirates
Latvia

2.8
0.2
4.3
0.5
2.5

3.4
0.6
4.4
2.9
2.3

3.7
0.7
4.3
3.6
2.1

0.7
4.7
0.1
6.5
-0.2

0.6
1.3
-0.3
1.5
-0.9

83.4
84.8
45.1
83.6
65.4

92.4
91.8
58.6
85.0
66.3

94.4
93.6
64.6
87.2
66.3

24.6
26.6
16.9
25.8
16.5

22.5
21.7
16.5
20.8
13.0

13.1
1.5
16.3
1.3
15.8

13.7
4.6
17.8
4.2
18.3

3.0
6.8
2.0
6.4
2.0

2.3
3.2
1.7
2.8
1.1

152

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

5 Demographic
trends

Total population
(millions)
1975
2002 b
2015 b

HDI rank
51
52
53
54
55

Bahamas
Cuba
Mexico
Trinidad and Tobago
Antigua and Barbuda

Annual
population
growth rate
19752002 2002-15 b

Urban population
(% of total) a
1975
2002 b 2015 b

Population under Population age
age 15
65 and above Total fertility rate
(% of total)
(% of total)
(births per woman)
2002 b 2015 b
2002 b
2015 b 1970-75 c 2000-05 c

0.2
9.3
59.1
1.0
0.1

0.3
11.3
102.0
1.3
0.1

0.4
11.5
119.6
1.3
0.1

1.8
0.7
2.0
0.9
0.6

0.9
0.2
1.2
0.3
0.4

73.4
64.2
62.8
63.0
34.2

89.2
75.5
75.2
75.0
37.4

91.6
78.1
78.8
79.7
43.4

29.0
20.3
32.8
23.3
..

24.5
16.3
26.4
19.7
..

5.5
10.2
5.0
6.9
..

8.3
14.4
6.8
10.0
..

3.4
3.5
6.5
3.5
..

2.3
1.6
2.5
1.6
..

8.7
134.2
2.4
12.3
1.7

8.0
144.1
5.4
24.0
2.0

7.2
133.4
6.9
29.6
2.2

-0.3
0.3
3.0
2.5
0.7

-0.8
-0.6
1.8
1.6
0.4

57.5
66.4
60.9
37.7
50.6

69.4
73.3
86.0
63.3
59.4

74.0
74.3
89.0
71.0
62.0

14.8
16.5
31.3
33.2
22.0

12.6
13.7
28.7
27.2
20.0

16.3
13.2
3.7
4.3
10.4

18.0
14.3
5.5
6.1
12.2

2.2
2.0
7.6
5.2
3.0

1.1
1.1
3.0
2.9
1.9

1.7
9.4
0.1
0.9
2.4

3.1
9.9
0.1
1.2
3.1

3.8
9.4
0.1
1.3
3.4

2.1
0.2
0.4
1.1
1.0

1.6
-0.4
0.9
0.8
0.7

49.0
50.3
24.4
43.4
32.7

56.8
70.5
33.2
43.1
43.2

61.7
75.2
38.2
47.3
51.2

31.2
17.1
37.1
25.3
28.5

27.5
14.1
31.4
21.0
22.9

5.7
14.2
5.9
6.2
6.2

7.5
14.3
5.2
8.2
8.1

4.9
2.3
5.5
3.2
4.7

2.7
1.2
3.7
1.9
2.3

3.7
0.4
12.7
21.2
49.0

4.1
0.4
25.2
22.4
48.9

4.3
0.5
31.2
21.6
44.4

0.4
0.6
2.5
0.2
(.)

0.3
0.7
1.6
-0.3
-0.7

31.3
49.5
75.8
42.8
58.3

43.9
75.4
87.4
54.5
67.2

51.1
81.6
90.0
56.4
68.9

17.6
31.0
33.0
17.1
16.5

14.1
27.0
27.6
15.4
13.2

10.8
5.3
4.6
13.9
14.6

13.6
6.2
6.6
14.8
16.1

2.6
5.3
4.9
2.6
2.2

1.3
2.5
2.7
1.3
1.2

0.1
108.1
25.4
0.9
0.2

0.1
176.3
43.5
2.8
0.2

0.2
202.0
52.2
3.9
0.2

1.3
1.8
2.0
4.1
0.6

0.7
1.0
1.4
2.7
1.1

23.6
61.2
60.0
19.6
21.1

30.1
82.4
76.0
77.0
22.2

36.8
88.4
81.3
82.6
24.7

30.4
28.3
32.1
37.2
40.8

26.0
24.1
27.0
36.0
35.5

5.4
5.4
4.9
2.1
4.5

6.2
7.5
6.5
3.0
4.4

5.7
4.7
5.0
7.2
5.7

2.3
2.2
2.6
5.0
4.1

Medium human development
56
57
58
59
60

Bulgaria
Russian Federation
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
Malaysia
Macedonia, TFYR

61
62
63
64
65

Panama
Belarus
Tonga
Mauritius
Albania

66
67
68
69
70

Bosnia and Herzegovina
Suriname
Venezuela
Romania
Ukraine

71
72
73
74
75

Saint Lucia
Brazil
Colombia
Oman
Samoa (Western)

76
77
78
79
80

Thailand
Saudi Arabia
Kazakhstan
Jamaica
Lebanon

41.3
7.3
14.1
2.0
2.8

62.2
23.5
15.5
2.6
3.6

69.6
32.7
15.3
3.0
4.2

1.5
4.4
0.3
1.0
1.0

0.9
2.5
-0.1
1.0
1.2

23.8
58.3
52.2
44.1
67.0

31.6
87.2
55.8
52.1
87.2

36.7
91.1
58.2
54.2
90.1

25.6
39.1
26.0
30.8
29.6

22.0
34.5
21.4
25.8
24.0

5.8
2.7
7.5
7.1
6.2

8.1
3.4
8.4
7.7
6.5

5.0
7.3
3.5
5.0
4.9

1.9
4.5
2.0
2.4
2.2

81
82
83
84
85

Fiji
Armenia
Philippines
Maldives
Peru

0.6
2.8
42.0
0.1
15.2

0.8
3.1
78.6
0.3
26.8

0.9
3.0
96.3
0.4
32.0

1.4
0.3
2.3
3.0
2.1

0.8
-0.3
1.6
2.8
1.4

36.7
63.0
35.6
18.1
61.5

51.0
64.6
60.2
28.4
73.5

60.1
64.2
69.2
35.2
78.0

32.7
21.4
36.6
43.1
33.6

27.6
14.4
29.9
39.6
27.5

3.7
9.2
3.7
3.2
5.0

5.8
9.9
4.9
3.1
6.5

4.2
3.0
6.0
7.0
6.0

2.9
1.2
3.2
5.3
2.9

86
87
88
89
90

Turkmenistan
St. Vincent & the Grenadines
Turkey
Paraguay
Jordan

2.5
0.1
41.0
2.7
1.9

4.8
0.1
70.3
5.7
5.3

5.8
0.1
82.1
7.7
7.0

2.4
0.8
2.0
2.9
3.7

1.5
0.5
1.2
2.2
2.1

47.6
27.0
41.6
39.0
57.8

45.1
57.2
65.8
56.6
78.9

50.0
68.6
71.9
64.3
81.1

34.6
31.1
30.7
38.8
38.0

27.4
26.0
25.0
34.2
31.6

4.5
6.7
5.7
3.6
3.0

4.6
7.1
6.7
4.3
4.0

6.2
5.5
5.2
5.7
7.8

2.7
2.2
2.4
3.8
3.6

91
92
93
94
95

Azerbaijan
Tunisia
Grenada
China
Dominica

1.4
2.0
-0.5
1.2 d
0.3

1.0
1.0
-0.3
0.6 d
0.2

51.5
49.9
32.6
17.4
55.3

50.2
63.4
40.0
37.7
71.7

51.3
68.1
49.5
49.5
76.2

30.1
28.5
..
23.7
..

23.5
22.6
..
19.4
..

6.1
5.9
..
7.1
..

5.9
6.7
..
9.4
..

4.3
6.2
..
4.9
..

2.1
2.0
..
1.8
..

1.3
0.2
2.0
2.3
2.3

0.7
-0.7
1.2
1.8
1.3

22.0
49.5
45.7
50.2
42.4

21.1
52.2
58.9
48.2
61.3

22.5
51.6
64.6
51.8
67.6

25.0
19.2
32.5
37.9
33.1

21.3
15.2
28.3
31.1
27.1

6.9
13.8
4.6
4.4
5.0

9.3
14.9
6.4
4.8
6.6

4.1
2.6
5.6
6.3
6.0

2.0
1.4
2.7
3.2
2.8

96
97
98
99
100

Sri Lanka
Georgia
Dominican Republic
Belize
Ecuador

5.7
5.7
0.1
927.8 d
0.1
13.5
4.9
5.0
0.1
6.9

8.3
9.7
0.1
1,294.9 d
0.1
18.9
5.2
8.6
0.3
12.8

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

9.5
11.1
0.1
1,402.3 d
0.1
20.6
4.7
10.1
0.3
15.2

153

5 Demographic
trends

Total population
(millions)
1975
2002 b
2015 b

HDI rank

Annual
population
growth rate
19752002 2002-15 b

Urban population
(% of total) a
1975
2002 b 2015 b

Population under Population age
age 15
65 and above Total fertility rate
(% of total)
(% of total)
(births per woman)
2002 b 2015 b
2002 b
2015 b 1970-75 c 2000-05 c

101
102
103
104
105

Iran, Islamic Rep. of
33.4
Occupied Palestinian Territories 1.3
El Salvador
4.1
Guyana
0.7
Cape Verde
0.3

68.1
3.4
6.4
0.8
0.5

81.4
5.3
7.6
0.8
0.6

2.6
3.7
1.6
0.1
1.8

1.4
3.3
1.3
(.)
1.8

45.8
59.6
41.5
30.0
21.4

65.9
70.8
59.3
37.1
55.1

73.9
75.6
64.2
44.2
64.8

32.6
46.1
35.1
30.0
39.9

26.8
42.1
29.4
25.5
32.6

4.5
3.4
5.3
5.1
4.4

4.9
3.0
6.5
6.6
3.5

6.4
7.7
6.1
4.9
7.0

2.3
5.6
2.9
2.3
3.3

106
107
108
109
110

Syrian Arab Republic
Uzbekistan
Algeria
Equatorial Guinea
Kyrgyzstan

7.5
14.0
16.0
0.2
3.3

17.4
25.7
31.3
0.5
5.1

23.0
30.7
38.1
0.7
5.9

3.1
2.3
2.5
2.8
1.6

2.2
1.4
1.5
2.5
1.2

45.1
39.1
40.3
27.1
37.9

50.1
36.8
58.3
47.1
34.0

52.4
37.0
65.3
58.2
35.4

38.3
34.5
33.5
43.6
32.6

32.2
26.2
27.4
43.0
26.4

3.0
4.9
4.2
3.9
6.3

3.6
5.0
4.9
3.6
5.9

7.5
6.3
7.4
5.7
4.7

3.3
2.4
2.8
5.9
2.6

111
112
113
114
115

Indonesia
Viet Nam
Moldova, Rep. of
Bolivia
Honduras

134.4
48.0
3.8
4.8
3.0

217.1
80.3
4.3
8.6
6.8

250.4
94.7
4.2
10.8
8.8

1.8
1.9
0.4
2.2
3.0

1.1
1.3
-0.1
1.7
2.0

19.3
18.9
35.8
41.3
32.1

44.5
25.2
45.9
62.9
45.2

57.8
32.4
50.0
69.0
51.3

29.9
31.7
21.2
39.0
40.7

25.3
25.3
16.5
32.8
33.5

5.1
5.4
9.7
4.4
3.6

6.4
5.5
10.9
5.3
4.5

5.2
6.7
2.6
6.5
7.1

2.4
2.3
1.4
3.8
3.7

116
117
118
119
120

Tajikistan
Mongolia
Nicaragua
South Africa
Egypt

3.4
1.4
2.5
25.8
39.3

6.2
2.6
5.3
44.8
70.5

7.3
3.1
7.0
44.3
90.0

2.2
2.1
2.8
2.0
2.2

1.2
1.4
2.1
-0.1
1.9

35.5
48.7
48.9
48.0
43.5

25.0
56.7
56.9
56.5
42.1

24.4
59.5
62.8
62.7
44.9

37.4
33.2
41.9
33.2
35.2

28.5
26.6
34.9
29.2
31.7

4.8
3.8
3.1
3.9
4.6

4.6
4.1
3.8
6.0
5.4

6.8
7.3
6.8
5.4
5.7

3.1
2.4
3.7
2.6
3.3

121
122
123
124
125

Guatemala
Gabon
São Tomé and Principe
Solomon Islands
Morocco

6.0
0.6
0.1
0.2
17.3

12.0
1.3
0.2
0.5
30.1

16.2
1.6
0.2
0.6
36.5

2.6
2.9
2.4
3.2
2.0

2.3
1.8
2.3
2.5
1.5

36.7
40.0
27.3
9.1
37.8

45.9
83.1
37.7
16.2
56.8

51.9
89.1
40.3
20.9
64.8

43.0
41.0
40.2
42.9
31.8

37.4
35.0
36.4
36.5
27.9

3.6
4.6
4.5
2.6
4.4

3.9
4.3
3.8
3.4
5.1

6.5
5.3
5.4
7.2
6.9

4.4
4.0
4.0
4.4
2.7

126
127
128
129
130

Namibia
India
Botswana
Vanuatu
Cambodia

0.9
620.7
0.8
0.1
7.1

2.0
1,049.5
1.8
0.2
13.8

2.2
1,246.4
1.7
0.3
18.4

2.8
1.9
2.8
2.7
2.5

0.9
1.3
-0.3
2.2
2.2

20.6
21.3
12.8
15.7
10.3

31.9
28.1
51.1
22.4
18.0

39.8
32.2
57.5
28.6
26.1

43.2
33.3
39.8
40.6
41.9

37.5
27.7
37.4
34.9
37.4

3.7
5.1
2.7
3.4
2.9

4.6
6.3
4.5
4.0
3.6

6.6
5.4
6.7
6.1
5.5

4.6
3.0
3.7
4.1
4.8

131
132
133
134
135

Ghana
Myanmar
Papua New Guinea
Bhutan
Lao People’s Dem. Rep.

9.9
30.2
2.9
1.2
3.0

20.5
48.9
5.6
2.2
5.5

26.4
55.8
7.2
3.0
7.3

2.7
1.8
2.5
2.3
2.2

1.9
1.0
1.9
2.5
2.1

30.1
23.9
11.9
3.5
11.1

45.0
28.9
13.2
8.2
20.2

51.1
37.6
14.5
12.6
27.4

40.1
32.3
41.2
41.8
42.0

34.9
26.8
34.0
37.8
36.8

3.3
4.6
2.4
4.3
3.5

4.1
5.9
2.8
4.5
3.7

6.9
5.8
6.1
5.9
6.2

4.1
2.9
4.1
5.0
4.8

136
137
138
139
140
141

Comoros
Swaziland
Bangladesh
Sudan
Nepal
Cameroon

0.3
0.5
75.2
16.7
13.4
7.6

0.7
1.1
143.8
32.9
24.6
15.7

1.0
1.1
181.4
41.4
32.0
18.9

3.2
2.7
2.4
2.5
2.3
2.7

2.6
(.)
1.8
1.8
2.0
1.4

21.2
14.0
9.9
18.9
5.0
26.9

34.4
23.4
23.9
38.0
14.6
50.6

43.0
27.0
29.6
49.3
20.5
59.9

42.3
43.7
38.3
39.7
40.2
42.4

38.5
39.7
31.9
34.8
35.6
37.8

2.4
3.3
3.2
3.5
3.7
3.7

3.0
4.6
3.8
4.4
4.2
4.1

7.1
6.9
6.2
6.7
5.8
6.3

4.9
4.5
3.5
4.4
4.3
4.6

Low human development
142
143
144
145
146

Pakistan
Togo
Congo
Lesotho
Uganda

70.3
2.3
1.5
1.1
10.8

149.9
4.8
3.6
1.8
25.0

204.5
6.4
5.2
1.7
39.3

2.8
2.8
3.2
1.7
3.1

2.4
2.2
2.8
-0.4
3.5

26.4
16.3
34.8
10.8
8.3

33.7
34.5
53.1
17.8
12.2

39.5
43.3
59.3
21.0
14.2

41.5
43.9
46.8
39.9
50.1

38.1
40.3
46.2
38.2
49.7

3.7
3.1
2.9
4.7
2.6

4.0
3.5
2.8
5.4
2.3

6.3
7.1
6.3
5.7
7.1

5.1
5.3
6.3
3.8
7.1

147
148
149
150
151

Zimbabwe
Kenya
Yemen
Madagascar
Nigeria

6.1
13.6
6.9
7.9
54.9

12.8
31.5
19.3
16.9
120.9

13.0
36.9
30.7
24.0
161.7

2.7
3.1
3.8
2.8
2.9

0.1
1.2
3.6
2.7
2.2

19.6
12.9
14.8
16.4
23.4

34.5
38.2
25.3
26.3
45.9

41.4
51.8
31.3
30.7
55.5

43.1
42.1
48.7
44.6
44.6

39.6
36.5
47.2
41.7
40.6

3.4
2.9
2.3
3.0
3.1

4.2
3.4
2.2
3.1
3.4

7.6
8.1
8.4
6.6
6.9

3.9
4.0
7.0
5.7
5.4

154

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

5 Demographic
trends

Total population
(millions)
1975
2002 b
2015 b

HDI rank

Annual
population
growth rate
19752002 2002-15 b

Urban population
(% of total) a
1975
2002 b 2015 b

Population under Population age
age 15
65 and above Total fertility rate
(% of total)
(% of total)
(births per woman)
2002 b 2015 b
2002 b
2015 b 1970-75 c 2000-05 c

152
153
154
155
156

Mauritania
Haiti
Djibouti
Gambia
Eritrea

1.4
4.9
0.2
0.6
2.1

2.8
8.2
0.7
1.4
4.0

4.0
9.7
0.8
1.9
5.9

2.5
1.9
4.3
3.4
2.4

2.7
1.3
1.5
2.2
3.0

20.3
21.7
61.6
17.0
12.7

60.5
36.9
83.3
26.1
19.5

73.9
45.5
87.6
27.8
26.5

43.2
39.1
43.0
40.9
45.5

41.7
35.1
40.3
36.6
41.7

3.3
3.9
3.2
3.5
2.1

3.5
4.5
3.8
4.4
2.4

6.5
5.8
7.2
6.5
6.5

5.8
4.0
5.7
4.7
5.4

157
158
159
160
161

Senegal
Timor-Leste
Rwanda
Guinea
Benin

4.8
0.7
4.4
4.1
3.0

9.9
0.7
8.3
8.4
6.6

13.2
1.1
10.6
11.2
9.1

2.7
0.3
2.3
2.7
2.8

2.2
2.8
1.9
2.3
2.5

34.2
8.9
4.0
16.3
21.9

48.9
7.6
16.6
34.2
43.8

57.9
9.5
40.5
44.2
53.5

43.5
39.3
45.2
44.0
45.6

39.0
30.2
43.5
41.5
42.1

2.4
2.8
2.5
2.9
2.7

2.7
3.8
2.9
3.1
2.8

7.0
6.2
8.3
7.0
7.1

5.0
3.8
5.7
5.8
5.7

162
163
164
165
166

Tanzania, U. Rep. of
Côte d’Ivoire
Zambia
Malawi
Angola

16.2
6.8
5.1
5.2
6.2

36.3
16.4
10.7
11.9
13.2

45.9
19.8
12.7
15.2
19.3

3.0
3.3
2.8
3.0
2.8

1.8
1.5
1.3
1.9
2.9

10.1
32.1
34.8
7.7
17.4

34.4
44.4
35.4
15.9
34.9

46.8
51.0
40.8
22.2
44.9

45.3
41.8
46.5
46.2
47.5

40.2
37.3
44.7
44.9
47.9

2.3
3.2
3.0
3.5
2.7

2.7
3.9
3.2
3.6
2.6

6.8
7.4
7.8
7.4
6.6

5.1
4.7
5.6
6.1
7.2

167
168
169
170
171

Chad
Congo, Dem. Rep. of the
Central African Republic
Ethiopia
Mozambique

4.1
23.9
2.1
33.1
10.6

8.3
51.2
3.8
69.0
18.5

12.1
74.2
4.6
93.8
22.5

2.6
2.8
2.3
2.7
2.1

2.9
2.8
1.4
2.4
1.5

15.6
29.5
33.7
9.5
8.7

24.5
31.2
42.2
15.4
34.5

31.1
39.7
50.3
19.8
48.5

46.7
46.8
43.1
45.7
44.0

46.5
47.2
40.4
43.1
41.2

3.1
2.6
4.0
2.9
3.2

2.8
2.6
4.0
3.2
3.5

6.7
6.5
5.7
6.8
6.6

6.7
6.7
4.9
6.1
5.6

172
173
174
175
176
177

Guinea-Bissau
Burundi
Mali
Burkina Faso
Niger
Sierra Leone

0.7
3.7
6.3
6.1
4.8
2.9

1.4
6.6
12.6
12.6
11.5
4.8

2.1
9.8
19.0
18.6
18.3
6.4

3.0
2.2
2.6
2.7
3.3
1.8

2.9
3.1
3.1
3.0
3.6
2.3

16.0
3.2
16.2
6.3
10.6
21.4

33.2
9.6
31.6
17.4
21.6
38.1

43.5
14.6
40.9
23.2
29.7
47.6

47.1
46.9
49.2
48.9
50.0
44.2

46.9
45.8
48.7
47.7
49.7
44.1

3.1
2.9
2.4
2.7
2.0
2.9

2.8
2.5
2.1
2.4
1.9
3.0

7.1
6.8
7.1
7.8
8.1
6.5

7.1
6.8
7.0
6.7
8.0
6.5

5,868.2 T
941.9 T
389.7 T
2,124.6 T
622.5 T
1,805.3 T
843.1 T
398.4 T
1,227.7 T
962.9 T

1.9
2.5
2.7
1.4
1.9
2.1
2.7
0.4
0.8
0.6

1.3
2.3
2.1
0.8
1.2
1.5
2.1
-0.2
0.5
0.4

26.4
14.7
41.7
20.4
61.2
21.3
21.0
56.8
67.3
69.9

41.4
26.1
54.2
40.2
76.2
29.6
35.0
62.8
75.7
77.3

48.6
33.4
58.8
51.0
80.8
34.3
42.4
63.7
79.0
80.4

32.2
42.9
37.1
25.8
31.1
34.8
44.3
19.5
20.2
18.2

28.2
40.1
33.5
21.4
26.3
29.6
41.9
16.3
17.9
16.5

5.2
3.1
3.7
6.5
5.6
4.7
3.0
12.2
13.3
14.8

6.4
3.3
4.3
8.4
7.3
5.6
3.3
13.2
16.0
18.0

5.4
6.6
6.7
5.0
5.1
5.6
6.8
2.5
2.5
2.2

2.9
5.1
3.8
2.0
2.5
3.3
5.4
1.4
1.8
1.7

Developing countries
2,961.2 T 4,936.9 T
Least developed countries
353.7 T
700.9 T
Arab States
143.4 T
296.6 T
East Asia and the Pacific
1,310.5 T 1,917.6 T
Latin America and the Caribbean 317.9 T
530.2 T
South Asia
842.1 T 1,480.3 T
Sub-Saharan Africa
305.8 T
641.0 T
Central & Eastern Europe & CIS
366.6 T
408.9 T
OECD
925.6 T 1,148.1 T
High-income OECD
766.2 T
911.6 T
High human development
Medium human development
Low human development

972.3 T
2,678.4 T
354.5 T

1,201.3 T
4,165.2 T
755.8 T

1,282.0 T
4,759.1 T
1,021.6 T

0.8
1.6
2.8

0.5
1.0
2.3

68.9
28.1
19.4

77.1
42.2
32.4

80.3
49.3
39.9

20.0
29.3
44.6

17.8
24.8
42.1

13.4
6.0
3.0

16.2
7.4
3.2

2.5
4.9
6.8

1.8
2.4
5.6

High income
Middle income
Low income

782.0 T
1,847.5 T
1,437.1 T

941.2 T
2,720.7 T
2,560.8 T

997.7 T
3,027.9 T
3,169.0 T

0.7
1.4
2.1

0.4
0.8
1.6

70.1
35.7
20.7

77.8
52.8
31.2

80.9
61.0
37.5

18.3
26.3
37.0

16.6
22.3
32.8

14.6
7.0
4.3

17.7
8.6
5.0

2.2
4.5
5.9

1.7
2.1
3.7

World

4,068.1 T e 6,225.0 T e 7,197.2 T e 1.6

1.1

37.2

47.8

53.5

29.4

26.1

7.1

8.3

4.5

2.7

a. Because data are based on national definitions of what constitutes a city or metropolitan area, cross-country comparisons should be made with caution. b. Data refer to medium-variant projections. c. Data refer to estimates for the period specified. d. Population estimates include Taiwan, province of China. e. Data refer to the total world population according to UN 2003. The total population of the 177 countries included in the main
indicator tables was estimated to be 4,063 million in 1975, and projected to be 6,217 million in 2002 and 7,188 million in 2015.
Source: Columns 1-3, 13 and 14: UN 2003; column 4: calculated on the basis of columns 1 and 2; column 5: calculated on the basis of columns 2 and 3; columns 6-8: UN 2004h; columns 9 and 10: calculated on the
basis of data on population under age 15 and total population from UN 2003; columns 11 and 12: calculated on the basis of data on population ages 65 and above and total population from UN 2003.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

155

6 Commitment to
health:
resources, access
and services

HDI rank

. . . TO LEAD A LONG AND HEALTHY LIFE . . .

MDG
One-year-olds
fully immunized
Health expenditure
Against
Against
Public
Private Per capita tuberculosis measles
(% of GDP) (% of GDP) (PPP US$)
(%)
(%)
2001
2001
2001
2002
2002

Oral
rehydration
therapy
use rate
(%)
19942002 c

Contraceptive
prevalence
rate a
(%)
19952002 c

MDG
MDG
Births
Population with
attended
sustainable
by skilled Physicians access to
health
(per
affordable
personnel 100,000
essential
(%)
people)
drugs b
19951990(%)
2002 c
2003 c
1999

High human development
1
2
3
4
5

Norway
Sweden
Australia
Canada
Netherlands

6.9
7.5
6.2
6.8
5.7

1.2
1.3
3.0
2.8
3.3

2,920
2,270
2,532
2,792
2,612

..
..
..
..
..

88
94
94
96
96

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
75
..

100
100
100
98
100

d

6
7
8
9
10

Belgium
Iceland
United States
Japan
Ireland

6.4
7.6
6.2
6.2
4.9

2.5
1.6
7.7
1.8
1.6

2,481
2,643
4,887
2,131
1,935

..
..
..
..
90

75
88
91
98
73

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
76
56
..

100
..
99
100
100

d

11
12
13
14
15

Switzerland
United Kingdom
Finland
Austria
Luxembourg

6.3
6.2
5.3
5.6
5.4

4.7
1.4
1.7
2.5
0.6

3,322
1,989
1,845
2,259
2,905

..
..
99
..
..

79
83
96
78
91

..
..
..
..
..

82
84
..
51
..

16
17
18
19
20

France
Denmark
New Zealand
Germany
Spain

7.3
7.0
6.4
8.1
5.4

2.3
1.5
1.9
2.7
2.2

2,567
2,503
1,724
2,820
1,607

83
..
..
..
..

85
99
85
89
97

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
75
..
81

99
100
100
100
..

21
22
23
24
25

Italy
Israel
Hong Kong, China (SAR)
Greece
Singapore

6.3
6.0
..
5.2
1.3

2.1
2.7
..
4.1
2.6

2,204
1,839
..
1,522
993

..
..
..
88
98

70
95
..
88
91

..
..
..
..
..

60
..
..
..
62

..
99
..
..
100

26
27
28
29
30

Portugal
Slovenia
Korea, Rep. of
Barbados
Cyprus

6.4
6.3
2.7
4.3
3.9

2.9
2.1
3.3
2.2
4.3

1,618
1,545
948
940
941

82
98
89
..
..

87
94
97
92
86

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
81
..
..

100
100
100
91
100

31
32
33
34
35

Malta
Czech Republic
Brunei Darussalam
Argentina
Seychelles

6.0
6.7
2.5
5.1
4.1

2.8
0.6
0.6
4.4
1.9

813
1,129
638
1,130
770

..
97
99
99
99

65
..
99
97
98

..
..
..
..
..

..
72
..
..
..

98
99
99
98
..

36
37
38
39
40

Estonia
Poland
Hungary
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Bahrain

4.3
4.4
5.1
3.2
2.9

1.2
1.7
1.7
1.6
1.3

562
629
914
576
664

99
95
99
99
..

95
98
99
99
99

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
62

..
99
..
99
98

41
42
43
44
45

Lithuania
Slovakia
Chile
Kuwait
Costa Rica

4.2
5.1
2.9
3.0
4.9

1.8
0.6
3.9
0.8
2.3

478
681
792
612
562

99
98
94
..
91

98
99
95
99
94

..
..
..
..
..

47
..
..
50
..

46
47
48
49
50

Uruguay
Qatar
Croatia
United Arab Emirates
Latvia

5.1
2.3
7.3
2.6
3.4

5.9
0.8
1.6
0.8
3.1

971
782
726
921
509

99
99
99
98
99

92
99
95
94
98

..
..
..
..
..

..
43
..
28
48

156

e

367
287
247
187
328

95-100
95-100
95-100
95-100
95-100

419
352
279
202
239

95-100
95-100
95-100
95-100
95-100

350
164
311
323
254

95-100
95-100
95-100
95-100
95-100

330
366
219
363
329

95-100
95-100
95-100
95-100
95-100

607
375
160
438
140

95-100
95-100
..
95-100
95-100

318
219
180
137
269

95-100
95-100
95-100
95-100
95-100

291
342
99
304
132

95-100
80-94
95-100
50-79
80-94

313
220
355
117
169

95-100
80-94
95-100
50-79
95-100

..
..
100
98
98

403
326
115
160
160

80-94
95-100
80-94
95-100
95-100

100
98
100
96
100

387
220
238
177
291

50-79
95-100
95-100
95-100
80-94

..
99
100
100
100

d

d
d
d
d
d

d

d

d

d

d

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

6 Commitment to
health:
resources, access
and services

HDI rank
51
52
53
54
55

Bahamas
Cuba
Mexico
Trinidad and Tobago
Antigua and Barbuda

MDG
One-year-olds
fully immunized
Health expenditure
Against
Against
Public
Private Per capita tuberculosis measles
(% of GDP) (% of GDP) (PPP US$)
(%)
(%)
2001
2001
2001
2002
2002

Oral
rehydration
therapy
use rate
(%)
19942002 c

Contraceptive
prevalence
rate a
(%)
19952002 c

MDG
MDG
Births
Population with
attended
sustainable
by skilled Physicians access to
health
(per
affordable
personnel 100,000
essential
(%)
people)
drugs b
19951990(%)
2002 c
2003 c
1999

3.2
6.2
2.7
1.7
3.4

2.4
1.0
3.4
2.2
2.2

1,220
229
544
388
614

..
99
99
..
..

92
98
96
88
99

..
..
..
6
..

..
73
67
38
..

99
100
86
96
100

d

163
596
156
75
105

80-94
95-100
80-94
50-79
50-79

Medium human development
56
57
58
59
60

Bulgaria
Russian Federation
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
Malaysia
Macedonia, TFYR

3.9
3.7
1.6
2.1
5.8

0.9
1.7
1.3
1.8
1.0

303
454
239
345
331

98
97
99
99
91

90
98
91
92
98

..
..
..
..
..

42
..
40
..
..

..
99
94
97
97

344
420
120
68
219

80-94
50-79
95-100
50-79
50-79

61
62
63
64
65

Panama
Belarus
Tonga
Mauritius
Albania

4.8
4.8
3.4
2.0
2.4

2.2
0.7
2.1
1.4
1.3

458
464
223
323
150

92
99
99
87
94

79
99
90
84
96

7
..
..
..
48

..
50
..
..
58

90
100
92
99
99

121
450
35
85
137

80-94
50-79
95-100
95-100
50-79

66
67
68
69
70

Bosnia and Herzegovina
Suriname
Venezuela
Romania
Ukraine

2.8
5.7
3.8
5.2
2.9

4.8
3.8
2.3
1.4
1.4

268
398
386
460
176

91
..
90
99
98

89
73
78
98
99

11
24
10
..
..

48
42
..
64
68

100
85
94
98
100

145
50
200
189
299

80-94
95-100
80-94
80-94
50-79

71
72
73
74
75

Saint Lucia
Brazil
Colombia
Oman
Samoa (Western)

2.9
3.2
3.6
2.4
4.7

1.6
4.4
1.9
0.6
1.0

272
573
356
343
199

95
99
85
98
98

97
93
89
99
99

..
18
..
88
..

..
77
77
24
..

100
88
86
95
100

58
206
94
137
34

50-79
0-49
80-94
80-94
95-100

76
77
78
79
80

Thailand
Saudi Arabia
Kazakhstan
Jamaica
Lebanon

2.1
3.4
1.9
2.9
3.4

1.6
1.2
1.2
4.0
8.8

254
591
204
253
673

99
98
99
90
..

94
97
95
86
96

..
..
20
2
30

72
32
66
66
61

99
91
99
95
89

30
153
345
85
274

95-100
95-100
50-79
95-100
80-94

81
82
83
84
85

Fiji
Armenia
Philippines
Maldives
Peru

2.7
3.2
1.5
5.6
2.6

1.3
4.6
1.8
1.1
2.1

224
273
169
263
231

99
97
75
98
90

88
91
73
99
95

..
40
28
..
29

..
61
47
..
69

100
97
58
70
59

34
287
115
78
103

95-100
0-49
50-79
50-79
50-79

86
87
88
89
90

Turkmenistan
St. Vincent & the Grenadines
Turkey
Paraguay
Jordan

3.0
3.8
3.6
3.1
4.5

1.1
2.2
1.5
4.9
5.0

245
358
294
332
412

99
90
77
65
..

88
99
82
82
95

31
..
15
..
..

62
..
64
57
56

97
100
81
71
97

300
88
123
49
205

50-79
80-94
95-100
0-49
95-100

91
92
93
94
95

Azerbaijan
Tunisia
Grenada
China
Dominica

1.1
4.9
3.8
2.0
4.3

0.5
1.6
1.5
3.4
1.7

48
463
445
224
312

99
97
..
77
98

97
94
94
79
98

27
..
..
29
..

55
..
..
84
..

84
90
99
76
100

359
70
81
164
49

50-79
50-79
95-100
80-94
80-94

Sri Lanka
Georgia
Dominican Republic
Belize
Ecuador

1.8
1.4
2.2
2.4
2.3

1.9
2.2
3.9
2.9
2.3

122
108
353
278
177

99
91
99
97
99

99
73
92
89
80

..
33
22
..
..

..
41
65
..
66

97
96
98
83
69

43
463
190
102
145

95-100
0-49
50-79
80-94
0-49

96
97
98
99
100

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

157

6 Commitment to
health:
resources, access
and services

HDI rank

MDG
One-year-olds
fully immunized
Health expenditure
Against
Against
Public
Private Per capita tuberculosis measles
(% of GDP) (% of GDP) (PPP US$)
(%)
(%)
2001
2001
2001
2002
2002

Oral
rehydration
therapy
use rate
(%)
19942002 c

Contraceptive
prevalence
rate a
(%)
19952002 c

MDG
MDG
Births
Population with
attended
sustainable
by skilled Physicians access to
health
(per
affordable
personnel 100,000
essential
(%)
people)
drugs b
19951990(%)
2002 c
2003 c
1999

101
102
103
104
105

Iran, Islamic Rep. of
Occupied Palestinian Territories
El Salvador
Guyana
Cape Verde

2.8
..
3.7
4.2
3.8

3.6
..
4.3
1.1
0.7

422
..
376
215
165

99
96
92
91
92

99
94
93
95
85

..
43
..
7
..

73
..
60
37
53

90
97
90
86
89

110
84
126
26
17

80-94
..
80-94
0-49
80-94

106
107
108
109
110

Syrian Arab Republic
Uzbekistan
Algeria
Equatorial Guinea
Kyrgyzstan

2.4
2.7
3.1
1.2
1.9

3.0
0.9
1.0
0.8
2.1

427
91
169
106
108

99
98
98
73
99

98
97
81
51
98

..
19
24
..
13

..
67
64
..
60

76
96
92
65
98

142
293
85
25
272

80-94
50-79
95-100
0-49
50-79

111
112
113
114
115

Indonesia
Viet Nam
Moldova, Rep. of
Bolivia
Honduras

0.6
1.5
2.9
3.5
3.2

1.8
3.7
2.9
1.8
2.9

77
134
112
125
153

77
97
99
94
94

76
96
94
79
97

5
20
19
40
..

57
78
62
53
62

64
70
99
69
56

16
54
271
76
87

80-94
80-94
50-79
50-79
0-49

116
117
118
119
120

Tajikistan
Mongolia
Nicaragua
South Africa
Egypt

1.0
4.6
3.8
3.6
1.9

2.3
1.8
4.0
5.1
2.0

43
122
158
652
153

98
98
84
94
98

84
98
98
78
97

20
32
18
..
..

34
67
69
56
56

71
97
67
84
61

212
278
62
25
218

0-49
50-79
0-49
80-94
80-94

121
122
123
124
125

Guatemala
Gabon
São Tomé and Principe
Solomon Islands
Morocco

2.3
1.7
1.5
4.7
2.0

2.5
1.9
0.7
0.3
3.1

199
197
22
133
199

96
89
99
76
90

92
55
85
78
96

15
..
25
..
..

38
33
29
..
50

41
86
79
85
40

109
..
47
13
49

50-79
0-49
0-49
80-94
50-79

126
127
128
129
130

Namibia
India
Botswana
Vanuatu
Cambodia

4.7
0.9
4.4
2.3
1.8

2.2
4.2
2.2
1.6
10.0

342
80
381
107
184

83
81
99
90
63

68
67
90
44
52

8
..
..
..
..

..
48
40
..
24

78
43
94
89
32

29
51
29
12
16

80-94
0-49
80-94
..
0-49

131
132
133
134
135

Ghana
Myanmar
Papua New Guinea
Bhutan
Lao People’s Dem. Rep.

2.8
0.4
3.9
3.6
1.7

1.9
1.7
0.5
0.4
1.4

60
26
144
64
51

91
80
71
83
65

81
75
71
78
55

22
11
..
..
20

22
33
26
..
32

44
56
53
24
19

9
30
6
5
61

0-49
50-79
80-94
80-94
50-79

136
137
138
139
140
141

Comoros
Swaziland
Bangladesh
Sudan
Nepal
Cameroon

1.9
2.3
1.6
0.7
1.5
1.2

1.2
1.1
2.0
2.8
3.6
2.1

29
167
58
39
63
42

90
95
95
48
85
77

71
72
77
49
71
62

22
7
49
13
11
23

26
28
54
..
39
19

62
70
12
86
11
60

7
15
23
16
5
7

80-94
95-100
50-79
0-49
0-49
50-79

f

d

d

Low human development
142
143
144
145
146

Pakistan
Togo
Congo
Lesotho
Uganda

1.0
1.4
1.4
4.3
3.4

3.0
1.5
0.8
1.2
2.5

85
45
22
101
57

67
84
51
83
96

57
58
37
70
77

19
15
13
10
..

28
26
..
30
23

20
49
..
60
39

68
6
25
7
5

50-79
50-79
50-79
80-94
50-79

147
148
149
150
151

Zimbabwe
Kenya
Yemen
Madagascar
Nigeria

2.8
1.7
1.6
1.3
0.8

3.4
6.2
3.0
0.7
2.6

142
114
69
20
31

80
91
74
73
54

58
78
65
61
40

50
30
..
30
24

54
39
21
19
15

73
44
22
46
42

6
14
22
9
27

50-79
0-49
50-79
50-79
0-49

158

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

6 Commitment to
health:
resources, access
and services

HDI rank

MDG
One-year-olds
fully immunized
Health expenditure
Against
Against
Public
Private Per capita tuberculosis measles
(% of GDP) (% of GDP) (PPP US$)
(%)
(%)
2001
2001
2001
2002
2002

Oral
rehydration
therapy
use rate
(%)
19942002 c

Contraceptive
prevalence
rate a
(%)
19952002 c

MDG
MDG
Births
Population with
attended
sustainable
by skilled Physicians access to
health
(per
affordable
personnel 100,000
essential
(%)
people)
drugs b
19951990(%)
2002 c
2003 c
1999

152
153
154
155
156

Mauritania
Haiti
Djibouti
Gambia
Eritrea

2.6
2.7
4.1
3.2
3.7

1.0
2.4
2.9
3.3
2.0

45
56
90
78
36

98
71
52
99
91

81
53
62
90
84

..
..
..
27
30

8
27
..
10
8

57
24
..
55
21

14
25
13
4
5

50-79
0-49
80-94
80-94
50-79

157
158
159
160
161

Senegal
Timor-Leste
Rwanda
Guinea
Benin

2.8
5.8
3.1
1.9
2.1

2.0
4.0
2.5
1.6
2.4

63
..
44
61
39

70
83
99
71
94

54
47
69
54
78

33
7
4
21
35

13
..
13
6
19

58
24
31
35
66

10
..
2
13
10

50-79
..
0-49
80-94
50-79

162
163
164
165
166

Tanzania, U. Rep. of
Côte d’Ivoire
Zambia
Malawi
Angola

2.1
1.0
3.0
2.7
2.8

2.3
5.2
2.7
5.1
1.6

26
127
52
39
70

88
66
92
78
82

89
56
85
69
74

21
25
28
..
7

25
15
34
31
6

36
63
43
56
45

4
9
7
..
5

50-79
80-94
50-79
0-49
0-49

167
168
169
170
171

Chad
Congo, Dem. Rep. of the
Central African Republic
Ethiopia
Mozambique

2.0
1.5
2.3
1.4
4.0

0.6
1.9
2.2
2.1
1.9

17
12
58
14
47

67
55
70
76
78

55
45
35
52
58

36
11
34
..
27

8
31
28
8
6

16
61
44
6
44

3
7
4
3
2

0-49
..
50-79
50-79
50-79

172
173
174
175
176
177

Guinea-Bissau
Burundi
Mali
Burkina Faso
Niger
Sierra Leone

3.2
2.1
1.7
1.8
1.4
2.6

2.7
1.5
2.7
1.2
2.3
1.7

37
19
30
27
22
26

70
84
73
72
47
70

47
75
33
46
48
60

13
10
22
37
38
29

8
16
8
12
14
4

35
25
41
31
16
42

17
1
4
4
3
9

0-49
0-49
50-79
50-79
50-79
0-49

Developing countries
Least developed countries
Arab States
East Asia and the Pacific
Latin America and the Caribbean
South Asia
Sub-Saharan Africa
Central & Eastern Europe & the CIS
OECD
High-income OECD

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

80
76
86
79
95
81
73
97
..
..

72
62
82
79
91
68
58
96
90
90

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

55
33
67
73
83
37
42
97
95
99

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

High human development
Medium human development
Low human development

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
84
71

92
78
57

..
..
..

..
..
..

97
62
35

..
..
..

..
..
..

High income
Middle income
Low income

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
87
77

90
86
64

..
..
..

..
..
..

99
80
41

..
..
..

..
..
..

World

..

..

..

81

..

..

58

..

..

g

75

g

g

a. Data usually refer to married women ages 15-49; the actual age range covered may vary across countries. b. The data on access to essential drugs are based on statistical estimates received from World Health Organization (WHO) country and regional offices and regional advisers and through the World Drug Situation Survey carried out in 1998-99. These estimates represent the best information available to the WHO Department
of Essential Drugs and Medicines Policy to date and are currently being validated by WHO member states. The department assigns the estimates to four groupings: very low access (0-49%), low access (50-79%), medium
access (80-94%) and good access (95-100%). These groupings, used here in presenting the data, are often employed by the WHO in interpreting the data, as the actual estimates may suggest a higher level of accuracy
than the data afford. c. Data refer to the most recent year available during the period specified. d. Data refer to a year or period other than that specified, differ from the standard definition or refer to only part of a country.
e. Excluding Northern Ireland. f. Excluding the state of Tripura. g. Data refer to the world aggregate from UNICEF 2003b.
Source: Columns 1-3: WHO 2004b; columns 4-6 and 8: UNICEF 2003b; column 7: UN 2004g; column 9: WHO 2004d; column 10: WHO 2004a.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

159

7 Water,
sanitation
and nutritional
status

. . . TO LEAD A LONG AND HEALTHY LIFE . . .

MDG
Population with
sustainable access
to improved sanitation
(%)
1990
2000

HDI rank

MDG
Population with
sustainable access to an
improved water source
(%)
1990
2000

MDG
Undernourished people
(% of total population)
1990/92 a
1999/2001 a

MDG
Children
under
weight
for age
(% under
age 5)
1995-2002 b

Children
under
height
for age
(% under
age 5)
1995-2002 b

Infants
with low
birthweight
(%)
1998-2002 b

High human development
1
2
3
4
5

Norway
Sweden
Australia
Canada
Netherlands

..
100
100
100
100

..
100
100
100
100

100
100
100
100
100

100
100
100
100
100

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

5
4
7
6
..

6
7
8
9
10

Belgium
Iceland
United States
Japan
Ireland

..
..
100
..
..

..
..
100
..
..

..
..
100
..
..

..
..
100
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
1
..
..

..
..
2
..
..

8
4
8
8
6

11
12
13
14
15

Switzerland
United Kingdom
Finland
Austria
Luxembourg

100
100
100
100
..

100
100
100
100
..

100
100
100
100
..

100
100
100
100
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

6
8
4
7
8

16
17
18
19
20

France
Denmark
New Zealand
Germany
Spain

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
100
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

7
5
6
7
6

21
22
23
24
25

Italy
Israel
Hong Kong, China (SAR)
Greece
Singapore

..
..
..
..
100

..
..
..
..
100

..
..
..
..
100

..
..
..
..
100

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
14

..
..
..
..
11

6
8
..
8
8

26
27
28
29
30

Portugal
Slovenia
Korea, Rep. of
Barbados
Cyprus

..
..
..
..
100

..
..
63
100
100

..
100
..
..
100

..
100
92
100
100

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
6
..

31
32
33
34
35

Malta
Czech Republic
Brunei Darussalam
Argentina
Seychelles

100
..
..
82
..

100
..
..
..
..

100
..
..
94
..

100
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
1
..
5
6

36
37
38
39
40

Estonia
Poland
Hungary
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Bahrain

..
..
99
..
..

..
..
99
96
..

..
..
99
..
..

..
..
99
98
..

..
..
..
..
..

4
..
..
..
..

..
..
2
..
9

41
42
43
44
45

Lithuania
Slovakia
Chile
Kuwait
Costa Rica

..
..
97
..
..

..
100
96
..
93

..
..
90
..
..

..
100
93
..
95

..
..
8
22
7

..
5
4
4
6

..
..
1
10
5

..
..
2
24
6

4
7
5
7
7

46
47
48
49
50

Uruguay
Qatar
Croatia
United Arab Emirates
Latvia

..
..
..
..
..

94
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

98
..
..
..
..

6
..
..
4
..

3
..
12
..
6

5
6
1
14
..

8
8
1
17
..

8
10
6
15
5

160

c

c

c

c

c

c

..
..
..
7
..
..
2
..
12
5
..
..
3
..
10

c

c

c

c

c

c

8
6
4
10
..

c

c

c

6
7
10
7
..
4
6
9
9
8

c

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

7 Water,
sanitation
and nutritional
status
MDG
Population with
sustainable access
to improved sanitation
(%)
1990
2000

HDI rank
51
52
53
54
55

Bahamas
Cuba
Mexico
Trinidad and Tobago
Antigua and Barbuda

MDG
Population with
sustainable access to an
improved water source
(%)
1990
2000

MDG
Undernourished people
(% of total population)
1999/2001 a
1990/92 a

MDG
Children
under
weight
for age
(% under
age 5)
1995-2002 b

Children
under
height
for age
(% under
age 5)
1995-2002 b

..
..
70
99
..

100
98
74
99
95

..
..
80
91
..

97
91
88
90
91

..
8
5
13
..

..
11
5
12
..

..
4
8
7
10

..
..
97
..
..

100
..
97
..
..

..
..
71
..
..

100
99
72
..
..

..
..
..
3
..

16
4
..
..
10

..
3
5
12
6

..
13
15
..
7

10
6
7
10
5

..
..
..
100
..

92
..
..
99
91

..
..
..
100
..

90
100
100
100
97

20
..
..
6
..

26
3
..
5
4

7
..
..
15
14

14
..
..
10
32

10
5
0
13
3

..
..
..
..
..

..
93
68
53
99

..
..
..
..
..

..
82
83
58
98

..
13
11
..
..

8
11
18
..
4

4
13
5
6
3

10
10
13
8
15

4
13
7
9
5

c
c

..
5
18
5
7

Infants
with low
birthweight
(%)
1998-2002 b

c
c

7
6
9
23
8

Medium human development
56
57
58
59
60

Bulgaria
Russian Federation
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
Malaysia
Macedonia, TFYR

61
62
63
64
65

Panama
Belarus
Tonga
Mauritius
Albania

66
67
68
69
70

Bosnia and Herzegovina
Suriname
Venezuela
Romania
Ukraine

71
72
73
74
75

Saint Lucia
Brazil
Colombia
Oman
Samoa (Western)

..
71
83
84
..

89
76
86
92
99

..
83
94
37
..

98
87
91
39
99

..
12
17
..
..

..
9
13
..
..

14
6
7
24
..

c

76
77
78
79
80

Thailand
Saudi Arabia
Kazakhstan
Jamaica
Lebanon

79
..
..
99
..

96
100
99
99
99

80
..
..
93
..

84
95
91
92
100

28
4
..
14
3

19
3
22
9
3

19
14
4
6
3

c

81
82
83
84
85

Fiji
Armenia
Philippines
Maldives
Peru

..
..
74
..
60

43
..
83
56
71

..
..
87
..
74

47
..
86
100
80

..
..
26
..
40

..
51
22
..
11

8
3
28
30
7

c

86
87
88
89
90

Turkmenistan
St. Vincent & the Grenadines
Turkey
Paraguay
Jordan

..
..
87
93
98

..
96
90
94
99

..
..
79
63
97

..
93
82
78
96

..
..
..
18
4

7
..
3
13
6

12
..
8
5
5

22
..
16
11
8

6
10
16
9
10

91
92
93
94
95

Azerbaijan
Tunisia
Grenada
China
Dominica

..
76
..
29
..

81
84
97
40
83

..
75
..
71
..

78
80
95
75
97

..
..
..
17
..

21
..
..
11
..

7
4
..
11
5

13
12
..
16
6

11
7
9
6
10

Sri Lanka
Georgia
Dominican Republic
Belize
Ecuador

85
..
66
..
70

94
100
67
50
86

68
..
83
..
71

77
79
86
92
85

29
..
27
..
8

25
26
25
..
4

29
3
5
6
15

96
97
98
99
100

d

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

c
c

c

c

c
c

11
11
14
23
..

c

16
20
10
6
12

c

3
13
30
25
25

c

14
12
6
..
27

c

8
10
9
8
4
9
11
8
9
6
10
7
20
22
11

c

c

c

c

c

c

c
c

22
6
14
6
16

161

7 Water,
sanitation
and nutritional
status
MDG
Population with
sustainable access
to improved sanitation
(%)
1990
2000

HDI rank
101
102
103
104
105

Iran, Islamic Rep. of
Occupied Palestinian Territories
El Salvador
Guyana
Cape Verde

106
107
108
109
110

Syrian Arab Republic
Uzbekistan
Algeria
Equatorial Guinea
Kyrgyzstan

111
112
113
114
115

MDG
Population with
sustainable access to an
improved water source
(%)
1990
2000

MDG
Undernourished people
(% of total population)
1999/2001 a
1990/92 a

MDG
Children
under
weight
for age
(% under
age 5)
1995-2002 b

Children
under
height
for age
(% under
age 5)
1995-2002 b

..
..
73
..
..

83
100
82
87
71

..
..
66
..
..

92
86
77
94
74

5
..
12
21
..

5
..
14
14
..

11
4
12
14
14

..
..
..
..
..

90
89
92
53
100

..
..
..
..
..

80
85
89
44
77

5
..
5
..
..

4
26
6
..
7

7
19
6
19
11

18
31
18
39
25

6
7
7
13
7

Indonesia
Viet Nam
Moldova, Rep. of
Bolivia
Honduras

47
29
..
52
61

55
47
99
70
75

71
55
..
71
83

78
77
92
83
88

9
27
..
26
23

6
19
12
22
20

26
33
3
10
17

..
36
10
26
29

10
9
5
9
14

116
117
118
119
120

Tajikistan
Mongolia
Nicaragua
South Africa
Egypt

..
..
76
86
87

90
30
85
87
98

..
..
70
86
94

60
60
77
86
97

..
34
30
..
5

71
38
29
..
3

..
13
10
12
11

..
25
20
25
21

15
8
13
15
12

121
122
123
124
125

Guatemala
Gabon
São Tomé and Principe
Solomon Islands
Morocco

70
..
..
..
58

81
53
..
34
68

76
..
..
..
75

92
86
..
71
80

16
11
..
..
6

25
7
..
..
7

24
12
13
21
9

46
21
29
27
24

13
14
..
13
11

126
127
128
129
130

Namibia
India
Botswana
Vanuatu
Cambodia

33
16
60
..
..

41
28
66
100
17

72
68
93
..
..

77
84
95
88
30

20
25
18
..
43

7
21
24
..
38

24
47
13
20
45

131
132
133
134
135

Ghana
Myanmar
Papua New Guinea
Bhutan
Lao People’s Dem. Rep.

61
..
82
..
..

72
64
82
70
30

53
..
40
..
..

73
72
42
62
37

35
10
25
..
29

12
7
27
..
22

25
35
35
19
40

136
137
138
139
140
141

Comoros
Swaziland
Bangladesh
Sudan
Nepal
Cameroon

98
..
41
58
20
77

98
..
48
62
28
79

88
..
94
67
67
51

96
..
97
75
88
58

..
10
35
31
18
33

..
12
32
25
17
27

c

c

c

15
9
23
11
16

Infants
with low
birthweight
(%)
1998-2002 b

24
46
23
19
45

c

c

c

7
9
13
12
13

16
30
10
6
11

26
34
..
40
41

11
15
11
15
14

25
10
48
17
48
21

42
30
45
..
51
35

25
9
30
31
21
11

c

c
c

c
c
c

c

Low human development
142
143
144
145
146

Pakistan
Togo
Congo
Lesotho
Uganda

36
37
..
..
..

62
34
..
49
79

83
51
..
..
45

90
54
51
78
52

26
33
37
27
23

19
25
30
25
19

38
25
14
18
23

37
22
19
46
39

19
15
..
14
12

147
148
149
150
151

Zimbabwe
Kenya
Yemen
Madagascar
Nigeria

56
80
32
36
53

62
87
38
42
54

78
45
..
44
53

83
57
69
47
62

43
44
35
35
13

39
37
33
36
8

13
21
46
33
36

27
35
52
49
43

11
11
32
14
12

162

c

c

c

c

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

7 Water,
sanitation
and nutritional
status
MDG
Population with
sustainable access
to improved sanitation
(%)
1990
2000

HDI rank

MDG
Population with
sustainable access to an
improved water source
(%)
1990
2000

MDG
Undernourished people
(% of total population)
1990/92 a
1999/2001 a

MDG
Children
under
weight
for age
(% under
age 5)
1995-2002 b

Children
under
height
for age
(% under
age 5)
1995-2002 b

Infants
with low
birthweight
(%)
1998-2002 b

152
153
154
155
156

Mauritania
Haiti
Djibouti
Gambia
Eritrea

30
23
..
..
..

33
28
91
37
13

37
53
..
..
..

37
46
100
62
46

14
65
..
22
..

10
49
..
27
61

32
17
18
17
44

35
23
26
19
38

42
21
..
17
21

157
158
159
160
161

Senegal
Timor-Leste
Rwanda
Guinea
Benin

57
..
..
55
20

70
..
8
58
23

72
..
..
45
..

78
..
41
48
63

23
..
43
40
20

24
..
41
28
16

23
43
27
23
23

25
47
41
26
31

18
10
9
12
16

162
163
164
165
166

Tanzania, U. Rep. of
Côte d’Ivoire
Zambia
Malawi
Angola

84
46
63
73
..

90
52
78
76
44

38
80
52
49
..

68
81
64
57
38

35
18
45
49
61

43
15
50
33
49

29
21
28
25
31

44
25
47
49
45

13
17
10
16
12

167
168
169
170
171

Chad
Congo, Dem. Rep. of the
Central African Republic
Ethiopia
Mozambique

18
..
24
8
..

29
21
25
12
43

..
..
48
25
..

27
45
70
24
57

58
31
50
..
69

34
75
44
42
53

28
31
24
47
26

29
38
39
52
44

17
12
14
15
14

172
173
174
175
176
177

Guinea-Bissau
Burundi
Mali
Burkina Faso
Niger
Sierra Leone

44
87
70
..
15
..

56
88
69
29
20
66

..
69
55
..
53
..

56
78
65
42
59
57

..
49
25
22
42
46

..
70
21
17
34
50

25
45
33
34
40
27

30
57
38
37
40
34

22
16
23
19
17
..

Developing countries
Least developed countries
Arab States
East Asia and the Pacific
Latin America and the Caribbean
South Asia
Sub-Saharan Africa
Central & Eastern Europe & CIS
OECD
High-income OECD

..
..
..
..
72
22
54
..
..
..

51
44
83
48
77
37
53
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
82
72
52
..
..
..

78
62
86
76
86
85
57
93
..
..

21
35
13
..
14
26
31
..
..
..

17
37
13
..
11
22
32
10
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

High human development
Medium human development
Low human development

..
..
44

..
51
51

..
..
57

..
82
62

..
19
30

..
14
31

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

High income
Middle income
Low income

..
..
30

..
61
43

..
..
..

..
82
76

..
..
26

..
10
24

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..

61

..

82

..

..

..

..

..

World

e

e

c

c

c

a. Data refer to the average for the years specified. b. Data refer to the most recent year available during the period specified. c. Data refer to a year or period other than that specified, differ from the standard definition
or refer to only part of the country. d. Data from the World Bank 2004f. e. Data refer to the world aggregate from UNICEF 2003b.
Source: Columns 1 and 3: UN 2004d, based on a joint effort by the United Nations Children’s Fund and the World Health Organization; column 2, 4, 7-9: UNICEF 2003b, based on a joint effort by the United Nations
Children’s Fund and the World Health Organization; columns 5 and 6: FAO 2003.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

163

8 Leading global
health crises
and risks

HDI rank

. . . TO LEAD A LONG AND HEALTHY LIFE . . .

HIV prevalence a
(% ages 15-49)
2003

MDG
Condom use at
last high-risk sex b
(% ages 15-24)
Women
Men
199619962002 h
2002 h

MDG
Children under age 5
With fever
With
treated
MDG
insecticide- with antiMalaria
treated
malarial
cases c
bed nets
drugs
(per 100,000
(%)
(%)
people)
199919992000
2001 h
2001 h

MDG
Tuberculosis cases
Detected Cured
Per
under
under
100,000
DOTS
DOTS
people e
(%) f
(%) g
2002
2002
2001

Prevalence
of smoking d
(% of adults)
Women
Men
2000
2000

High human development
1
2
3
4
5

Norway
Sweden
Australia
Canada
Netherlands

0.1 [0.0-0.2]
0.1 [0.0-0.2]
0.1 [0.1-0.2]
0.3 [0.2-0.5]
0.2 [0.1-0.4]

..
..
..
72
..

..
..
..
72
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

5
4
6
5
7

26
59
25
52
54

87
62
66
67
..

32
19
18
23
29

31
19
21
27
37

6
7
8
9
10

Belgium
Iceland
United States
Japan
Ireland

0.2 [0.1-0.3]
0.2 [0.1-0.3]
0.6 [0.3-1.1]
<0.1 [<0.2]
0.1 [0.0-0.3]

..
..
65
..
..

..
..
65
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

11
3
4
44
13

64
48
87
33
..

64
67
70
75
..

26
..
22
13
31

30
..
26
53
32

11
12
13
14
15

Switzerland
United Kingdom
Finland
Austria
Luxembourg

0.4 [0.2-0.6]
0.1 [0.1-0.2]
<0.1 [<0.2]
0.3 [0.1-0.4]
0.2 [0.1-0.4]

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

8
12
10
12
11

..
..
..
41
69

..
..
..
64
..

28
26
20
19
..

39
27
27
30
..

16
17
18
19
20

France
Denmark
New Zealand
Germany
Spain

0.4 [0.2-0.7]
0.2 [0.1-0.3]
<0.1 [<0.2]
0.1 [0.1-0.2]
0.7 [0.3-1.1]

..
..
..
..
33

..
..
..
..
49

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

14
13
11
8
30

..
..
48
52
..

..
..
9
67
..

30
29
25
31
25

39
32
25
39
42

21
22
23
24
25

Italy
Israel
Hong Kong, China (SAR)
Greece
Singapore

0.5 [0.2-0.8]
0.1 [0.1-0.2]
0.1 [<0.2]
0.2 [0.1-0.3]
0.2 [0.1-0.5]

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

6
9
95
22
44

63
58
51
..
39

40
79
78
..
88

17
24
..
29
3

32
33
..
47
27

26
27
28
29
30

Portugal
Slovenia
Korea, Rep. of
Barbados
Cyprus

0.4 [0.2-0.7]
<0.1 [<0.2]
<0.1 [<0.2]
1.5 [0.4-5.4]
..

..
18
..
..
..

..
17
..
..
..

..
..
9
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

37
25
138
20
6

94
68
..
24
46

78
82
..
..
92

7
20
5
..
..

30
30
65
..
..

31
32
33
34
35

Malta
Czech Republic
Brunei Darussalam
Argentina
Seychelles

0.2 [0.1-0.3]
0.1 [<0.2]
<0.1 [<0.2]
0.7 [0.3-1.1]
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
1
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

5
13
58
61
52

44
57
121
51
60

100
73
56
64
67

..
22
..
34
..

..
36
..
47
..

36
37
38
39
40

Estonia
Poland
Hungary
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Bahrain

1.1 [0.4-2.1]
0.1 [0.0-0.2]
0.1 [0.0-0.2]
..
0.2 [0.1-0.3]

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

59
36
37
14
68

61
55
39
49
12

64
77
46
..
87

20
25
27
..
..

44
44
44
..
..

41
42
43
44
45

Lithuania
Slovakia
Chile
Kuwait
Costa Rica

0.1 [<0.2]
<0.1 [<0.2]
0.3 [0.2-0.5]
..
0.6 [0.3-1.0]

..
..
18
..
..

..
..
33
..
..

..
..
..
..
42

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

73
28
20
53
19

62
35
112
..
79

75
87
83
..
72

16
30
18
2
7

51
55
26
30
29

46
47
48
49
50

Uruguay
Qatar
Croatia
United Arab Emirates
Latvia

0.3 [0.2-0.5]
..
<0.1 [<0.2]
..
0.6 [0.3-1.0]

..
..
..
..
66

..
..
..
..
69

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

37
70
74
26
83

70
39
..
25
78

85
60
..
62
73

14
..
32
1
13

32
..
34
18
49

164

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

8 Leading global
health crises
and risks

MDG
Condom use at
last high-risk sex b
(% ages 15-24)
Women
Men
199619962002 h
2002 h

MDG
Children under age 5
With fever
With
treated
MDG
insecticide- with antiMalaria
treated
malarial
cases c
bed nets
drugs
(per 100,000
(%)
(%)
people)
199919992000
2001 h
2001 h

MDG
Tuberculosis cases
Detected Cured
Per
under
under
100,000
DOTS
DOTS
people e
(%) f
(%) g
2002
2002
2001

Prevalence
of smoking d
(% of adults)
Women
Men
2000
2000

HDI rank

HIV prevalence a
(% ages 15-49)
2003

51
52
53
54
55

3.0 [1.8-4.9]
0.1 [<0.2]
0.3 [0.1-0.4]
3.2 [1.2-8.3]
..

..
..
57
..
..

..
..
57
..
..

..
..
8
1
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

60
14
44
19
8

50
91
73
..
92

64
93
83
..
100

..
26
18
8
..

..
48
51
42
..

Bahamas
Cuba
Mexico
Trinidad and Tobago
Antigua and Barbuda

Medium human development
56
57
58
59
60

Bulgaria
Russian Federation
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
Malaysia
Macedonia, TFYR

<0.1 [<0.2]
1.1 [0.6-1.9]
0.3 [0.1-0.6]
0.4 [0.2-0.7]
<0.1 [<0.2]

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
1
2
57
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

60
181
20
120
54

43
6
..
78
37

87
67
..
79
88

24
10
..
4
32

49
63
..
49
40

61
62
63
64
65

Panama
Belarus
Tonga
Mauritius
Albania

0.9 [0.5-1.5]
0.5 [0.2-0.8]
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
26
..

36
..
..
1
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

50
125
41
137
41

88
..
164
25
24

65
..
92
93
98

20
5
..
3
18

56
55
..
45
60

66
67
68
69
70

Bosnia and Herzegovina
Suriname
Venezuela
Romania
Ukraine

<0.1 [<0.2]
1.7 [0.5-5.8]
0.7 [0.4-1.2]
<0.1 [<0.2]
1.4 [0.7-2.3]

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
2,954
94
..
..

..
3
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

65
103
54
189
143

47
..
65
41
..

98
..
80
78
..

..
..
39
25
19

..
..
42
62
51

71
72
73
74
75

Saint Lucia
Brazil
Colombia
Oman
Samoa (Western)

..
0.7 [0.3-1.1]
0.7 [0.4-1.2]
0.1 [0.0-0.2]
..

..
32
29
..
..

..
59
..
..
..

..
344
250
27
..

..
..
1
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

21
94
69
13
44

72
10
9
106
75

50
67
85
90
77

..
29
21
2
..

..
38
24
16
..

76
77
78
79
80

Thailand
Saudi Arabia
Kazakhstan
Jamaica
Lebanon

1.5 [0.8-2.8]
..
0.2 [0.1-0.3]
1.2 [0.6-2.2]
0.1 [0.0-0.2]

..
..
65
38
69

..
..
28
..
69

130
32
(.)
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

179
59
149
9
15

73
37
93
68
68

75
77
78
78
91

3
1
7
..
35

44
22
60
..
46

81
82
83
84
85

Fiji
Armenia
Philippines
Maldives
Peru

0.1 [0.0-0.2]
0.1 [0.1-0.2]
<0.1 [<0.2]
..
0.5 [0.3-0.9]

..
..
..
..
19

..
43
..
..
..

..
4
15
..
258

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

43
106
540
46
246

66
28
58
92
84

85
90
88
97
90

..
1
11
..
16

..
64
54
..
42

86
87
88
89
90

Turkmenistan
St. Vincent & the Grenadines
Turkey
Paraguay
Jordan

<0.1 [<0.2]
..
<0.1 [<0.2]
0.5 [0.2-0.8]
..

..
..
..
79
..

..
..
..
..
..

1
..
17
124
3

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

125
41
50
109
6

36
0
..
8
72

75
80
..
86
86

1
..
24
6
10

27
..
65
24
48

91
92
93
94
95

Azerbaijan
Tunisia
Grenada
China
Dominica

<0.1 [<0.2]
<0.1 [<0.2]
..
0.1 [0.1-0.2]
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

19
1
..
1
..

1
..
..
..
..

1
..
..
..
..

109
26
8
272
23

43
92
..
27
36

66
90
..
96
100

1
8
..
4
..

30
62
..
67
..

Sri Lanka
Georgia
Dominican Republic
Belize
Ecuador

<0.1 [<0.2]
0.2 [0.1-0.4]
1.7 [0.9-3.0]
2.4 [0.8-6.9]
0.3 [0.1-0.5]

..
0
12
..
..

44
..
48
..
..

1,110
5
6
657
728

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

73
99
125
55
210

79
50
43
117
31

80
67
85
66
82

2
15
17
..
17

26
61
24
..
46

96
97
98
99
100

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

i

165

8 Leading global
health crises
and risks

HDI rank

HIV prevalence a
(% ages 15-49)
2003

MDG
Condom use at
last high-risk sex b
(% ages 15-24)
Women
Men
199619962002 h
2002 h

MDG
Children under age 5
With fever
With
treated
MDG
insecticide- with antiMalaria
treated
malarial
cases c
bed nets
drugs
(per 100,000
(%)
(%)
people)
199919992000
2001 h
2001 h

MDG
Tuberculosis cases
Detected Cured
Per
under
under
100,000
DOTS
DOTS
people e
(%) f
(%) g
2002
2002
2001

Prevalence
of smoking d
(% of adults)
Women
Men
2000
2000

101
102
103
104
105

Iran, Islamic Rep. of
0.1 [0.1-0.2]
Occupied Palestinian Territories
..
El Salvador
0.7 [0.3-1.1]
Guyana
2.5 [0.8-7.7]
Cape Verde
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

27
..
11
3,074
..

..
..
..
8
..

..
..
..
3
..

37
38
83
157
352

60
..
57
11
31

84
..
88
90
42

3
..
12
..
..

27
..
38
..
..

106
107
108
109
110

Syrian Arab Republic
Uzbekistan
Algeria
Equatorial Guinea
Kyrgyzstan

<0.1 [<0.2]
0.1 [0.0-0.2]
0.1 [<0.2]
..
0.1 [<0.2]

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

(.)
1
2
2,744
(.)

..
..
..
1
..

..
..
..
49
..

54
134
51
362
164

42
24
114
..
45

81
76
84
..
81

10
9
7
..
16

51
49
44
..
60

111
112
113
114
115

Indonesia
Viet Nam
Moldova, Rep. of
Bolivia
Honduras

0.1 [0.0-0.2]
0.4 [0.2-0.7]
0.2 [0.1-0.3]
0.1 [0.0-0.2]
1.8 [1.0-3.2]

..
..
..
8
..

..
..
..
22
..

920
95
..
378
541

0
16
..
..
..

4
7
..
..
..

609
263
233
312
98

30
82
19
75
114

86
93
66
82
86

4
4
18
18
11

59
51
46
43
36

116
117
118
119
120

Tajikistan
Mongolia
Nicaragua
South Africa
Egypt

<0.1 [<0.2]
<0.1 [<0.2]
0.2 [0.1-0.3]
[17.8-24.3]
<0.1 [<0.2]

..
..
17
20
..

..
..
..
..
..

303
..
402
143
(.)

2
..
..
..
..

69
..
..
..
..

169
270
83
366
38

3
69
85
96
53

..
87
83
65
82

..
26
..
11
2

..
68
..
42
35

121
122
123
124
125

Guatemala
Gabon
São Tomé and Principe
Solomon Islands
Morocco

1.1 [0.6-1.8]
8.1 [4.1-15.3]
..
..
0.1 [0.0-0.2]

..
33
..
..
..

..
48
..
..
..

386
2,148
..
15,172
(.)

1
..
23
..
..

..
..
61
..
..

108
307
308
126
100

45
73
..
57
83

85
49
..
89
87

18
..
..
..
2

38
..
..
..
35

126
127
128
129
130

Namibia
India
Botswana
Vanuatu
Cambodia

21.3 [18.2-24.7]
[0.4-1.3]
37.3 [35.5-39.1]
..
2.6 [1.5-4.4]

..
40
75
..
43

..
51
88
..
..

1,502
7
48,704
3,260
476

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

478
344
338
147
734

76
31
73
37
52

68
85
78
88
92

35
3
..
..
8

65
29
..
..
66

131
132
133
134
135

Ghana
Myanmar
Papua New Guinea
Bhutan
Lao People’s Dem. Rep.

3.1 [1.9-5.0]
1.2 [0.6-2.2]
0.6 [0.3-1.0]
..
0.1 [<0.2]

20
..
..
..
..

33
..
..
..
..

15,344
224
1,688
285
759

..
..
..
..
..

61
..
..
..
..

371
176
543
205
359

41
73
15
31
43

42
81
67
93
77

4
22
28
..
15

28
44
46
..
41

136
137
138
139
140
141

Comoros
Swaziland
Bangladesh
Sudan
Nepal
Cameroon

..
38.8 [37.2-40.4]
[<0.2]
2.3 [0.7-7.2]
0.3 [0.2-0.5]
6.9 [4.8-9.8]

..
..
..
..
..
16

..
..
..
..
52
31

1,930
2,835
40
13,934
33
2,900

9
0
..
0
..
1

63
26
..
50
..
66

121
769
447
346
271
238

..
31
32
33
64
60

..
36
84
80
88
62

..
2
24
1
29
..

..
25
54
24
48
..

..
2
..
..
0

..
60
..
..
..

379
688
435
449
550

13
6
69
61
47

77
55
66
71
56

9
..
..
1
17

36
..
..
39
52

..
3
..
0
..

..
65
..
61
..

452
579
145
407
565

46
49
49
62
12

71
80
80
69
79

1
32
29
..
2

34
67
60
..
15

i
j

k

k

Low human development
142
143
144
145
146

Pakistan
Togo
Congo
Lesotho
Uganda

0.1 [0.0-0.2]
4.1 [2.7-6.4]
4.9 [2.1-11.0]
28.9 [26.3-31.7]
4.1 [2.8-6.6]

..
22
12
..
44

..
41
..
..
62

58
7,701
5,880
0
46

147
148
149
150
151

Zimbabwe
Kenya
Yemen
Madagascar
Nigeria

24.6 [21.7-27.8]
6.7 [4.7-9.6]
0.1 [0.0-0.2]
1.7 [0.8-2.7]
5.4 [3.6-8.0]

42
14
..
13
21

69
43
..
..
38

5,410
545
15,160
..
30

166

k

i

i

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

8 Leading global
health crises
and risks

MDG
Condom use at
last high-risk sex b
(% ages 15-24)
Women
Men
199619962002 h
2002 h

MDG
Children under age 5
With fever
With
treated
MDG
insecticide- with antiMalaria
treated
malarial
cases c
bed nets
drugs
(per 100,000
(%)
(%)
people)
199919992000
2001 h
2001 h

HDI rank

HIV prevalence a
(% ages 15-49)
2003

152
153
154
155
156

Mauritania
Haiti
Djibouti
Gambia
Eritrea

0.6 [0.3-1.1]
5.6 [2.5-11.9]
..
1.2 [0.3-4.2]
2.7 [0.9-7.3]

..
19
..
..
..

..
30
..
..
..

11,150
15
715
17,340
3,479

157
158
159
160
161

Senegal
Timor-Leste
Rwanda
Guinea
Benin

0.8 [0.4-1.7]
..
5.1 [3.4-7.6]
3.2 [1.2-8.2]
1.9 [1.1-3.3]

..
..
23
17
19

..
..
55
32
34

11,925
..
6,510
75,386
10,697

162
163
164
165
166

Tanzania, U. Rep. of
Côte d’Ivoire
Zambia
Malawi
Angola

8.8 [6.4-11.9]
7.0 [4.9-10.0]
16.5 [13.5-20.0]
14.2 [11.3-17.7]
3.9 [1.6-9.4]

21
25
33
32
..

31
56
42
38
..

1,207
12,152
34,204
25,948
8,773

167
168
169
170
171

Chad
Congo, Dem. Rep. of the
Central African Republic
Ethiopia
Mozambique

4.8 [3.1-7.2]
4.2 [1.7-9.9]
13.5 [8.3-21.2]
[3.9-8.5]
12.2 [9.4-15.7]

3
13
..
17
..

2
..
..
30
..

172
173
174
175
176
177

Guinea-Bissau
Burundi
Mali
Burkina Faso
Niger
Sierra Leone

..
6.0 [4.1-8.8]
1.9 [0.6-5.9]
4.2 [2.7-6.5]
1.2 [0.7-2.3]
..

..
..
14
41
..
..

Developing countries
Least developed countries
Arab States
East Asia and the Pacific
Latin America and the Caribbean
South Asia
Sub-Saharan Africa
Central & Eastern Europe & CIS
OECD
High-income OECD

1.2 [1.0-1.6]
3.4 [2.6-4.8]
0.3 [0.1-0.5]
0.2 [0.1-0.3]
0.7 [0.4-1.0]
0.6 [0.3-1.0]
7.7 [6.3-9.7]
0.6 [0.3-0.9]
0.3 [0.2-0.5]
..

High human development
Medium human development
Low human development

i

MDG
Tuberculosis cases
Detected Cured
Per
under
under
100,000
DOTS
DOTS
people e
(%) f
(%) g
2002
2002
2001

Prevalence
of smoking d
(% of adults)
Women
Men
2000
2000

..
..
..
15
..

..
12
..
55
4

437
392
1,161
325
480

..
41
45
73
14

..
75
78
71
80

..
9
..
2
..

..
11
..
34
..

2
..
5
..
7

36
..
13
..
60

438
734
598
375
131

54
59
29
54
98

53
73
..
74
79

..
..
4
44
..

..
..
7
60
..

i

2
1
1
3
2

53
58
58
27
63

472
634
588
462
398

43
25
40
36
91

81
73
75
70
66

12
2
10
9
..

50
42
35
20
..

197
2,960
2,207
556
18,115

i

1
1
2
..
..

32
45
69
3
..

388
594
438
508
547

42
52
49
33
45

..
77
61
76
77

..
6
..
..
..

24
..
..
..
..

..
..
30
55
..
..

2,421
48,098
4,008
619
1,693
..

i

7
1
..
..
1
2

58
31
..
..
48
61

316
531
695
272
386
628

43
28
15
18
..
36

51
80
50
65
..
80

..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

307
449
131
313
92
343
495
132
25
21

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

0.3 [0.2-0.5]
0.7 [0.5-1.0]
5.0 [4.0-6.6]

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

26
278
480

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

High income
Middle income
Low income

0.3 [0.2-0.5]
0.7 [0.5-0.8]
1.8 [1.2-2.9]

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

22
197
405

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

World

1.1 [0.9-1.5]

..

..

..

..

..

257

..

..

..

..

i
i
k

l

i
m
j

k

k

a. Data refer to point and range estimates based on new estimation models developed by the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS). Range estimates are presented in square brackets. b. Because of
data limitations, comparisons across countries should be made with caution. Data for some countries may refer to only part of the country or differ from the standard definition. c. Data refer to malaria cases reported to
the World Health Organization (WHO) and may represent only a fraction of the true number in a country. d. The age range varies across countries but in most is 18 and older or 15 and older. e. Data refer to the prevalence of all forms of tuberculosis. f. Calculated by dividing the new smear-positive cases of tuberculosis detected under the directly observed treatment, short course (DOTS) case detection and treatment strategy by the
estimated annual incidence of new smear-positive cases. Values can exceed 100% because of intense case detection in an area with a backlog of chronic cases, overreporting (for example, double counting), overdiagnosis or underestimation of incidence (WHO 2003). g. Data refer to the percentage of new smear-positive cases registered for treatment under the DOTS case detection and treatment strategy in 2001 that were successfully treated. h. Data refer to the most recent year available during the period specified. i. Data refer to 1999. j. Data refer to 1995. k. Data refer to 1998. l. Data refer to 1997. m. Data refer to 1994.
Source: Column 1: UNAIDS 2004; aggregates calculated for the Human Development Report Office by the UNAIDS; columns 2 and 3: UNICEF 2003b, based on data from a joint effort by the United Nations Children’s
Fund (UNICEF), UNAIDS and the WHO; column 4: UN 2004e, based on data from the WHO; columns 5 and 6: UNICEF 2003b; columns 7-9: WHO 2004e; columns 10 and 11: World Bank 2004f, based on data from
the WHO and the National Tobacco Information Online System.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

167

. . . TO LEAD A LONG AND HEALTHY LIFE . . .

9 Survival:
progress and
setbacks

Life expectancy at birth
(years)
1970-75 c
2000-05 c

HDI rank

MDG
Infant mortality rate
(per 1,000 live births)
1970
2002

MDG
Under-five
mortality rate
(per 1,000 live births)
1970
2002

Probability at birth of
surviving to age 65 a
Female
Male
(% of cohort) (% of cohort)
2000-05 c
2000-05 c

MDG
Maternal mortality b
Ratio
Ratio
reported
adjusted
(per 100,000 (per 100,000
live births)
live births)
1985-2002 d
2000

High human development
1
2
3
4
5

Norway
Sweden
Australia
Canada
Netherlands

74.4
74.7
71.7
73.2
74.0

78.9
80.1
79.2
79.3
78.3

13
11
17
19
13

4
3
6
5
5

15
15
20
23
15

4
3
6
7
5

90.8
91.6
90.7
90.1
89.7

83.5
86.1
83.8
83.9
83.5

6
5
..
..
7

16
2
8
6
16

6
7
8
9
10

Belgium
Iceland
United States
Japan
Ireland

71.4
74.3
71.5
73.3
71.3

78.8
79.8
77.1
81.6
77.0

21
13
20
14
20

5
3
7
3
6

29
14
26
21
27

6
4
8
5
6

90.4
90.7
86.4
93.0
89.0

82.5
85.9
78.1
85.0
82.0

..
..
8
8
6

10
0
17
10
5

11
12
13
14
15

Switzerland
United Kingdom
Finland
Austria
Luxembourg

73.8
72.0
70.7
70.6
70.7

79.1
78.2
78.0
78.5
78.4

15
18
13
26
19

5
5
4
5
5

18
23
16
33
26

6
7
5
5
5

91.0
89.4
91.1
90.7
89.8

82.9
83.2
79.9
81.6
82.7

5
7
6
..
0

7
13
6
4
28

16
17
18
19
20

France
Denmark
New Zealand
Germany
Spain

72.4
73.6
71.7
71.0
72.9

79.0
76.6
78.3
78.3
79.3

18
14
17
22
27

4
4
6
4
4

24
19
20
26
34

6
4
6
5
6

91.0
86.5
88.3
90.2
92.2

80.2
79.8
82.6
81.7
82.3

10
10
15
8
0

17
5
7
8
4

21
22
23
24
25

Italy
Israel
Hong Kong, China (SAR)
Greece
Singapore

72.1
71.6
72.0
72.3
69.5

78.7
79.2
79.9
78.3
78.1

30
24
..
38
22

4
6
..
5
3

33
27
..
54
27

6
6
..
5
4

91.4
90.5
92.3
91.5
90.5

82.4
86.2
84.4
82.3
83.3

7
5
..
1
6

5
17
..
9
30

26
27
28
29
30

Portugal
Slovenia
Korea, Rep. of
Barbados
Cyprus

68.0
69.8
62.6
69.4
71.4

76.2
76.3
75.5
77.2
78.3

53
25
43
40
29

5
4
5
12
5

62
29
54
54
33

6
5
5
14
6

89.3
88.7
89.0
89.0
90.8

77.4
76.2
73.9
82.2
83.9

8
17
20
0
0

5
17
20
95
47

31
32
33
34
35

Malta
Czech Republic
Brunei Darussalam
Argentina
Seychelles

70.6
70.1
68.3
67.1
..

78.4
75.4
76.3
74.2
..

25
21
58
59
..

5
4
6
16
12

32
24
78
71
..

5
5
6
19
16

90.2
88.3
87.9
85.3
..

85.5
74.8
84.8
72.3
..

..
3
0
41
..

0
9
37
82
..

36
37
38
39
40

Estonia
Poland
Hungary
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Bahrain

70.5
70.5
69.3
..
63.3

71.7
73.9
71.9
..
74.0

21
32
36
..
55

10
8
8
20
13

26
36
39
..
75

12
9
9
24
16

83.7
86.5
82.6
..
84.8

59.9
68.8
62.7
..
78.1

46
4
5
130
46

63
13
16
..
28

41
42
43
44
45

Lithuania
Slovakia
Chile
Kuwait
Costa Rica

71.3
70.0
63.4
67.0
67.8

72.7
73.7
76.1
76.6
78.1

23
25
78
49
62

8
8
10
9
9

28
29
98
59
83

9
9
12
10
11

84.9
86.5
86.3
87.2
88.3

62.8
68.9
76.8
82.3
81.1

13
16
23
5
29

13
3
31
5
43

46
47
48
49
50

Uruguay
Qatar
Croatia
United Arab Emirates
Latvia

68.7
62.1
69.6
62.2
70.1

75.3
72.2
74.2
74.7
71.0

48
45
34
61
21

14
11
7
8
17

57
65
42
83
26

15
16
8
9
21

85.8
80.3
86.3
86.6
82.8

73.2
72.8
71.1
80.0
59.2

26
5
2
3
25

27
7
8
54
42

168

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

9 Survival:
progress and
setbacks

Life expectancy at birth
(years)
1970-75 c
2000-05 c

HDI rank
51
52
53
54
55

Bahamas
Cuba
Mexico
Trinidad and Tobago
Antigua and Barbuda

MDG
Infant mortality rate
(per 1,000 live births)
1970
2002

MDG
Under-five
mortality rate
(per 1,000 live births)
1970
2002

Probability at birth of
surviving to age 65 a
Female
Male
(% of cohort) (% of cohort)
2000-05 c
2000-05 c

MDG
Maternal mortality b
Ratio
Ratio
reported
adjusted
(per 100,000 (per 100,000
live births)
live births)
1985-2002 d
2000

66.5
70.7
62.4
65.9
..

67.1
76.7
73.4
71.3
..

38
34
79
49
..

13
7
24
17
12

49
43
110
57
..

16
9
29
20
14

69.6
85.1
82.1
78.8
..

56.8
79.1
71.5
67.5
..

..
30
79
70
150

60
33
83
160
..

Medium human development
56
57
58
59
60

Bulgaria
Russian Federation
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
Malaysia
Macedonia, TFYR

71.0
69.7
52.8
63.0
67.5

70.9
66.8
72.8
73.1
73.6

28
29
105
46
85

14
18
16
8
22

32
36
160
63
120

16
21
19
8
26

83.2
78.0
81.5
83.9
84.1

64.9
48.4
73.4
73.3
75.8

15
37
77
30
15

32
67
97
41
23

61
62
63
64
65

Panama
Belarus
Tonga
Mauritius
Albania

66.2
71.5
62.6
62.9
67.7

74.7
70.1
68.6
72.0
73.7

46
22
..
64
68

19
17
16
17
26

68
27
..
86
82

25
20
20
19
30

85.1
81.6
73.0
82.4
87.7

76.3
56.4
69.9
66.6
80.1

70
14
..
21
20

160
35
..
24
55

66
67
68
69
70

Bosnia and Herzegovina
Suriname
Venezuela
Romania
Ukraine

67.5
64.0
65.7
69.2
70.1

74.0
71.1
73.7
70.5
69.7

60
..
47
46
22

15
31
19
19
16

82
..
61
57
27

18
40
22
21
20

85.2
79.6
83.5
81.5
81.1

74.1
68.4
73.2
63.7
56.5

10
110
60
34
18

31
110
96
49
35

71
72
73
74
75

Saint Lucia
Brazil
Colombia
Oman
Samoa (Western)

65.3
59.5
61.6
52.1
56.1

72.5
68.1
72.2
72.4
70.0

..
95
69
126
106

17
30
19
11
20

..
135
108
200
160

19
36
23
13
25

77.4
76.5
80.8
82.4
78.2

71.2
59.7
70.9
75.4
65.1

30
160
78
23
..

..
260
130
87
130

76
77
78
79
80

Thailand
Saudi Arabia
Kazakhstan
Jamaica
Lebanon

61.0
53.9
64.4
69.0
65.0

69.3
72.3
66.3
75.7
73.5

74
118
..
49
45

24
23
61
17
28

102
185
..
64
54

28
28
76
20
32

79.9
81.1
76.7
85.4
83.6

62.4
75.7
53.1
78.9
77.2

36
..
50
97
100

44
23
210
87
150

81
82
83
84
85

Fiji
Armenia
Philippines
Maldives
Peru

60.6
72.5
58.1
51.4
55.4

69.8
72.4
70.0
67.4
69.8

50
..
60
157
115

17
30
29
58
30

61
..
90
255
178

21
35
38
77
39

75.1
85.4
78.0
69.5
77.0

67.3
70.3
69.9
69.5
68.0

38
22
170
350
190

75
55
200
110
410

86
87
88
89
90

Turkmenistan
St. Vincent & the Grenadines
Turkey
Paraguay
Jordan

60.7
61.6
57.9
65.9
56.5

67.1
74.1
70.5
70.9
71.0

..
..
150
57
77

76
22
36
26
27

..
..
201
76
107

98
25
42
30
33

74.2
84.2
81.0
79.8
77.3

60.6
78.6
71.0
71.4
71.2

9
93
130
190
41

31
..
70
170
41

91
92
93
94
95

Azerbaijan
Tunisia
Grenada
China
Dominica

69.0
55.6
..
63.2
..

72.2
72.8
..
71.0
..

..
135
..
85
..

74
21
20
31
13

..
201
..
120
..

105
26
25
39
15

81.3
84.6
..
81.3
..

68.0
75.2
..
72.7
..

25
69
1
53
67

94
120
..
56
..

Sri Lanka
Georgia
Dominican Republic
Belize
Ecuador

65.1
69.2
59.7
67.6
58.8

72.6
73.6
66.7
71.4
70.8

65
36
91
56
87

17
24
32
34
25

100
46
128
77
140

19
29
38
40
29

84.6
85.6
72.0
77.9
78.6

73.5
69.2
62.3
72.5
70.3

92
67
230
140
160

92
32
150
140
130

96
97
98
99
100

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

169

9 Survival:
progress and
setbacks

Life expectancy at birth
(years)
1970-75 c
2000-05 c

HDI rank

MDG
Infant mortality rate
(per 1,000 live births)
1970
2002

MDG
Under-five
mortality rate
(per 1,000 live births)
1970
2002

Probability at birth of
surviving to age 65 a
Female
Male
(% of cohort) (% of cohort)
2000-05 c
2000-05 c

MDG
Maternal mortality b
Ratio
Ratio
reported
adjusted
(per 100,000 (per 100,000
live births)
live births)
1985-2002 d
2000

101
102
103
104
105

Iran, Islamic Rep. of
Occupied Palestinian Territories
El Salvador
Guyana
Cape Verde

55.3
56.6
58.2
60.0
57.5

70.3
72.4
70.7
63.2
70.2

122
..
111
81
..

35
23
33
54
29

191
..
162
101
..

42
25
39
72
38

79.5
81.6
77.6
67.1
79.5

71.8
75.1
67.3
54.8
68.1

37
..
120
190
76

76
100
150
170
150

106
107
108
109
110

Syrian Arab Republic
Uzbekistan
Algeria
Equatorial Guinea
Kyrgyzstan

57.0
64.2
54.5
40.5
63.1

71.9
69.7
69.7
49.1
68.6

90
..
143
165
111

23
52
39
101
52

129
..
234
281
146

28
68
49
152
61

80.0
76.9
76.9
44.2
77.2

74.7
65.7
72.8
39.2
61.5

110
34
140
..
44

160
24
140
880
110

111
112
113
114
115

Indonesia
Viet Nam
Moldova, Rep. of
Bolivia
Honduras

49.2
50.3
64.8
46.7
53.8

66.8
69.2
68.9
63.9
68.9

104
55
46
147
116

33
30
27
56
32

172
81
61
243
170

45
39
32
71
42

72.5
77.2
76.4
68.0
73.4

64.2
68.8
60.2
60.0
65.4

380
95
44
390
110

230
130
36
420
110

116
117
118
119
120

Tajikistan
Mongolia
Nicaragua
South Africa
Egypt

63.4
53.8
55.1
53.7
52.1

68.8
63.9
69.5
47.7
68.8

78
..
113
..
157

53
58
32
52
35

111
..
165
..
235

72
71
41
65
41

75.4
67.4
75.2
37.4
78.0

66.2
57.6
66.5
24.9
67.9

45
160
120
150
84

100
110
230
230
84

121
122
123
124
125

Guatemala
Gabon
São Tomé and Principe
Solomon Islands
Morocco

53.7
48.7
56.5
55.6
52.9

65.8
56.6
69.9
69.2
68.7

115
..
..
71
119

36
60
75
20
39

168
..
..
99
184

49
91
118
24
43

70.5
52.0
79.1
76.0
77.1

59.0
48.6
68.9
70.2
69.4

190
520
..
550
230

240
420
..
130
220

126
127
128
129
130

Namibia
India
Botswana
Vanuatu
Cambodia

49.9
50.3
56.1
54.0
40.3

44.3
63.9
39.7
68.8
57.4

104
127
99
107
..

55
67
80
34
96

155
202
142
160
..

67
93
110
42
138

30.8
67.5
21.7
73.1
56.9

24.7
61.9
17.3
66.3
47.6

270
540
330
68
440

300
540
100
130
450

131
132
133
134
135

Ghana
Myanmar
Papua New Guinea
Bhutan
Lao People’s Dem. Rep.

49.9
49.3
44.7
43.2
40.4

57.9
57.3
57.6
63.2
54.5

112
122
106
156
145

57
77
70
74
87

190
179
147
267
218

100
109
94
94
100

55.8
58.9
51.5
66.1
52.9

50.1
47.7
45.0
61.1
47.8

210
230
370
260
530

540
360
300
420
650

136
137
138
139
140
141

Comoros
Swaziland
Bangladesh
Sudan
Nepal
Cameroon

48.9
47.3
45.2
43.6
43.3
45.7

60.8
34.4
61.4
55.6
59.9
46.2

159
132
145
104
165
127

59
106
51
64
66
95

215
196
239
172
250
215

79
149
77
94
91
166

61.8
15.2
61.1
54.6
57.6
36.8

55.3
11.0
57.9
48.3
56.4
31.7

..
230
380
550
540
430

480
370
380
590
740
730

Low human development
142
143
144
145
146

Pakistan
Togo
Congo
Lesotho
Uganda

49.0
45.5
55.0
49.5
46.3

61.0
49.7
48.2
35.1
46.2

120
128
100
128
100

83
79
81
64
82

181
216
160
190
170

107
141
108
87
141

61.9
42.6
37.5
19.2
33.5

60.0
36.9
31.1
8.5
30.6

530
480
..
..
510

500
570
510
550
880

147
148
149
150
151

Zimbabwe
Kenya
Yemen
Madagascar
Nigeria

56.0
50.9
39.8
44.9
44.0

33.1
44.6
60.0
53.6
51.5

86
96
194
109
120

76
78
79
84
110

138
156
303
180
201

123
122
107
136
183

8.3
30.6
60.0
51.5
44.5

9.2
26.1
54.5
46.7
42.0

700
590
350
490
..

1,100
1,000
570
550
800

170

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

9 Survival:
progress and
setbacks

Life expectancy at birth
(years)
1970-75 c
2000-05 c

HDI rank

MDG
Infant mortality rate
(per 1,000 live births)
1970
2002

MDG
Under-five
mortality rate
(per 1,000 live births)
1970
2002

Probability at birth of
surviving to age 65 a
Female
Male
(% of cohort) (% of cohort)
2000-05 c
2000-05 c

MDG
Maternal mortality b
Ratio
Ratio
reported
adjusted
(per 100,000 (per 100,000
live births)
live births)
1985-2002 d
2000

152
153
154
155
156

Mauritania
Haiti
Djibouti
Gambia
Eritrea

43.4
48.5
41.0
38.0
44.3

52.5
49.5
45.7
54.1
52.7

150
148
160
183
..

120
79
100
91
47

250
221
241
319
..

183
123
143
126
89

50.5
36.1
37.1
51.3
43.7

44.4
34.5
33.2
45.8
35.4

750
520
74
..
1,000

1,000
680
730
540
630

157
158
159
160
161

Senegal
Timor-Leste
Rwanda
Guinea
Benin

41.8
40.0
44.6
37.3
44.0

52.9
49.5
39.3
49.1
50.6

164
..
124
197
149

79
89
96
109
93

279
..
209
345
252

138
126
183
169
156

52.5
44.0
24.1
42.8
47.8

40.0
39.1
22.7
40.3
38.8

560
..
1,100
530
500

690
660
1,400
740
850

162
163
164
165
166

Tanzania, U. Rep. of
Côte d’Ivoire
Zambia
Malawi
Angola

46.5
45.4
49.7
41.0
38.0

43.3
41.0
32.4
37.5
40.1

129
158
109
189
180

104
102
108
114
154

218
239
181
330
300

165
176
192
183
260

29.2
25.5
10.6
21.3
31.1

26.1
24.8
11.3
19.7
26.4

530
600
650
1,100
..

1,500
690
750
1,800
1,700

167
168
169
170
171

Chad
Congo, Dem. Rep. of the
Central African Republic
Ethiopia
Mozambique

39.0
45.8
43.0
41.8
41.1

44.7
41.8
39.5
45.5
38.1

..
148
149
160
163

117
129
115
114
125

..
245
248
239
278

200
205
180
171
197

36.4
31.4
24.0
35.8
26.3

32.4
27.9
21.0
32.3
19.8

830
950
1,100
870
1,100

1,100
990
1,100
850
1,000

172
173
174
175
176
177

Guinea-Bissau
Burundi
Mali
Burkina Faso
Niger
Sierra Leone

36.5
43.9
38.2
41.2
38.2
35.0

45.3
40.9
48.6
45.7
46.2
34.2

..
138
225
163
197
206

130
114
122
107
156
165

..
233
400
290
330
363

211
190
222
207
265
284

39.4
26.6
41.0
34.5
39.9
23.5

33.7
25.1
37.3
32.1
37.6
19.4

910
..
580
480
590
1,800

1,100
1,000
1,200
1,000
1,600
2,000

Developing countries
Least developed countries
Arab States
East Asia and the Pacific
Latin America and the Caribbean
South Asia
Sub-Saharan Africa
Central & Eastern Europe & CIS
OECD
High-income OECD

55.5
43.8
51.9
60.5
61.1
49.8
45.2
69.2
70.4
71.6

64.7
50.7
66.4
69.9
70.6
63.3
46.1
69.6
77.2
78.4

108
150
128
84
86
129
139
34
40
22

61
99
48
32
27
69
108
18
11
5

166
244
197
122
123
206
231
43
53
28

89
157
62
42
34
95
178
22
14
7

69.2
44.7
72.5
79.0
78.7
66.4
36.1
80.6
88.1
89.5

62.0
40.7
65.6
70.0
66.5
61.4
32.0
58.8
78.7
80.9

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

High human development
Medium human development
Low human development

70.7
57.8
45.0

77.5
67.3
49.1

32
102
138

9
45
104

42
154
225

11
61
164

88.4
74.3
41.2

78.9
65.2
38.5

..
..
..

..
..
..

High income
Middle income
Low income

71.6
62.9
48.7

78.4
70.1
59.2

22
85
126

5
30
80

28
121
202

7
37
120

89.5
79.5
59.1

80.9
68.4
54.1

..
..
..

..
..
..

World

59.8

66.9

96

56

146

81

72.9

64.4

..

..

a. Data refer to the probability at birth of surviving to age 65, multiplied by 100. b. Annual number of deaths of women from pregnancy-related causes. The reported column shows figures reported by national authorities. The adjusted column shows results of adjusted figures based on reviews by the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), World Health Organization (WHO) and United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) to account
for well-documented problems of underreporting and misclassification. c. Data refer to estimates for the period specified. d. Data refer to the most recent year available during the period specified.
Source: Columns 1, 2, 7 and 8: UN 2003; columns 3 and 5: UNICEF 2004; columns 4, 6, 9 and 10: UNICEF 2003b.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

171

. . . TO ACQUIRE KNOWLEDGE . . .

10 Commitment
to education:
public
spending
Public expenditure on education by level b
Public expenditure on
(% of all levels)
As % of total
Pre-primary
As % of GDP
government expenditure
and primary
Secondary
Tertiary
1990 c
1999-2001 d
1990 c
1999-2001 d
1990 c
1999-2001 d
1990 c
1999-2001 d
1990 c
1999-2001 d
education a

HDI rank
High human development

24.7
19.6
57.4
62.2
37.7

20.6
37.7
40.1
..
39.7

e

15.2
13.2
32.0
28.6
32.1

25.4
28.0
22.9
35.7
26.5

42.9
25.6
..
..
40.1

45.0
..
34.5
39.8
34.1

e

16.5
14.9
..
..
20.4

19.2
..
26.3
15.1
30.3

35.3
34.4
27.0
27.0
..

25.1
43.8
39.4
46.6
..

39.0
48.4
40.0
45.0
..

19.7
19.6
23.9
19.1
..

23.1
17.2
32.9
24.0
..

27.3
..
30.5
..
29.3

31.2
29.6
30.6
22.8
35.4

40.7
..
25.3
..
45.0

49.8
36.7
40.1
49.0
41.8

13.8
..
37.4
..
15.4

17.6
30.0
24.7
24.5
22.8

9.5
..
21.9
7.0
..

33.0
43.0
26.6
34.1
29.6

33.8
45.2
25.1
30.2
..

63.2
31.3
38.8
45.1
36.5

48.7
29.7
32.7
40.7
..

..
16.2
30.8
19.5
29.3

16.4
17.9
33.2
24.0
..

..
..
22.4
22.2
11.3

12.7
..
17.4
16.7
..

44.6
..
44.4
37.5
38.5

35.2
..
42.3
33.4
32.6

32.5
..
34.1
37.6
50.3

43.0
..
37.3
33.9
50.3

16.3
..
7.4
19.2
3.8

18.1
..
13.5
29.9
17.1

8.3
..
..
10.9
14.8

..
9.7
9.1
13.7
..

25.1
..
24.1
3.4
28.2

..
26.4
..
43.3
..

44.7
..
26.1
44.9
40.7

..
50.5
..
35.6
..

14.6
..
9.5
46.7
9.5

..
19.3
..
18.4
..

7.4
5.4
5.1
7.7
..

..
..
7.8
..
14.6

..
12.2
14.1
14.7
..

..
42.8
55.4
..
..

44.5
44.8
32.0
28.5
..

..
17.5
23.9
..
45.8

34.1
38.0
38.8
31.5
..

..
22.0
15.2
..
..

16.8
16.0
21.6
21.2
..

4.6
5.1
2.5
4.8
4.4

..
4.1
3.9
..
4.7

13.8
..
10.4
3.4
20.8

..
13.8
17.5
..
21.1

..
..
60.1
53.4
..

..
25.8
51.2
..
50.1

..
..
17.3
13.6
..

..
51.3
34.3
..
30.7

..
..
20.3
16.0
..

..
20.5
14.5
..
19.2

3.0
3.5
..
1.9
3.8

2.5
..
4.2
..
5.9

15.9
..
..
14.6
10.8

11.8
..
..
..
..

37.5
..
..
..
11.2

39.2
..
..
51.9
33.3

30.3
..
..
..
56.3

31.5
..
..
46.4
48.7

22.6
..
..
..
11.6

29.2
..
..
..
16.3

1
2
3
4
5

Norway
Sweden
Australia
Canada
Netherlands

7.1
7.4
5.1
6.5
6.0

6.8
7.6
4.6
5.2
5.0

14.6
13.8
14.8
14.2
14.8

16.2
..
13.8
..
10.4

39.5
47.7
2.2
..
21.5

48.3
33.8
35.4
..
33.7

6
7
8
9
10

Belgium
Iceland
United States
Japan
Ireland

5.0
5.4
5.2
..
5.2

5.8
6.0
5.6
3.6
4.3

..
..
12.3
..
10.2

11.6
..
15.5
10.5
13.5

23.3
59.5
..
..
37.8

33.3
..
39.2
37.8
30.9

11
12
13
14
15

Switzerland
United Kingdom
Finland
Austria
Luxembourg

5.1
4.9
5.6
5.4
3.0

5.6
4.6
6.3
5.9
4.1

18.7
..
11.9
7.6
10.4

..
..
12.2
11.0
8.5

49.9
29.7
27.9
23.7
..

16
17
18
19
20

France
Denmark
New Zealand
Germany
Spain

5.4
..
6.2
..
4.4

5.7
8.3
6.6
4.6
4.4

..
..
..
..
9.4

11.4
15.3
..
9.9
..

21
22
23
24
25

Italy
Israel
Hong Kong, China (SAR)
Greece
Singapore

3.1
6.3
..
2.5
..

5.0
7.3
4.1
3.8
..

..
11.3
..
..
..

26
27
28
29
30

Portugal
Slovenia
Korea, Rep. of
Barbados
Cyprus

4.2
..
3.5
7.8
3.5

5.8
..
3.6
6.5
5.6

31
32
33
34
35

Malta
Czech Republic
Brunei Darussalam
Argentina
Seychelles

4.3
..
..
1.1
7.8

4.9
4.4
..
4.6
7.5

36
37
38
39
40

Estonia
Poland
Hungary
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Bahrain

..
..
5.8
2.7
4.2

41
42
43
44
45

Lithuania
Slovakia
Chile
Kuwait
Costa Rica

46
47
48
49
50

Uruguay
Qatar
Croatia
United Arab Emirates
Latvia

172

e
e

e

e
e

e

e

e
e

e

e

e

e

e

e

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

10 Commitment
to education:
public
spending
Public expenditure on education by level b
Public expenditure on
(% of all levels)
As % of total
Pre-primary
As % of GDP
government expenditure
and primary
Secondary
Tertiary
1990 c
1999-2001 d
1990 c
1999-2001 d
1990 c
1999-2001 d
1990 c
1999-2001 d
1990 c
1999-2001 d
education a

HDI rank
51
52
53
54
55

Bahamas
Cuba
Mexico
Trinidad and Tobago
Antigua and Barbuda

4.0
..
3.6
3.6
..

..
8.5
5.1
4.0
3.2

17.8
12.3
12.8
11.6
..

..
16.8
22.6
16.7
..

..
..
..
18.3
..

..
10.6
..
20.0
..

e

..
25.7
32.3
42.5
..

..
39.4
48.6
59.6
36.9

..
39.0
29.6
36.8
..

..
36.4
34.4
32.3
37.3

70.7
..
..
34.3
..

..
..
17.8
28.1
..

..
..
..
34.4
..

..
..
14.2
34.5
..

37.0
57.7
..
37.7
..

40.8
..
49.2
32.0
..

23.3
16.2
..
36.4
..

33.9
..
28.9
38.3
..

..
60.5
23.5
52.1
54.9

..
..
..
..
..

..
14.5
4.5
22.1
15.0

48.2
..
39.3
54.1
52.6

..
38.7
47.0
36.4
43.0

56.2
78.8
..
37.4
..

42.3
..
..
36.8
..

..
..
..
..
..

35.0
..
60.6
..
..

..
..
58.1
..
..

..
48.9
37.8
53.9
51.7

..
39.8
64.1
..
..

..
33.3
..
..
64.4

..
..
..
61.0
34.4

..
..
46.3
44.9
45.3

e
e

..
14.4
16.5
11.9
..

..
17.1
14.5
3.7
15.1

13.9
..
..
19.9
..

..
..
52.7
32.1
..

21.3
14.4
..
16.6
..

25.3
..
..
15.6
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
8.8
40.7
9.6
15.1

..
..
..
..
..

23.3
..
30.9
37.0
25.2

..
37.6
33.1
51.4
23.8

12.8
..
20.7
7.4
0.0

..
21.6
19.9
1.8
33.2

21.6
..
..
33.2
..

20.5
..
..
33.8
..

14.6
21.2
..
21.1
..

21.7
..
..
19.2
..

..
..
..
..
..

48.9
..
21.9
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

16.0
29.8
13.7
..
..

..
..
29.4
22.6
62.4

..
25.5
30.1
29.0
48.3

..
..
..
25.8
35.1

..
5.2
32.2
17.1
..

..
36.4
31.7
..
..

..
45.0
..
..
30.1

..
18.5
0.0
..
..

8.3
21.7
..
..
..

84.3
..
..
20.2
34.2

..
..
18.9
35.1
44.5

13.4
..
..
8.1
18.3

..
..
10.9
16.2
9.1

e
e

e
e

Medium human development
56
57
58
59
60

Bulgaria
Russian Federation
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
Malaysia
Macedonia, TFYR

5.2
3.5
..
5.2
..

..
3.1
2.7
7.9
4.1

61
62
63
64
65

Panama
Belarus
Tonga
Mauritius
Albania

4.7
4.9
..
3.5
5.8

4.3
6.0
5.0
3.3
..

20.9
..
..
11.8
..

7.5
..
14.0
13.3
..

66
67
68
69
70

Bosnia and Herzegovina
Suriname
Venezuela
Romania
Ukraine

..
8.1
3.0
2.8
5.2

..
..
..
3.5
4.2

..
..
12.0
7.3
19.7

..
..
..
..
15.0

71
72
73
74
75

Saint Lucia
Brazil
Colombia
Oman
Samoa (Western)

..
..
2.5
3.1
3.4

7.3
4.0
4.4
4.2
4.5

..
..
16.0
11.1
10.7

20.7
10.4
18.0
..
14.6

76
77
78
79
80

Thailand
Saudi Arabia
Kazakhstan
Jamaica
Lebanon

3.5
6.5
3.2
4.7
..

5.0
..
..
6.3
2.9

20.0
17.8
17.6
12.8
..

31.0
..
..
12.3
11.1

81
82
83
84
85

Fiji
Armenia
Philippines
Maldives
Peru

4.6
7.0
2.9
4.0
2.2

5.5
3.2
3.2
..
3.3

..
20.5
10.1
10.0
..

19.4
..
..
..
21.1

86
87
88
89
90

Turkmenistan
St. Vincent & the Grenadines
Turkey
Paraguay
Jordan

4.3
6.4
2.2
1.1
8.4

..
9.3
3.7
4.7
4.6

21.0
13.8
..
9.1
17.1

..
13.4
..
11.2
20.6

91
92
93
94
95

Azerbaijan
Tunisia
Grenada
China
Dominica

..
6.0
5.1
2.3
..

3.5
6.8
..
..
5.0

23.5
13.5
13.2
12.8
..

23.1
17.4
..
..
..

Sri Lanka
Georgia
Dominican Republic
Belize
Ecuador

2.6
..
..
4.7
2.8

1.3
2.5
2.4
6.2
1.0

8.1
..
..
18.5
17.2

..
13.1
13.2
20.9
8.0

96
97
98
99
100

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

e

e

e

e
e

e

e

e

e

e

e

e

e

e

e

e

e

e

e

e

e

f

e, f

e, f

e, f
e

e, f

e

e

e

e

e

e

e

e

e

e

e

e

e

e

e

e

e

e

173

10 Commitment
to education:
public
spending
Public expenditure on education by level b
Public expenditure on
(% of all levels)
As % of total
Pre-primary
As % of GDP
government expenditure
and primary
Secondary
Tertiary
1990 c
1999-2001 d
1990 c
1999-2001 d
1990 c
1999-2001 d
1990 c
1999-2001 d
1990 c
1999-2001 d
education a

HDI rank
101
102
103
104
105

Iran, Islamic Rep. of
Occupied Palestinian Territories
El Salvador
Guyana
Cape Verde

4.1
..
1.9
3.4
..

5.0
..
2.5
4.1
..

22.4
..
16.6
4.4
..

21.7
..
19.4
8.6
..

106
107
108
109
110

Syrian Arab Republic
Uzbekistan
Algeria
Equatorial Guinea
Kyrgyzstan

4.1
..
5.3
..
8.3

4.0
..
..
0.5
3.1

17.3
20.4
21.1
..
22.5

111
112
113
114
115

Indonesia
Viet Nam
Moldova, Rep. of
Bolivia
Honduras

1.0
..
..
2.3
..

1.3
..
4.0
6.0
..

116
117
118
119
120

Tajikistan
Mongolia
Nicaragua
South Africa
Egypt

9.7
12.1
3.4
6.2
3.7

2.4
6.5
..
5.7
..

121
122
123
124
125

Guatemala
Gabon
São Tomé and Principe
Solomon Islands
Morocco

1.4
..
..
..
5.3

1.7
3.9
..
3.5
5.1

126
127
128
129
130

Namibia
India
Botswana
Vanuatu
Cambodia

7.6
3.9
6.7
4.6
..

7.9
4.1
2.1
10.5
2.0

131
132
133
134
135

Ghana
Myanmar
Papua New Guinea
Bhutan
Lao People’s Dem. Rep.

3.2
..
..
..
..

4.1
1.3
2.3
5.2
3.2

136
137
138
139
140
141

Comoros
Swaziland
Bangladesh
Sudan
Nepal
Cameroon

..
5.7
1.5
0.9
2.0
3.2

..
5.5
2.3
..
3.4
5.4

e
e

e

e

e

e

e

33.2
..
..
..
..

26.8
..
61.2
..
..

11.1
..
..
1.6
18.6

38.5
..
..
..
8.5

..
..
..
39.1
..

..
7.5
..
..
..

9.8
..
15.0
18.4
..

..
..
..
..
..

24.7
17.6
9.7
..
..

..
..
13.8
..
..

11.8
..
..
..
26.1

11.4
..
..
15.4
..

..
12.2
17.0
..
..

21.0
12.7
25.6
26.7
15.3

24.3
..
..
..
..

..
18.1
17.5
12.9
10.6

..
19.5
10.3
2.8
8.5
19.6

..
..
15.8
..
13.9
22.1

7.4
26.4
14.4
12.2
11.5

7.8
23.2
12.6
18.4
..

..
17.0
..
..
..

..
22.3
32.8
..
..

e
e

e

e
e

39.2
..
..
..
..

36.3
..
20.8
..
..

28.2
..
..
..
57.9

39.2
..
..
30.7
..

37.8
..
..
38.1
..

..
..
..
..
..

6.9
13.9
..
75.6
..

..
..
47.5
47.2
..

31.1
..
..
..
34.8

..
35.6
..
..
48.0

..
38.9
..
59.8
..

59.0
38.4
53.2
27.9
75.5

29.2
..
..
..
..

..
46.6
71.4
..
46.9

42.4
31.2
45.6
..
48.2
70.5

..
37.7
45.1
..
59.2
..

..
30.4
..
..
..

..
48.6
32.7
49.3
..

54.1
50.3
..
49.1
..

..
..
..
48.0
..

e

e

f

e

f

e, f
e

f

f

13.6
..
..
..
..

18.5
..
6.7
..
..

21.3
..
..
..
10.0

..
..
..
30.1
..

38.8
..
..
19.0
..

..
..
..
..
..

23.4
..
..
26.6
..

57.0
48.8
..
..
..

..
..
..
31.3
..

9.1
14.5
..
21.5
..

..
..
..
14.5
..

12.9
..
..
..
48.9

..
38.9
..
..
51.5

21.2
..
..
..
16.2

..
25.5
..
..
0.3

..
27.0
..
26.6
..

27.2
40.1
23.8
57.4
11.2

..
14.9
..
3.4
..

12.0
20.3
18.6
10.5
5.0

34.3
..
..
..
..

..
27.0
24.3
..
19.0

11.0
..
..
..
..

..
26.4
4.3
..
12.6

28.2
24.5
42.2
..
15.7
..

..
31.1
43.8
..
23.1
..

17.3
26.0
8.7
..
23.3
29.5

..
22.4
11.1
..
12.1
..

..
25.8
..
..
..

..
29.3
27.3
27.7
..

..
29.0
..
..
..

..
17.4
32.6
16.7
..

28.6
18.8
..
35.6
..

..
..
..
33.0
..

12.3
21.6
..
..
..

..
..
..
11.9
..

e

e

e

e
e

e

e

e

Low human development
142
143
144
145
146

Pakistan
Togo
Congo
Lesotho
Uganda

2.6
5.5
5.0
6.1
1.5

1.8
4.8
3.2
10.0
2.5

e

147
148
149
150
151

Zimbabwe
Kenya
Yemen
Madagascar
Nigeria

..
6.7
..
2.1
0.9

10.4
6.2
10.0
2.5
..

e

174

e

e
e

e

e

e

f

e

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

10 Commitment
to education:
public
spending
Public expenditure on education by level b
Public expenditure on
(% of all levels)
As % of total
Pre-primary
As % of GDP
government expenditure
and primary
Secondary
Tertiary
1990 c
1999-2001 d
1990 c
1999-2001 d
1990 c
1999-2001 d
1990 c
1999-2001 d
1990 c
1999-2001 d
education a

HDI rank
152
153
154
155
156

Mauritania
Haiti
Djibouti
Gambia
Eritrea

..
1.4
..
3.8
..

3.6
..
..
2.7
2.7

e

e

157
158
159
160
161

Senegal
Timor-Leste
Rwanda
Guinea
Benin

3.9
..
..
..
..

3.2
..
2.8
1.9
3.3

162
163
164
165
166

Tanzania, U. Rep. of
Côte d’Ivoire
Zambia
Malawi
Angola

3.2
..
2.4
3.3
3.9

..
4.6
1.9
4.1
2.8

167
168
169
170
171

Chad
Congo, Dem. Rep. of the
Central African Republic
Ethiopia
Mozambique

..
..
2.2
3.4
3.9

2.0
..
..
4.8
2.4

172
173
174
175
176
177

Guinea-Bissau
Burundi
Mali
Burkina Faso
Niger
Sierra Leone

..
3.4
..
2.7
3.2
..

2.1
3.6
2.8
..
2.3
..

e

e
e
e

e
e
e

e

e
e

..
20.0
10.5
14.6
..

..
..
..
14.2
..

33.3
53.1
58.0
41.6
..

54.5
..
..
..
45.8

26.9
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
25.6
..

43.9
..
..
..
..

..
..
48.7
..
57.4

11.4
..
8.7
11.1
10.7

..
21.5
..
..
..

..
..
..
44.7
96.3

..
42.4
..
..
..

..
..
..
9.4
12.0

..
..
..
13.8
..

..
..
..
53.9
49.8

..
16.7
..
..
18.6
..

4.8
20.7
..
..
..
..

..
46.8
..
..
..
..

e

e

e

e, f

37.7
19.0
21.7
21.2
..

31.4
..
..
..
10.0

25.7
..
..
..
..

..
..
16.7
..
25.5

..
..
..
13.1
..

..
32.5
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
28.1
15.7

25.9
..
..
..
..

..
38.0
45.7
..
49.2
..

..
29.1
..
..
..
..

..
35.0
39.7
..
24.5
..

f

e

e

e

e

f

e

e

e

e

e

e

24.9
9.1
11.5
17.8
..

14.1
..
..
..
..

24.0
..
..
..
..

..
..
34.7
..
16.4

..
..
..
20.2
3.7

..
25.1
..
..
..

..
..
..
12.1
9.9

16.6
..
..
..
..

..
22.0
..
..
..
..

..
26.9
14.6
..
16.2
..

e

e

e

e

e

e

Note: As a result of limitations in the data and methodological changes, comparisons of education expenditure data across countries and over time must be made with caution. For detailed notes on the data see http://www.uis.unesco.org/.
a. Data refer to total public expenditure on education, including current and capital expenditure. See the definitions of statistical terms. b. Data refer to current public expenditure on education. Data may not be strictly
comparable between 1990 and 1999-2001 as a result of methodological changes. Expenditures by level may not sum to 100 as a result of rounding or the omission of the categories expenditures in postsecondary education and expenditures not allocated by level. c. Data may not be comparable between countries as a result of differences in method of data collection. d. Data refer to the most recent year available during the period
specified. e. Data refer to a UNESCO Institute for Statistics estimate where no national estimate is available. f. Data refer to primary school expenditure only.
Source: Columns 1, 3 and 5: UNESCO Institute for Statistics 2003c; columns 2, 4 and 7-10: UNESCO Institute for Statistics 2004b; column 6: calculated on the basis of data on public expenditure on education by preprimary and primary levels from UNESCO Institute for Statistics 2004b.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

175

. . . TO ACQUIRE KNOWLEDGE . . .

11 Literacy and
enrolment

Adult literacy rate a
(% ages 15 and above)
1990
2002

HDI rank

MDG
MDG
Net primary
Net secondary
Youth literacy rate a enrolment ratio b
enrolment ratio b, c
(% ages 15-24)
(%)
(%)
1990
2002
1990/91
2001/02 d 1990/91 2001/02 d

Tertiary
students
in science,
math and
MDG
engineering
Children
(% of
reaching grade 5
all tertiary
(% of grade 1 students)
students)
1990/91
2000/01 d
1994-97 e

High human development
1
2
3
4
5

Norway
Sweden
Australia
Canada
Netherlands

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

100
100
99
98
95

101
102
96
100
100

f
g
g
f
f

6
7
8
9
10

Belgium
Iceland
United States
Japan
Ireland

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

96
101
97
100
90

101
101
93
101
94

f

11
12
13
14
15

Switzerland
United Kingdom
Finland
Austria
Luxembourg

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

84
100
98
88
81

99
101
100
91
96

f

f
g
g
f

f
f
f
f

16
17
18
19
20

France
Denmark
New Zealand
Germany
Spain

..
..
..
..
96.3

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
99.6

..
..
..
..
..

101
98
101
84
103

100
99
98
83
104

f

21
22
23
24
25

Italy
Israel
Hong Kong, China (SAR)
Greece
Singapore

97.7
91.4
89.7
94.9
88.8

..
95.3
..
..
92.5

99.8
98.7
98.2
99.5
99.0

..
99.5
..
..
99.5

103
92
..
95
96

100
100
98
95
..

f

26
27
28
29
30

Portugal
Slovenia
Korea, Rep. of
Barbados
Cyprus

87.2
99.6
95.9
99.4
94.3

..
99.7
..
99.7
96.8

99.5
99.8
99.8
99.8
99.7

..
99.8
..
99.8
99.8

102
104
104
80
87

..
93
101
103
95

31
32
33
34
35

Malta
Czech Republic
Brunei Darussalam
Argentina
Seychelles

88.4
..
85.5
95.7
..

92.6
..
93.9
97.0
91.9

97.5
..
97.9
98.2
..

98.7
..
99.1
98.6
99.1

97
87
90
94
..

98
88
..
108
106

f

36
37
38
39
40

Estonia
Poland
Hungary
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Bahrain

99.8
99.6
99.1
..
82.1

99.8
..
..
..
88.5

j

99.8
99.8
99.7
..
95.6

99.8
..
..
..
98.6

j

100
97
91
..
99

98
98
91
102
91

f

41
42
43
44
45

Lithuania
Slovakia
Chile
Kuwait
Costa Rica

99.3
..
94.0
76.7
93.9

99.6
99.7
95.7
82.9
95.8

j

99.8
..
98.1
87.5
97.4

99.7
99.6
99.0
93.1
98.4

j

..
..
88
49
87

97
87
89
85
91

f

46
47
48
49
50

Uruguay
Qatar
Croatia
United Arab Emirates
Latvia

96.5
77.0
96.9
71.0
99.8

97.7
84.2
98.1
77.3
99.7

98.7
90.3
99.6
84.7
99.8

99.1
94.8
99.6
91.4
99.7

92
89
74
100
92

90
94
88
81
91

g

176

j

j

j

j

j
j

j, k
j

j

j

j

j

j

j
j

j, k
j

j

h
g
g
g

f

f
g

f

g

g

g
g
f

g
f

f

f

88
85
79
89
84

95
99
88
98
90

87
..
85
97
80

..
82
85
101
82

80
81
93
..
..

88
95
95
88
80

f

..
87
85
..
..

92
89
92
88
94

f

..
..
..
83
..

88
89
72
85
..

h

..
..
86
..
69

85
96
89
87
88

f

78
..
..
..
..

80
89
..
81
98

f

..
76
75
..
85

92
91
92
106
81

f

..
..
55
..
37

92
87
75
77
51

f

..
70
57
58
..

72
78
86
72
89

g

g
g
f
f

f
g
g
f

f
f
f
f

h
f
g
g

f

f
g

f

g

g

g
g
f

g
f

f

100
100
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
100

..
..
..
100
100

..
99
..
..
98

80
..
100
..
..

99
..
100
..
99

96
94
92
..
..

98
100
..
..
..

..
..
100
100
..

96
99
..
..
..

28
..
..
..
..

..
..
99
..
100

..
..
100
95
99

31
29
34
21
17

99
..
..
..
..

99
97
93
93
91

h

13
34
6
30
..

..
98
98
..
89

99
99
..
90
99

h

32
..
32
..
..

..
..
..
..
82

..
..
100
..
94

94
64
..
80
..

89
..
..
97
..

h

h

h

18
31
32
..
20
..
20
..
23
30
31
29
37
28
..

i
h

h

h

h

25
21
21
31
31

38
43
43
23
18
24
..
38
27
29

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

11 Literacy and
enrolment

Adult literacy rate a
(% ages 15 and above)
1990
2002

HDI rank
51
52
53
54
55

Bahamas
Cuba
Mexico
Trinidad and Tobago
Antigua and Barbuda

94.4
95.1
87.3
96.8
..

..
96.9
90.5
98.5
..

j

MDG
MDG
Net primary
Net secondary
Youth literacy rate a enrolment ratio b
enrolment ratio b, c
(% ages 15-24)
(%)
(%)
1990
2002
1990/91
2001/02 d 1990/91 2001/02 d
96.5
99.3
95.2
99.6
..

..
99.8
96.6
99.8
..

99.4
99.8
91.0
94.8
..

99.7
99.8
97.0
97.2
..

95.3
99.8
..
91.1
94.8

97.0
99.8
99.2
94.5
99.4

..
..
96.0
99.3
99.8

99.6
..
98.2
97.8
99.9

..
91.8
94.9
85.6
99.0

..
94.2
97.2
98.5
99.5

98.1
85.4
99.8
91.2
92.1

98.0
93.5
99.8
94.5
..

j

97.8
99.5
97.3
98.1
94.5

99.3
99.8
95.1
99.2
96.6

j, k

..
..
92.7
95.6
96.7

99.8
..
95.5
96.3
99.4

j, k

..
84.1
..
95.3
..

..
94.3
..
98.9
..

95.1
..
87.5
96.0
95.5

97.0
..
91.7
84.2
96.4

j

90
92
100
91
..

86
96
101
94
..

86
99
96
94
94

93
..
..
95
93

92
86
92
95
95

99
94
105
93
97

..
78
88
81
80

..
97
92
93
82

95
86
68
69
112

103
97
87
75
95

76
59
88
96
78

86
59
90
95
90

105
..
96
87
88

100
85
93
96
100

..
..
89
93
94

..
92
88
92
91

101
94
..
97
..

80
97
84
93
91

90
97
58
94
98

105
91
97
96
102

g

..
69
45
..
..

79
83
60
68
..

63
..
..
..
..

86
..
..
69
82

50
..
83
..
..

62
78
72
62
74

..
..
19
..
..

..
63
57
80
91

..
15
..
..
..

70
72
54
68
61

..
31
..
64
..

..
53
84
75
..

..
..
..
..
..

76
85
56
31
66

..
..
42
26
..

..
52
..
50
80

..
..
..
..
..

76
68
46
..
84

..
..
..
31
..

..
71
41
60
50

g

Tertiary
students
in science,
math and
MDG
engineering
Children
(% of
reaching grade 5
all tertiary
(% of grade 1 students)
students)
1990/91
2000/01 d
1994-97 e
..
92
80
..
..

..
95
90
98
..

91
..
..
98
..

..
..
..
..
..

25
49
..
..
38

..
..
90
98
..

89
..
83
99
..

27
33
..
17
22

..
..
86
..
98

..
..
96
..
..

..
..
..
32
..

..
..
62
97
..

97
..
61
96
94

..
23
31
31
..

..
83
..
..
..

94
94
..
90
94

..
..
..
..
..

88
..
79
..
86

..
..
98
70
..

..
85
..
77
98

..
87
..
86
..

..
95
..
99
85

94
..
..
67
..

..
..
66
81
78

h

h

..
21
31
41
..

Medium human development
56
57
58
59
60

Bulgaria
Russian Federation
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
Malaysia
Macedonia, TFYR

97.2
99.2
68.1
80.7
..

98.6
99.6
81.7
88.7
..

61
62
63
64
65

Panama
Belarus
Tonga
Mauritius
Albania

89.0
99.5
..
79.8
77.0

92.3
99.7
98.8
84.3
98.7

66
67
68
69
70

Bosnia and Herzegovina
Suriname
Venezuela
Romania
Ukraine

..
..
88.9
97.1
99.4

94.6
..
93.1
97.3
99.6

71
72
73
74
75

Saint Lucia
Brazil
Colombia
Oman
Samoa (Western)

..
82.0
88.4
54.7
98.0

..
86.4
92.1
74.4
98.7

76
77
78
79
80

Thailand
Saudi Arabia
Kazakhstan
Jamaica
Lebanon

92.4
66.2
98.8
82.2
80.3

92.6
77.9
99.4
87.6
..

j

81
82
83
84
85

Fiji
Armenia
Philippines
Maldives
Peru

88.6
97.5
91.7
94.8
85.5

92.9
99.4
92.6
97.2
85.0

j, k

86
87
88
89
90

Turkmenistan
St. Vincent & the Grenadines
Turkey
Paraguay
Jordan

..
..
77.9
90.3
81.5

98.8
..
86.5
91.6
90.9

j, k

91
92
93
94
95

Azerbaijan
Tunisia
Grenada
China
Dominica

..
59.1
..
78.3
..

..
73.2
..
90.9
..

Sri Lanka
Georgia
Dominican Republic
Belize
Ecuador

88.7
..
79.4
89.1
87.6

92.1
..
84.4
76.9
91.0

96
97
98
99
100

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

j

j
j
j

j

j

j
j

l

j
l

j

j
j

j

j
j
j

j

j

j
j

l

j
l

j

j
j

f

g
f

f

g

f

g

g

g

g

g

g
g
g

g
f
f
f
g

g
f

f

g
f

f

f

g

f

g

g

g

g
h
f

g
g

g
f

f

i
g
f

i

21
18
42
20
17
..
33
..
..
..

h

i

i

h

..
..
22
22
27
..
27
..
53
..
29
48
25
..
..

177

11 Literacy and
enrolment

Adult literacy rate a
(% ages 15 and above)
1990
2002

HDI rank

MDG
MDG
Net primary
Net secondary
Youth literacy rate a enrolment ratio b
enrolment ratio b, c
(% ages 15-24)
(%)
(%)
1990
2002
1990/91
2001/02 d 1990/91 2001/02 d

101
102
103
104
105

Iran, Islamic Rep. of
Occupied Palestinian Territories
El Salvador
Guyana
Cape Verde

63.2
..
72.4
97.2
63.8

..
..
79.7
..
75.7

86.3
..
83.8
99.8
81.5

..
..
88.9
..
89.1

92
..
73
89
94

87
95
89
98
101

106
107
108
109
110

Syrian Arab Republic
Uzbekistan
Algeria
Equatorial Guinea
Kyrgyzstan

64.8
98.7
52.9
73.3
..

82.9
99.3
68.9
..
..

79.9
99.6
77.3
92.7
..

95.2
99.7
89.9
..
..

92
78
93
91
92

98
..
95
85
90

111
112
113
114
115

Indonesia
Viet Nam
Moldova, Rep. of
Bolivia
Honduras

79.5
90.4
97.5
78.1
68.1

87.9
90.3
99.0
86.7
80.0

95.0
94.1
99.8
92.6
79.7

98.0
..
99.8
97.3
88.9

97
90
89
91
90

92
94
78
94
87

116
117
118
119
120

Tajikistan
Mongolia
Nicaragua
South Africa
Egypt

98.2
97.8
62.7
81.2
47.1

99.5
97.8
76.7
86.0
55.6

99.8
98.9
68.2
88.5
61.3

99.8
97.7
86.2
91.8
73.2

77
90
72
88
84

105
87
82
90
90

121
122
123
124
125

Guatemala
Gabon
São Tomé and Principe
Solomon Islands
Morocco

61.0
..
..
..
38.7

69.9
..
..
..
50.7

126
127
128
129
130

Namibia
India
Botswana
Vanuatu
Cambodia

74.9
49.3
68.1
..
62.0

83.3
61.3
78.9
..
69.4

131
132
133
134
135

Ghana
Myanmar
Papua New Guinea
Bhutan
Lao People’s Dem. Rep.

58.5
80.7
56.6
..
56.5

136
137
138
139
140
141

Comoros
Swaziland
Bangladesh
Sudan
Nepal
Cameroon

j, k

j
j
j
j
l

j, k

j
j
j
j
l

j, k

73.4
..
..
..
55.3

80.1
..
..
..
69.5

64
86
..
83
57

85
78
98
..
88

87.4
64.3
83.3
..
73.5

92.3
..
89.1
..
80.3

83
..
85
71
67

78
83
81
93
86

73.8
85.3
..
..
66.4

81.8
88.2
68.6
..
70.1

92.2
91.4
..
..
79.3

52
99
66
..
63

60
82
77
..
83

53.8
71.6
34.2
45.8
30.4
57.9

56.2
80.9
41.1
59.9
44.0
67.9

56.7
85.1
42.0
65.0
46.6
81.1

59.0
91.2
49.7
79.1
62.7
..

57
77
71
43
85
74

55
77
87
46
70
..

35.4
44.2
67.1
78.0
56.1

41.5
59.6
82.8
81.4
68.9

47.4
63.5
92.5
87.2
70.1

53.9
77.4
97.8
..
80.2

35
75
79
73
53

..
95
..
84
..

j

l

h
g

g

g

g

g

g
f

f

h

h
f

..
..
..
67
..

..
81
46
75
53

43
..
54
..
..

39
..
62
26
..

39
..
..
29
..

47
65
68
67
..

..
..
..
..
..

79
71
37
62
81

h
g

g
h

h

f

g
f

g

Tertiary
students
in science,
math and
MDG
engineering
Children
(% of
reaching grade 5
all tertiary
(% of grade 1 students)
students)
1990/91
2000/01 d
1994-97 e
90
..
..
93
..

94
..
67
95
93

96
..
95
..
..

92
..
96
33
..

31
..
50
..
..

84
..
..
..
..

89
89
..
78
..

28
..
44
..
26

..
..
46
75
..

..
..
54
65
99

23
25
31
18
15

..
..
..
85
75

56
100
61
..
84

..
..
97
..
..

94
59
89
95
70

i

h
h

36
10
20
25
..

..
..
..
..
..

28
..
..
..
31

..
..
29
..
..

38
..
55
28
21

..
..
..
..
..

32
35
23
..
31

80
..
59
..
..

..
60
60
91
62

..
37
..
..
..

..
..
19
..
..
..

..
32
44
..
..
..

..
76
..
94
..
..

..
74
65
84
78
81

..
22
..
..
14
..

..
18
..
..
..

..
27
..
22
14

..
51
63
71
..

..
84
..
67
..

..
11
..
13
15

..
..
..
..
..

40
24
35
11
..

..
..
..
22
..

..
..
86
34
..

23
..
6
20
41

f

f

..
..
..
..
29
h

i

i

4
25
27
..
23

Low human development
142
143
144
145
146
147
148
149
150
151

178

Pakistan
Togo
Congo
Lesotho
Uganda
Zimbabwe
Kenya
Yemen
Madagascar
Nigeria

80.7
70.8
32.7
58.0
48.7

90.0
84.3
49.0
..
66.8

j, k

l

93.9
89.8
50.0
72.2
73.6

97.6
95.8
67.9
..
88.6

j, k

l

86
74
52
65
60

83
70
67
69
..

g

f

h

f
g

h
i

h

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

11 Literacy and
enrolment

Adult literacy rate a
(% ages 15 and above)
1990
2002

HDI rank

MDG
MDG
Net primary
Net secondary
Youth literacy rate a enrolment ratio b
enrolment ratio b, c
(% ages 15-24)
(%)
(%)
1990
2002
1990/91
2001/02 d 1990/91 2001/02 d

152
153
154
155
156

Mauritania
Haiti
Djibouti
Gambia
Eritrea

34.8
39.7
53.0
25.6
46.4

41.2
51.9
..
..
..

45.8
54.8
73.2
42.2
60.9

49.6
66.2
..
..
..

35
22
31
48
16

67
..
34
73
43

157
158
159
160
161

Senegal
Timor-Leste
Rwanda
Guinea
Benin

28.4
..
53.3
..
26.4

39.3
..
69.2
..
39.8

40.1
..
72.7
..
40.4

52.9
..
84.9
..
55.5

47
..
67
25
45

58
..
84
61
71

162
163
164
165
166

Tanzania, U. Rep. of
Côte d’Ivoire
Zambia
Malawi
Angola

62.9
38.5
68.2
51.8
..

77.1
..
79.9
61.8
..

83.1
52.6
81.2
63.2
..

91.6
59.9
89.2
72.5
..

50
46
79
50
58

54
63
66
81
30

167
168
169
170
171

Chad
Congo, Dem. Rep. of the
Central African Republic
Ethiopia
Mozambique

27.7
47.5
33.2
28.6
33.5

45.8
..
48.6
41.5
46.5

48.0
68.9
52.1
43.0
48.8

69.9
..
58.5
57.4
62.8

36
54
53
23
45

58
35
..
46
60

172
173
174
175
176
177

Guinea-Bissau
Burundi
Mali
Burkina Faso
Niger
Sierra Leone

27.2
37.0
18.8
16.3
11.4
..

..
50.4
19.0
12.8
17.1
..

44.1
51.6
27.6
24.9
17.0
..

..
66.1
24.2
19.4
24.5
..

38
53
20
26
24
41

45
53
38
35
34
..

Developing countries
Least developed countries
Arab States
East Asia and the Pacific
Latin America and the Caribbean
South Asia
Sub-Saharan Africa
Central & Eastern Europe & CIS
OECD
High-income OECD

67.3
43.0
50.8
79.8
85.0
47.0
50.8
98.7
..
..

76.7
52.5
63.3
90.3
88.6
57.6
63.2
99.3
..
..

85.5
54.9
68.4
95.1
92.7
..
66.8
99.7
..
..

88.1
64.3
81.2
98.0
94.8
..
76.8
99.6
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

High human development
Medium human development
Low human development

..
71.8
42.5

..
80.4
54.3

..
90.5
59.0

..
93.0
69.3

High income
Middle income
Low income

..
81.6
53.3

..
89.7
63.6

..
93.7
..

..

..

..

World

l

j, k
j, k

..
..
..
..
..

15
..
17
28
21

..
..
7
..
..

..
20
..
12
20

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
20
29
..

..
..
..
..
..

8
12
..
15
11

..
..
5
..
6
..

..
8
..
8
5
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
96.3
..

..
..
..

..

..

k

l

j, k
j, k

Tertiary
students
in science,
math and
MDG
engineering
Children
(% of
reaching grade 5
all tertiary
(% of grade 1 students)
students)
1990/91
2000/01 d
1994-97 e
75
..
87
..
..

55
..
86
70
..

85
..
60
59
55

68
..
40
84
84

79
73
..
64
..

78
69
77
54
..

53
55
24
..
33

45
..
..
61
52

..
62
73
70
62
..

38
64
84
64
71
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..

..

..

..

..

..

g

g

h

g
h

i

h

i
g

g

f

i
f

g

f
i

f

i

h
h

i

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
42
18
39
..
..
..
..
14
..
..
36
46

i

..
..
..
19
..
..

a. Data refer to estimates produced by UNESCO Institute for Statistics in July 2002, unless otherwise specified. Due to differences in methodology and timeliness of underlying data, comparisons across countries and over
time should be made with caution. b. The net enrolment ratio is the ratio of enrolled children of the official age for the education level indicated to the total population of that age. Net enrolment ratios exceeding 100%
reflect discrepancies between these two data sets. c. Enrolment ratios are based on the new International Standard Classification of Education, adopted in 1997 (UNESCO 1997), and so may not be strictly comparable
with those for earlier years. d. Data on net enrolment ratios refer to the 2001/02 school year, and data on children reaching grade 5 to the 2000/01 school year, unless otherwise specified. Data for some countries may
refer to national or UNESCO Institute for Statistics estimates. For details, see http://www.uis.unesco.org/. Because data are from different sources, comparisons across countries should be made with caution. e. Data refer
to the most recent year available during the period specified. f. Data refer to the 2000/01 school year. g. Preliminary UNESCO Institute for Statistics estimate, subject to further revision. h. Data refer to the 1999/2000
school year. i. Data refer to the 1998/99 school year. j. Census data. k. Data refer to a year between 1995 and 1999. l. Survey data.
Source: Columns 1 and 3: UNESCO Institute for Statistics 2003a; columns 2 and 4: UNESCO Institute for Statistics 2004a; columns 5-10: UNESCO Institute for Statistics 2004c ; column 11: calculated on the basis of
data on tertiary students from UNESCO 1999.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

179

. . . TO ACQUIRE KNOWLEDGE . . .

12 Technology:
diffusion and
creation

MDG
Telephone mainlines a
(per 1,000 people)
1990
2002

HDI rank

MDG
Cellular subscribers a
(per 1,000 people)
1990
2002

Receipts of
royalties Research
Patents
and
and
granted
licence development Researchers
to residents
fees
(R&D)
in R&D
(per million (US$ per expenditures (per million
people)
person)
(% of GDP)
people)
2000
2002
1996-2002 b 1990-2001 b

MDG
Internet users
(per 1,000 people)
1990
2002

High human development
1
2
3
4
5

Norway
Sweden
Australia
Canada
Netherlands

502
681
456
565
464

734
736
539
635
618

46
54
11
22
5

844
889
640
377
745

7.1
5.8
5.9
3.7
3.3

502.6
573.1
481.7
512.8
506.3

88
235
68
36
177

37.9
169.7
15.5
54.0
122.1

6
7
8
9
10

Belgium
Iceland
United States
Japan
Ireland

393
510
547
441
281

494
653
646
558
502

4
39
21
7
7

786
906
488
637
763

(.)
0.0
8.0
0.2
0.0

328.3
647.9
551.4
448.9
270.9

73
7
298
884
9

86.4
0.1
151.7
81.8
63.6

11
12
13
14
15

Switzerland
United Kingdom
Finland
Austria
Luxembourg

574
441
534
418
481

744
591
523
489
797

18
19
52
10
2

789
841
867
786
1,061

5.8
0.9
4.0
1.3
0.0

351.0
423.1
508.9
409.4
370.0

188
71
5
138
145

16
17
18
19
20

France
Denmark
New Zealand
Germany
Spain

495
567
434
441
316

569
689
448
651
506

5
29
16
4
1

647
833
622
727
824

0.5
1.0
0.0
1.4
0.1

313.8
512.8
484.4
411.9
156.3

21
22
23
24
25

Italy
Israel
Hong Kong, China (SAR)
Greece
Singapore

388
343
450
389
346

481
453
565
491
463

5
3
24
0
17

939
955
942
845
796

0.2
1.1
0.0
0.0
0.0

26
27
28
29
30

Portugal
Slovenia
Korea, Rep. of
Barbados
Cyprus

243
211
306
281
419

421
506
489
494
688

1
0
2
0
5

825
835
679
361
584

31
32
33
34
35

Malta
Czech Republic
Brunei Darussalam
Argentina
Seychelles

360
158
136
93
124

523
362
256
219
269

0
0
7
(.)
0

699
849
401
178
553

36
37
38
39
40

Estonia
Poland
Hungary
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Bahrain

204
86
96
237
191

351
295
361
500
261

0
0
(.)
0
10

41
42
43
44
45

Lithuania
Slovakia
Chile
Kuwait
Costa Rica

212
135
66
188
101

270
268
230
204
251

0
0
1
12
0

46
47
48
49
50

180

Uruguay
Qatar
Croatia
United Arab Emirates
Latvia

134
220
172
224
234

280
286
417
291
301

c

0
9
(.)
19
0

1.6
4.6
1.5
1.9
1.9

4,377
5,186
3,439
2,978
2,572

2.0
3.0
2.8
3.1
1.2

2,953
6,639
4,099
5,321
2,190

..
130.4
107.5
13.6
274.8

2.6
1.9
3.4
1.9
..

3,592
2,666
7,110
2,313
..

174
59
145
205
42

54.2
..
23.0
45.7
9.0

2.2
2.1
1.0
2.5
1.0

2,718
3,476
2,197
3,153
1,948

352.4
301.4
430.1
154.7
504.4

82
75
6
(.)
27

9.4
61.7
28.4
1.1
..

1.1
5.0
0.4
0.7
2.1

1,128
1,563
93
1,400
4,052

0.0
0.0
0.2
0.0
0.0

193.5
375.8
551.9
111.5
293.7

5
93
490
0
0

3.1
3.8
17.4
1.9
3.2

0.8
1.6
3.0
..
0.3

1,754
2,258
2,880
..
400

0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

303.0
256.3
102.3
112.0
145.2

54
26
..
4
..

3.2
4.4
..
0.5
..

..
1.3
..
0.4
..

96
1,466
..
684
..

650
363
676
106
579

0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

327.7
230.0
157.6
212.8
245.6

1
24
18
..
..

3.7
0.9
35.3
..
..

0.7
0.7
0.9
..
..

1,947
1,473
1,440
..
..

475
544
428
519
111

0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

144.4
160.4
237.5
105.8
193.1

24
15
2
..
0

0.1
..
0.4
0.0
0.4

0.6
0.6
0.5
0.2
0.2

2,303
1,774
419
212
530

2
..
26
0
40

0.0
..
19.1
..
1.5

0.2
..
1.0
..
0.4

276
591
1,187
..
1,078

193
433
535
647
394

c

0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

119.0
113.4
180.4
313.2
133.1

c

c

c

c

d

d

d

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

12 Technology:
diffusion and
creation

MDG
Telephone mainlines a
(per 1,000 people)
1990
2002

HDI rank
51
52
53
54
55

Bahamas
Cuba
Mexico
Trinidad and Tobago
Antigua and Barbuda

274
31
65
141
253

406
51
147
250
488

c

MDG
Cellular subscribers a
(per 1,000 people)
1990
2002

Receipts of
royalties Research
Patents
and
and
granted
licence development Researchers
to residents
fees
(R&D)
in R&D
(per million (US$ per expenditures (per million
people)
person)
(% of GDP)
people)
2000
2002
1996-2002 b 1990-2001 b

MDG
Internet users
(per 1,000 people)
1990
2002

8
0
1
0
0

390
2
255
278
490

0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

192.3
10.7
98.5
106.0
128.2

0
0
0
5
0

333
120
13
377
177

0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

80.8
40.9
22.5
319.7
48.4

c

..
0
1
0
0

..
..
0.5
..
0.0

..
0.6
0.4
0.1
..

..
489
225
456
..

18
99
..
..
17

0.5
1.0
..
0.5
1.6

0.5
1.2
..
0.4
..

1,167
3,494
361
160
387

0
35
..
..
0

0.0
0.1
..
0.0
..

0.4
..
..
0.3
..

95
1,893
..
360
..

0
..
1
38
99

..
..
0.0
0.1
0.1

..
..
0.4
0.4
0.9

..
..
193
879
2,118

0
0
(.)
..
..

..
0.6
0.1
..
..

..
1.1
0.2
..
..

..
323
101
4
..

c

Medium human development
56
57
58
59
60

Bulgaria
Russian Federation
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
Malaysia
Macedonia, TFYR

242
140
48
89
148

368
242
118
190
271

61
62
63
64
65

Panama
Belarus
Tonga
Mauritius
Albania

93
154
46
52
13

122
299
113
270
71

0
0
0
2
0

189
47
34
288
276

0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

41.4
81.6
29.2
99.1
3.9

66
67
68
69
70

Bosnia and Herzegovina
Suriname
Venezuela
Romania
Ukraine

..
92
76
102
136

237
164
113
194
216

0
0
(.)
0
0

196
225
256
236
84

0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

26.2
41.6
50.6
101.5
18.0

71
72
73
74
75

Saint Lucia
Brazil
Colombia
Oman
Samoa (Western)

129
65
69
60
26

320
223
179
92
57

0
(.)
0
2
0

89
201
106
183
15

0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

82.4
82.2
46.2
70.9
22.2

76
77
78
79
80

Thailand
Saudi Arabia
Kazakhstan
Jamaica
Lebanon

24
77
80
45
155

105
151
130
169
199

1
1
0
0
0

260
228
64
533
227

0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

77.6
64.6
15.7
228.4
117.1

3
(.)
72
0
0

0.1
0.0
0.0
2.3
..

0.1
..
0.3
..
..

74
..
716
8
..

81
82
83
84
85

Fiji
Armenia
Philippines
Maldives
Peru

58
157
10
29
26

119
143
42
102
66

0
0
0
0
(.)

110
19
191
149
86

0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

61.0
15.8
44.0
53.4
93.5

..
31
(.)
..
(.)

..
..
(.)
12.4
0.1

..
..
..
..
0.1

50
1,313
156
..
229

86
87
88
89
90

Turkmenistan
St. Vincent & the Grenadines
Turkey
Paraguay
Jordan

60
124
121
27
72

77
234
281
47
127

0
0
1
0
(.)

2
85
347
288
229

0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

1.7
59.8
72.8
17.3
57.7

0
0
(.)
..
..

..
0.0
0.0
32.1
..

..
..
0.6
0.0
6.3

..
..
306
166
1,948

91
92
93
94
95

Azerbaijan
Tunisia
Grenada
China
Dominica

86
37
177
6
164

113
117
316
167
304

0
(.)
2
(.)
0

107
52
71
161
120

0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

36.9
51.7
141.5
46.0
160.3

0
..
0
5
0

..
1.7
0.0
0.1
0.0

0.4
0.5
..
1.1
..

2,799
336
..
584
..

7
99
48
92
48

47
131
110
114
110

(.)
0
(.)
0
0

49
102
207
188
121

0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

10.6
14.9
36.4
108.9
41.6

0
49
..
0
0

..
1.1
..
0.0
..

0.2
0.3
..
..
0.1

191
2,421
..
..
83

96
97
98
99
100

Sri Lanka
Georgia
Dominican Republic
Belize
Ecuador

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

c

c

c

c

c

c

c

d

d

181

12 Technology:
diffusion and
creation

MDG
Telephone mainlines a
(per 1,000 people)
1990
2002

HDI rank

MDG
Cellular subscribers a
(per 1,000 people)
1990
2002

Receipts of
royalties Research
Patents
and
and
granted
licence development Researchers
to residents
fees
(R&D)
in R&D
(per million (US$ per expenditures (per million
people)
person)
(% of GDP)
people)
2000
2002
1996-2002 b 1990-2001 b

MDG
Internet users
(per 1,000 people)
1990
2002

101
102
103
104
105

Iran, Islamic Rep. of
Occupied Palestinian Territories
El Salvador
Guyana
Cape Verde

40
..
24
20
24

187
87
103
92
160

0
0
0
0
0

33
93
138
99
98

0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

48.5
30.4
46.5
142.2
36.4

4
..
..
..
..

..
..
0.2
45.0
1.2

..
..
(.)
..
..

590
..
47
..
..

106
107
108
109
110

Syrian Arab Republic
Uzbekistan
Algeria
Equatorial Guinea
Kyrgyzstan

41
69
32
4
72

123
66
61
17
77

0
0
(.)
0
0

23
7
13
63
10

0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

12.9
10.9
16.0
3.6
29.8

3
16
0
..
13

..
..
..
..
0.5

0.2
..
..
..
0.2

29
1,754
..
..
581

111
112
113
114
115

Indonesia
Viet Nam
Moldova, Rep. of
Bolivia
Honduras

6
1
106
28
17

37
48
161
68
48

(.)
0
0
0
0

55
23
77
105
49

0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

37.7
18.5
34.1
32.4
25.2

0
(.)
47
..
(.)

..
..
0.3
0.2
0.0

..
..
0.6
0.3
..

130
274
329
123
73

116
117
118
119
120

Tajikistan
Mongolia
Nicaragua
South Africa
Egypt

45
32
13
93
30

37
53
32
107
110

0
0
0
(.)
(.)

2
89
38
304
67

0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

0.5
20.6
16.8
68.2
28.2

3
32
1
0
1

0.1
0.0
..
1.0
0.5

..
..
0.1
..
0.2

660
531
73
992
493

121
122
123
124
125

Guatemala
Gabon
São Tomé and Principe
Solomon Islands
Morocco

21
22
19
15
16

71
25
41
15
38

(.)
0
0
0
(.)

131
215
13
2
209

0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

33.3
19.2
72.8
5.0
23.6

(.)
..
..
..
0

0.0
..
..
..
0.4

..
..
..
..
..

103
..
..
..
..

126
127
128
129
130

Namibia
India
Botswana
Vanuatu
Cambodia

39
6
21
18
(.)

65
40
87
33
3

0
0
0
0
0

80
12
241
24
28

0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

26.7
15.9
29.7
34.6
2.2

..
0
0
..
..

1.9
(.)
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
157
..
..
..

131
132
133
134
135

Ghana
Myanmar
Papua New Guinea
Bhutan
Lao People’s Dem. Rep.

3
2
8
4
2

13
7
11
28
11

0
0
0
0
0

21
1
3
0
10

0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

7.8
0.5
13.7
14.5
2.7

0
..
..
..
..

..
(.)
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

136
137
138
139
140
141

Comoros
Swaziland
Bangladesh
Sudan
Nepal
Cameroon

8
17
2
3
3
3

13
34
5
21
14
7

0
0
0
0
0
0

0
66
8
6
1
43

0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

4.2
19.4
1.5
2.6
3.4
3.8

..
0
..
0
..
..

..
0.1
(.)
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
51
..
..
3

8
3
7
7
2

25
10
7
13
2

(.)
0
0
0
0

8
35
67
45
16

0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

10.3
41.0
1.5
9.7
4.0

(.)
..
..
0
0

(.)
(.)
..
5.9
(.)

..
..
..
..
0.8

69
102
33
..
24

13
8
11
3
3

25
10
28
4
5

0
0
0
0
0

30
37
21
10
13

0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

43.0
12.5
5.1
3.5
3.5

(.)
(.)
..
0
..

..
0.2
..
(.)
..

..
..
..
0.1
..

..
..
..
15
15

c

c

c

d

d

Low human development
142
143
144
145
146

Pakistan
Togo
Congo
Lesotho
Uganda

147
148
149
150
151

Zimbabwe
Kenya
Yemen
Madagascar
Nigeria

182

c

c

d

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

12 Technology:
diffusion and
creation

MDG
Telephone mainlines a
(per 1,000 people)
1990
2002

HDI rank

MDG
Cellular subscribers a
(per 1,000 people)
1990
2002

MDG
Internet users
(per 1,000 people)
1990
2002

Receipts of
royalties Research
Patents
and
and
granted
licence development Researchers
to residents
fees
(R&D)
in R&D
(per million (US$ per expenditures (per million
people)
person)
(% of GDP)
people)
2000
2002
1996-2002 b 1990-2001 b

152
153
154
155
156

Mauritania
Haiti
Djibouti
Gambia
Eritrea

3
7
11
7
..

12
16
15
29
9

0
0
0
0
0

92
17
23
75
0

0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

3.7
9.6
6.9
18.8
2.3

..
..
..
0
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

157
158
159
160
161

Senegal
Timor-Leste
Rwanda
Guinea
Benin

6
..
2
2
3

22
0
3
3
9

0
..
0
0
0

55
0.0
14
12
32

0.0
..
0.0
0.0
0.0

10.4
..
3.1
4.6
7.4

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
0.0
(.)
(.)

(.)
..
..
..
..

2
30
..
174

162
163
164
165
166

Tanzania, U. Rep. of
Côte d’Ivoire
Zambia
Malawi
Angola

3
6
8
3
8

5
20
8
7
6

0
0
0
0
0

22
62
13
8
9

0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

2.3
5.5
4.8
2.6
2.9

0
..
0
(.)
..

0.0
(.)
..
0.0
0.3

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

167
168
169
170
171

Chad
Congo, Dem. Rep. of the
Central African Republic
Ethiopia
Mozambique

1
1
2
3
3

2
(.)
2
5
5

0
0
0
0
0

4
11
3
1
14

0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

1.9
0.9
1.3
0.7
2.7

..
..
..
0
0

..
..
..
0.0
0.0

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
47
..
..

172
173
174
175
176
177

Guinea-Bissau
Burundi
Mali
Burkina Faso
Niger
Sierra Leone

6
1
1
2
1
3

9
3
5
5
2
5

0
0
0
0
0
0

0
7
5
8
1
14

0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

4.0
1.2
2.4
2.1
1.3
1.6

..
..
..
..
..
0

..
0.0
(.)
..
..
..

..
..
..
0.2
..
..

..
21
..
16
..
..

Developing countries
Least developed countries
Arab States
East Asia and the Pacific
Latin America and the Caribbean
South Asia
Sub-Saharan Africa
Central & Eastern Europe & CIS
OECD
High-income OECD

29
3
79
18
89
7
5
120
365
439

96
7
81
142
166
41
15
226
516
590

(.)
0
(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)
10
13

101
10
85
159
191
13
39
189
588
650

(.)
0.0
0.0
(.)
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
2.6
3.2

40.9
2.8
28.0
60.9
81.2
14.9
9.6
71.8
383.1
450.5

..
..
..
..
1
..
..
30
290
360

0.3
(.)
0.2
0.5
0.8
(.)
0.1
1.7
68.4
85.6

0.6
..
..
1.6
0.5
..
..
1.0
2.6
2.6

High human development
Medium human development
Low human development

290
24
4

507
111
11

10
(.)
(.)

582
104
15

2.5
0.0
0.0

382.6
37.3
5.9

253
3
..

66.4
0.2
(.)

2.6
..
..

High income
Middle income
Low income

420
49
6

584
168
28

13
(.)
(.)

653
176
17

3.1
0.0
0.0

445.8
59.5
13.0

350
5
..

82.9
0.5
(.)

2.6
0.7
..

81

175

2

184

0.5

99.4

48

12.9

2.5

World

c

c

c

c

e

e

e

d

d

d

384
..
..
607
285
160
..
2,289
2,908
3,483

f

2,890
555
..

f

3,449
751
..

f

1,096

f

f
f
f

f
f
f

f

f

a. Telephone mainlines and cellular subscribers combined form an indicator for Millennium Development Goal 8; see Index to Millennium Development Goal indicators in Statistical feature 1, The state of human development. b. Data refer to the most recent year available during the period specified. c. Data refer to 2001. d. Data refer to a year prior to 1990. e. Data refer to 1999. f. Data refer to 1996.
Source: Columns 1-6: ITU 2004; column 7: calculated on the basis of data on patents granted to residents from WIPO 2004 and data on population from UN 2003; column 8: calculated on the basis of data on population from UN 2003 and data on receipts of royalties and licence fees from World Bank 2004f, based on data from the International Monetary Fund; columns 9 and 10: World Bank 2004f, based on data from the United
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization; aggregates calculated for the Human Development Report Office by the World Bank.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

183

. . . TO HAVE ACCESS TO THE RESOURCES NEEDED FOR A DECENT STANDARD OF LIVING . . .

13 Economic
performance

GDP
US$
PPP US$
billions
billions
2002
2002

HDI rank

GDP per capita
GDP per capita
annual growth rate
Highest
(%)
value during Year of
19751990- 1975-2002
highest
2002
2002
(PPP US$)
value

GDP per capita
US$
PPP US$
2002
2002

Average
annual change in
consumer price index
(%)
1990-2002 2001-02

High human development
1
2
3
4
5

Norway
Sweden
Australia
Canada
Netherlands

190.5
240.3
409.4
714.3
417.9

166.1
232.5
555.7
924.7
469.9

41,974
26,929
20,822
22,777
25,886

36,600
26,050
28,260
29,480
29,100

2.8
1.5
1.9
1.5
1.9

3.0
2.0
2.6
2.2
2.2

36,750
26,050
28,260
29,480
29,100

2001
2002
2002
2002
2002

2.2
1.8
2.3
1.8
2.5

1.3
2.1
3.0
2.2
3.5

6
7
8
9
10

Belgium
Iceland
United States
Japan
Ireland

245.4
8.4
10,383.1
3,993.4
121.4

284.9
8.4
10,308.0
3,425.1
142.5

23,749
29,749
36,006
31,407
30,982

27,570
29,750
35,750
26,940
36,360

1.9
1.7
2.0
2.6
4.4

1.8
2.1
2.0
1.0
6.8

27,570
30,600
35,750
26,940
36,360

2002
2001
2002
2002
2002

1.9
3.1
2.6
0.5
2.6

1.6
5.2
1.6
-0.9
4.7

11
12
13
14
15

Switzerland
United Kingdom
Finland
Austria
Luxembourg

267.4
1,566.3
131.5
204.1
21.0

218.8
1,549.1
136.1
235.2
27.2

36,687
26,444
25,295
25,356
47,354

30,010
26,150
26,190
29,220
61,190

0.9
2.1
2.0
2.1
4.0

0.4
2.4
2.5
1.9
3.7

30,230
26,150
26,190
29,230
61,190

2001
2002
2002
2001
2002

1.4
2.7
1.6
2.1
2.0

0.6
1.6
0.8
1.8
2.1

16
17
18
19
20

France
Denmark
New Zealand
Germany
Spain

1,431.3
172.9
58.6
1,984.1
653.1

1,601.4
166.3
85.6
2,235.8
878.0

24,061
32,179
14,872
24,051
15,961

26,920
30,940
21,740
27,100
21,460

1.7
1.6
1.0
2.0
2.2

1.6
2.1
2.1
1.3
2.3

26,920
30,940
21,740
27,190
21,460

2002
2002
2002
2001
2002

1.6
2.1
1.9
2.1
3.6

1.9
2.4
2.7
1.3
3.1

21
22
23
24
25

Italy
Israel
Hong Kong, China (SAR)
Greece
Singapore

1,184.3
103.7
161.5
132.8
87.0

1,524.7
128.2
182.6
199.0
100.1

20,528
15,792
23,800
12,494
20,886

26,430
19,530
26,910
18,720
24,040

2.0
2.0
4.4
1.1
5.0

1.5
1.8
2.2
2.2
3.8

26,430
21,330
26,910
18,720
24,650

2002
2000
2002
2002
2000

3.4
8.3
4.1
7.7
1.5

2.5
5.6
-3.0
3.6
-0.4

26
27
28
29
30

Portugal
Slovenia
Korea, Rep. of
Barbados
Cyprus

121.6
22.0
476.7
2.5
10.1

186.1
36.4
807.3
4.1
13.8

11,948
11,181
10,006
9,423
13,210

18,280
18,540
16,950
15,290
18,150

2.9
..
6.1
1.2
4.7

2.5
4.2
4.7
1.6
3.2

2002
2002
2002
2000
2001

4.2
19.8
4.7
2.4
3.4

31
32
33
34
35

Malta
Czech Republic
Brunei Darussalam
Argentina
Seychelles

3.9
69.5
..
102.0
0.7

7.0
161.1
..
412.7
..

9,748
6,808
..
2,797
8,320

17,640
15,780
..
10,880
..

4.4
..
..
0.4
3.0

3.6
1.4
..
1.7
2.6

18,610
15,780
..
13,440
..

2000
2002
..
1998
..

2.9
6.7
..
7.2
2.2

36
37
38
39
40

Estonia
Poland
Hungary
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Bahrain

6.5
189.0
65.8
0.4
7.7

16.6
407.7
136.1
0.6
12.0

4,792
4,894
6,481
7,745
11,007

12,260
10,560
13,400
12,420
17,170

-0.2
..
1.0
5.3
1.1

2.3
4.2
2.4
3.5
1.5

12,260
10,560
13,400
12,420
17,170

b

2002
2002
2002
2002
2002

16.7
21.0
18.0
3.4
0.7

b

41
42
43
44
45

Lithuania
Slovakia
Chile
Kuwait
Costa Rica

13.8
23.7
64.2
35.4
16.8

35.8
69.0
153.1
37.8
34.9

3,977
4,403
4,115
15,193
4,271

10,320
12,840
9,820
16,240
8,840

..
0.3
4.1
-1.2
1.2

-0.3
2.1
4.4
-1.7
2.7

11,820
12,840
9,820
29,180
9,650

b

1990
2002
2002
1975
1999

22.7
8.3
7.7
1.9
14.6

b

46
47
48
49
50

Uruguay
Qatar
Croatia
United Arab Emirates
Latvia

12.1
17.5
22.4
71.0
8.4

26.3
..
45.7
..
21.5

3,609
28,634
5,025
22,051
3,595

7,830
..
10,240
..
9,210

1.3
..
..
-2.8
-0.5

1998
..
2002
1975
1989

27.5
2.6
61.3
..
21.7

184

a

c

a

c

b

b
b

b

b

1.4
..
2.1
(.)
0.2

b

b

18,280
18,540
16,950
15,900
18,360

9,680
..
10,240
47,790
11,050

b

b

b

b

b
b

b

b

b
b

b

b

b
b

b

b

3.5
3.0
2.8
0.2
2.8
1.7
1.8
..
25.9
0.2
3.6
1.9
5.5
..
..
0.4
3.3
2.5
1.4
9.2
14.0
1.0
2.0
..
2.0

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

13 Economic
performance

GDP
US$
PPP US$
billions
billions
2002
2002

HDI rank
51
52
53
54
55

Bahamas
Cuba
Mexico
Trinidad and Tobago
Antigua and Barbuda

4.8
..
637.2
9.6
0.7

d

5.1
..
904.6
12.3
0.8

d

GDP per capita
GDP per capita
annual growth rate
Highest
(%)
value during Year of
19751990- 1975-2002
highest
2002
2002
(PPP US$)
value

GDP per capita
US$
PPP US$
2002
2002
15,797
..
6,320
7,384
10,449

d

16,690
..
8,970
9,430
10,920

d

1.5
..
0.9
0.8
4.3

b

b

b

17,930
..
9,240
9,430
10,920

b

(.)
-2.4
..
3.6
-0.7

7,890
11,030
..
9,280
7,350

b

2.5
0.2
2.2
4.0
6.0

6,510
5,520
6,850
10,810
4,830

0.1
3.5
1.4
2.9
2.6

b
b

b

Average
annual change in
consumer price index
(%)
1990-2002 2001-02

1989
..
2000
2002
2002

2.0
..
17.7
5.4
..

1988
1989
..
2000
1991

94.0
75.2
..
3.3
6.5

2000
2002
2002
2002
2002

1.1
258.0
3.9
6.6
21.6

..
..
1977
1990
1989

..
88.0
43.2
85.5
116.7

1998
2002
1997
2001
..

2.6
134.1
18.3
-0.1
3.7

1.6
8.4
3.2
-0.7
8.1

1996
1977
1990
1991
1997

4.3
0.7
45.6
19.7
..

0.6
-0.5
5.9
7.1
..

1999
1990
1982
..
1981

3.2
44.7
7.6
5.6
20.9

b

2.2
..
5.0
..
..

Medium human development
56
57
58
59
60

Bulgaria
Russian Federation
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
Malaysia
Macedonia, TFYR

61
62
63
64
65

Panama
Belarus
Tonga
Mauritius
Albania

66
67
68
69
70

Bosnia and Herzegovina
Suriname
Venezuela
Romania
Ukraine

71
72
73
74
75

15.5
346.5
19.1
94.9
3.8

56.8
1,185.6
..
221.7
13.2

1,944
2,405
3,512
3,905
1,860

7,130
8,230
..
9,120
6,470

0.1
..
..
4.0
..

12.3
14.3
0.1
4.5
4.8

18.1
54.8
0.7
13.1
15.2

4,182
1,441
1,347
3,740
1,535

6,170
5,520
6,850
10,810
4,830

1.0
..
1.9
4.6
0.3

5.6
1.0
94.3
45.7
41.5

..
..
135.1
146.2
237.3

1,362
2,199
3,760
2,052
851

..
..
5,380
6,560
4,870

..
-0.8
-1.0
-1.1
-6.6

Saint Lucia
Brazil
Colombia
Oman
Samoa (Western)

0.7
452.4
80.9
20.3
0.3

0.8
1,355.0
278.6
33.8
1.0

4,124
2,593
1,850
8,002
1,484

5,300
7,770
6,370
13,340
5,600

3.7
0.8
1.5
2.2
..

76
77
78
79
80

Thailand
Saudi Arabia
Kazakhstan
Jamaica
Lebanon

126.9
188.5
24.6
7.9
17.3

431.9
276.9
87.4
10.4
19.4

2,060
8,612
1,656
3,008
3,894

7,010
12,650
5,870
3,980
4,360

5.2
-2.5
..
0.4
3.6

81
82
83
84
85

Fiji
Armenia
Philippines
Maldives
Peru

1.9
2.4
78.0
0.6
56.5

4.5
9.6
333.5
..
134.1

2,281
771
975
2,182
2,113

5,440
3,120
4,170
..
5,010

0.9
..
0.2
..
-0.6

86
87
88
89
90

Turkmenistan
St. Vincent & the Grenadines
Turkey
Paraguay
Jordan

7.7
0.4
183.7
5.5
9.3

20.1
0.6
444.8
25.4
21.8

1,601
3,082
2,638
1,000
1,799

4,250
5,460
6,390
4,610
4,220

91
92
93
94
95

Azerbaijan
Tunisia
Grenada
China
Dominica

6.1
21.0
0.4
1,266.1
0.2

26.2
66.2
0.7
5,860.9
0.4

745
2,149
4,060
989
3,438

3,210
6,760
7,280
4,580
5,640

..
2.1
3.7
8.2
3.3

16.6
3.4
21.7
0.8
24.3

67.7
11.7
57.2
1.5
45.9

873
656
2,514
3,332
1,897

3,570
2,260
6,640
6,080
3,580

3.4
-5.2
1.9
2.8
0.1

96
97
98
99
100

Sri Lanka
Georgia
Dominican Republic
Belize
Ecuador

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

c

c

-4.4
3.3
1.8
0.7
0.3

b
b
b

b
b
b

b

b

b

b

18.0
0.5
-1.0
0.1
-6.0
0.2
1.3
0.4
0.9
3.2

b

b

..
..
7,810
6,810
9,550
5,850
7,770
6,720
13,710
..

2.9
-0.6
-0.7
-0.1
3.1

7,080
23,980
5,920
4,060
4,520

1.8
1.7
1.1
4.7
2.2

5,610
3,460
4,460
..
5,740

b

-3.2
1.1
1.3
-0.5
0.9
0.2
3.1
2.7
8.6
1.4
3.4
-3.9
4.2
1.7
(.)

b

b

b

b
b
b
b

b
b
b

b

b

b

b

7,130
5,490
6,470
5,270
5,100

b

1992
2000
2000
1981
1987

..
2.0
75.5
12.0
3.1

3,580
6,760
7,700
4,580
6,180

b

1992
2002
2000
2002
2000

109.1
4.0
2.3
6.7
1.7

2000
1985
2002
2002
1988

9.8
17.7
8.3
1.7
38.6

3,590
6,910
6,640
6,080
3,690

b

b

b

b

b

b

b

b

b

b

5.8
15.8
..
1.8
0.1
1.0
42.5
10.4
6.7
7.8
..
..
22.4
22.5
..

0.8
1.1
3.1
0.9
0.2
..
0.8
45
10.5
1.8

b

b

b

2.8
2.8
..
-0.6
-0.1
9.6
5.6
5.2
2.2
12.5

185

13 Economic
performance

GDP
US$
PPP US$
billions
billions
2002
2002

HDI rank
101
102
103
104
105

Iran, Islamic Rep. of
Occupied Palestinian Territories
El Salvador
Guyana
Cape Verde

106
107
108
109
110

Syrian Arab Republic
Uzbekistan
Algeria
Equatorial Guinea
Kyrgyzstan

111
112
113
114
115

GDP per capita
GDP per capita
annual growth rate
Highest
(%)
value during Year of
19751990- 1975-2002
highest
2002
2002
(PPP US$)
value

GDP per capita
US$
PPP US$
2002
2002

108.2
3.4
14.3
0.7
0.6

438.3
..
31.4
3.3
2.3

1,652
1,051
2,226
937
1,345

6,690
..
4,890
4,260
5,000

-0.4
..
0.2
0.6
3.0

20.8
7.9
55.9
2.1
1.6

61.5
42.1
180.4
14.0
8.1

1,224
314
1,785
4,394
320

3,620
1,670
5,760
29,780
1,620

0.9
-1.5
-0.2
12.7
-3.6

Indonesia
Viet Nam
Moldova, Rep. of
Bolivia
Honduras

172.9
35.1
1.6
7.8
6.6

682.9
185.4
6.2
21.6
17.7

817
436
382
886
966

3,230
2,300
1,470
2,460
2,600

4.2
5.0
-5.4
-0.4
0.1

116
117
118
119
120

Tajikistan
Mongolia
Nicaragua
South Africa
Egypt

1.2
1.1
4.0
104.2
89.9

6.1
4.2
13.2
456.8
252.6

193
457
749
2,299
1,354

980
1,710
2,470
10,070
3,810

-9.0
-0.3
-2.9
-0.7
2.8

121
122
123
124
125

Guatemala
Gabon
São Tomé and Principe
Solomon Islands
Morocco

23.3
5.0
0.1
0.2
36.1

48.9
8.7
..
0.7
112.9

1,941
3,780
326
541
1,218

4,080
6,590
..
1,590
3,810

0.1
-1.5
-0.6
1.6
1.3

126
127
128
129
130

Namibia
India
Botswana
Vanuatu
Cambodia

2.9
510.2
5.3
0.2
4.0

12.3
2,799.6
14.0
0.6
25.7

1,463
487
3,080
1,138
321

6,210
2,670
8,170
2,890
2,060

-0.2
3.3
5.1
0.2
..

131
132
133
134
135

Ghana
Myanmar
Papua New Guinea
Bhutan
Lao People’s Dem. Rep.

6.2
..
2.8
0.6
1.7

43.1
..
12.2
..
9.5

304
..
523
695
304

2,130
..
2,270
..
1,720

0.3
1.8
0.4
4.0
3.3

136
137
138
139
140
141

Comoros
Swaziland
Bangladesh
Sudan
Nepal
Cameroon

0.3
1.2
47.6
13.5
5.5
9.1

1.0
4.9
230.0
59.5
33.1
31.5

437
1,091
351
412
230
575

1,690
4,550
1,700
1,820
1,370
2,000

-1.0
1.8
1.9
0.9
2.1
-0.6

408
291
825
402
236

1,940
1,480
980
2,420
1,390

2.6
-1.2
(.)
3.2
2.6

639
393
537
268
328

2,370
1,020
870
740
860

c

c

b

b

b
b

b
b

b
b

b

b

b

b

b
b
b

2.2
-4.9
2.3
4.1
3.4

b

8,290
..
5,330
4,400
5,000

1.8
-0.9
0.3
20.8
-3.2

3,630
1,850
6,190
30,130
2,530

2.1
5.9
-6.9
1.1
0.3

3,430
2,300
3,890
2,650
2,820

-8.1
0.2
1.5
(.)
2.5

2,730
2,110
5,250
12,410
3,810

1.3
-0.2
-0.4
-2.4
0.8

4,170
11,560
..
2,580
3,810

0.9
4.0
2.5
-0.1
4.1

8,940
2,670
8,170
3,860
2,060

1.8
5.7
0.5
3.6
3.8

b

b

2,130
..
2,840
..
1,720

-1.4
0.1
3.1
3.1
2.3
-0.1

2,140
4,690
1,700
1,820
1,410
2,810

1.1
-0.7
-1.6
2.4
3.9

1,980
2,180
1,290
2,420
1,390

-0.8
-0.6
2.5
-0.9
-0.3

3,060
1,180
870
1,250
1,070

b

b

b
b

b
b

b
b

b

b
b

b
b

Average
annual change in
consumer price index
(%)
1990-2002 2001-02

1976
..
1978
1997
2002

23.6
..
7.2
5.8
4.9

1998
1991
1985
2001
1990

5.1
..
14.0
..
18.7

1997
2002
1990
1978
1979

14.0
2.9
18.5
7.5
17.2

1988
1989
1977
1981
2002

..
39.0
27.1
8.1
7.5

1980
1976
..
1996
2002

9.4
4.6
..
10.8
3.3

1980
2002
2002
1984
2002

9.5
8.3
9.8
2.7
4.7

2002
..
1994
..
2002

27.4
25.4
10.0
8.4
30.0

1985
1998
2002
2002
2001
1986

..
9.2
5.0
66.8
7.4
5.5

2000
1980
1996
2002
2002

8.6
7.2
7.9
9.0
8.5

1998
1990
2002
1975
1977

36.1
13.3
32.6
16.8
27.8

b

b

b
b

b
b

b

b

b

b

b

14.3
..
1.9
5.3
1.5
-1.8
..
1.4
..
2.1
12.7
3.8
5.1
0.9
7.7
..
..
..
10.0
2.7
8.0
..
..
..
2.8
11.3
4.4
8.0
..
3.2
14.8
57.1
11.8
..
10.6
..
12.0
4.9
..
-0.9
2.8

Low human development
142
143
144
145
146

Pakistan
Togo
Congo
Lesotho
Uganda

59.1
1.4
3.0
0.7
5.8

281.3
7.0
3.6
4.3
34.1

147
148
149
150
151

Zimbabwe
Kenya
Yemen
Madagascar
Nigeria

8.3
12.3
10.0
4.4
43.5

30.5
31.9
16.2
12.2
113.6

186

c

c

(.)
0.3
..
-1.6
-0.6

b

b
b

b

b
b

b

3.3
3.1
4.6
33.1
-0.3
140.1
2.0
..
15.9
12.9

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

13 Economic
performance

GDP
US$
PPP US$
billions
billions
2002
2002

HDI rank

GDP per capita
US$
PPP US$
2002
2002

GDP per capita
GDP per capita
annual growth rate
Highest
(%)
value during Year of
19751990- 1975-2002
highest
2002
2002
(PPP US$)
value

152
153
154
155
156

Mauritania
Haiti
Djibouti
Gambia
Eritrea

1.0
3.4
0.6
0.4
0.6

6.2
13.3
1.4
2.4
3.8

348
415
861
257
150

2,220
1,610
1,990
1,690
890

0.3
-2.3
-4.6
-0.2
..

157
158
159
160
161

Senegal
Timor-Leste
Rwanda
Guinea
Benin

5.0
0.4
1.7
3.2
2.7

15.8
..
10.4
16.2
7.0

503
497
212
415
411

1,580
..
1,270
2,100
1,070

-0.1
..
-0.6
1.5
0.6

162
163
164
165
166

Tanzania, U. Rep. of
Côte d’Ivoire
Zambia
Malawi
Angola

9.4
11.7
3.7
1.9
11.2

20.4
25.1
8.6
6.2
28.0

267
707
361
177
857

580
1,520
840
580
2,130

0.6
-2.0
-2.1
0.2
-1.5

167
168
169
170
171

Chad
Congo, Dem. Rep. of the
Central African Republic
Ethiopia
Mozambique

2.0
5.7
1.0
6.1
3.6

8.5
33.7
4.5
52.6
19.3

240
111
274
90
195

1,020
650
1,170
780
1,050

(.)
0.0
-1.5
0.2
2.0

172
173
174
175
176
177

Guinea-Bissau
Burundi
Mali
Burkina Faso
Niger
Sierra Leone

0.2
0.7
3.4
3.1
2.2
0.8

1.0
4.5
10.5
13.0
9.1
2.7

141
102
296
264
190
150

710
630
930
1,100
800
520

-0.3
-0.9
-0.2
1.1
-1.9
-3.3

Developing countries
Least developed countries
Arab States
East Asia and the Pacific
Latin America and the Caribbean
South Asia
Sub-Saharan Africa
Central & Eastern Europe & CIS
OECD
High-income OECD

6,189.3
204.7
712.3
2,562.6
1,676.1
757.1
303.5
971.1
26,298.9
25,129.9

T 19,848.5 T
T
897.7 T
T 1,466.3 T
T 9,046.9 T
T
3,796.1 T
T 3,898.7 T
T
1,157.4 T
T 2,914.7 T
T 28,491.5 T
T 26,368.2 T

1,264
298
2,462
1,351
3,189
516
469
2,396
22,987
27,638

4,054
1,307
5,069
4,768
7,223
2,658
1,790
7,192
24,904
29,000

2.3
0.5
0.1
5.9
0.7
2.4
-0.8
-1.5
2.0
2.1

High human development
Medium human development
Low human development

26,924.9 T 29,435.4 T
4,659.1 T 17,763.5 T
233.9 T
860.0 T

22,690
1,120
322

24,806
4,269
1,184

2.0
1.7
0.1

High income
Middle income
Low income

25,767.9 T
5,138.5 T
1,123.9 T

27,115.7 T
16,174.9 T
5,359.9 T

27,312
1,877
451

28,741
5,908
2,149

2.1
1.4
2.2

World

31,927.2 T

48,151.1 T

5,174

7,804

1.3

b

b

b

b

b
b

b

b

e

e

1.6
-3.0
-3.8
(.)
1.5

b

1.2
..
0.3
1.7
2.1

2,220
3,050
..
2,070
1,010
1,640
..
1,420
2,100
1,070

b

b

b

b

Average
annual change in
consumer price index
(%)
1990-2002 2001-02

2002
1980
..
1986
1998

5.7
19.8
..
4.0
..

1976
..
1983
2002
2002

4.6
..
13.3
..
7.2

2002
1978
1976
1979
1992

17.8
6.3
52.7
32.6
563.0

1977
1975
1977
2002
2002

7.7
693.8
4.6
4.0
26.6

5.2
24.9
2.9
1.6
16.8

1997
1991
2002
2002
1979
1982

27.5
15.3
4.6
4.9
5.4
24.5

-0.6
-1.4
5.0
2.2
2.6
-3.3

b

b

b

3.8
9.9
..
..
..
2.2
..
2.5
..
2.5

0.7
-0.1
-1.2
1.1
-0.1

580
2,680
1,470
640
2,850

-0.5
..
-0.2
2.3
4.5

1,100
2,400
1,670
780
1,050

-2.2
-3.9
1.7
1.6
-0.8
-5.9

1,070
930
930
1,100
1,360
1,120

2.8
1.4
1.0
5.4
1.3
3.2
(.)
-0.9
1.7
1.7

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

1.7
2.1
0.3

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..

..

..

..

1.7
2.0
2.3
1.2

e

e

b

b
b

b

b

4.6
3.1
..
14.7
108.9

a. In theory, for the United States the value of GDP in PPP US dollars should be the same as that in US dollars, but practical issues arising in the calculation of the PPP US dollar GDP prevent this. b. Data refer to a period
shorter than that specified. c. Data refer to 2001. d. Data refer to 2000. e. India’s growth rate accounts for most of the difference in average annual growth rates of low income and low human development countries.
Source: Columns 1 and 2: World Bank 2004f, aggregates calculated for the Human Development Report Office by the World Bank; columns 3 and 4: calculated on the basis of GDP and population data from World Bank
2004f, aggregates calculated for the Human Development Report Office by the World Bank; columns 5 and 6: World Bank 2004b, aggregates calculated for the Human Development Report Office by the World Bank
using least squares method; columns 7 and 8: based on GDP per capita PPP US$ time series from World Bank 2004f; columns 9 and 10: calculated on the basis of data on the consumer price index from World Bank
2004f.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

187

. . . TO HAVE ACCESS TO THE RESOURCES NEEDED FOR A DECENT STANDARD OF LIVING . . .

14 Inequality in
income or
consumption

Survey
year

HDI rank

MDG
Share of income or consumption
(%)
Poorest 10% Poorest 20% Richest 20% Richest 10%

Richest
10% to
poorest
10% a

Inequality measures
Richest
20% to
poorest
20% a
Gini index b

High human development
1
2
3
4
5

Norway
Sweden
Australia
Canada
Netherlands

2000
2000
1994
1998
1994

c

6
7
8
9
10

Belgium
Iceland
United States
Japan
Ireland

1996
..
2000
1993
1996

c

11
12
13
14
15

Switzerland
United Kingdom
Finland
Austria
Luxembourg

1992
1999
2000
1997
2000

c

16
17
18
19
20

France
Denmark
New Zealand
Germany
Spain

1995
1997
1997
2000
1990

c

21
22
23
24
25

Italy
Israel
Hong Kong, China (SAR)
Greece
Singapore

2000
1997
1996
1998
1998

c

26
27
28
29
30

Portugal
Slovenia
Korea, Rep. of
Barbados
Cyprus

1997
1998/99
1998
..
..

c

31
32
33
34
35

Malta
Czech Republic
Brunei Darussalam
Argentina d
Seychelles

..
1996
..
2001
..

36
37
38
39
40

Estonia
Poland
Hungary
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Bahrain

2000
1999
1999
..
..

c

41
42
43
44
45

Lithuania
Slovakia
Chile
Kuwait
Costa Rica

2000
1996
2000
..
2000

e

2000
..
2001
..
1998

c

46
47
48
49
50

188

d

Uruguay
Qatar
Croatia
United Arab Emirates
Latvia

c
c
c
c

c
c
c

c
c
c
c

c
c
c
c

c
c
c
c

c
c

c

c

e
e

c
c

c

e

c

3.9
3.6
2.0
2.5
2.8

9.6
9.1
5.9
7.0
7.3

37.2
36.6
41.3
40.4
40.1

23.4
22.2
25.4
25.0
25.1

6.1
6.2
12.5
10.1
9.0

3.9
4.0
7.0
5.8
5.5

25.8
25.0
35.2
33.1
32.6

2.9
..
1.9
4.8
2.8

8.3
..
5.4
10.6
7.1

37.3
..
45.8
35.7
43.3

22.6
..
29.9
21.7
27.6

7.8
..
15.9
4.5
9.7

4.5
..
8.4
3.4
6.1

25.0
..
40.8
24.9
35.9

2.6
2.1
4.0
3.1
3.5

6.9
6.1
9.6
8.1
8.4

40.3
44.0
36.7
38.5
38.9

25.2
28.5
22.6
23.5
23.8

9.9
13.8
5.6
7.6
6.8

5.8
7.2
3.8
4.7
4.6

33.1
36.0
26.9
30.0
30.8

2.8
2.6
2.2
3.2
2.8

7.2
8.3
6.4
8.5
7.5

40.2
35.8
43.8
36.9
40.3

25.1
21.3
27.8
22.1
25.2

9.1
8.1
12.5
6.9
9.0

5.6
4.3
6.8
4.3
5.4

32.7
24.7
36.2
28.3
32.5

2.3
2.4
2.0
2.9
1.9

6.5
6.9
5.3
7.1
5.0

42.0
44.3
50.7
43.6
49.0

26.8
28.2
34.9
28.5
32.8

11.6
11.7
17.8
10.0
17.7

6.5
6.4
9.7
6.2
9.7

36.0
35.5
43.4
35.4
42.5

2.0
3.6
2.9
..
..

5.8
9.1
7.9
..
..

45.9
35.7
37.5
..
..

29.8
21.4
22.5
..
..

15.0
5.9
7.8
..
..

8.0
3.9
4.7
..
..

38.5
28.4
31.6
..
..

..
4.3
..
1.0
..

..
10.3
..
3.1
..

..
35.9
..
56.4
..

..
22.4
..
38.9
..

..
5.2
..
39.1
..

..
3.5
..
18.1
..

..
25.4
..
52.2
..

1.9
2.9
2.6
..
..

6.1
7.3
7.7
..
..

44.0
42.5
37.5
..
..

28.5
27.4
22.8
..
..

14.9
9.3
8.9
..
..

7.2
5.8
4.9
..
..

37.2
31.6
24.4
..
..

3.2
3.1
1.2
..
1.4

7.9
8.8
3.3
..
4.2

40.0
34.8
62.2
..
51.5

24.9
20.9
47.0
..
34.8

7.9
6.7
40.6
..
25.1

5.1
4.0
18.7
..
12.3

31.9
25.8
57.1
..
46.5

1.8
..
3.4
..
2.9

4.8
..
8.3
..
7.6

50.1
..
39.6
..
40.3

33.5
..
24.5
`
25.9

18.9
..
7.3
..
8.9

10.4
..
4.8
..
5.3

44.6
..
29.0
..
32.4

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

14 Inequality in
income or
consumption

Survey
year

HDI rank
51
52
53
54
55

Bahamas
Cuba
Mexico
Trinidad and Tobago
Antigua and Barbuda

..
..
2000
1992
..

c
c

MDG
Share of income or consumption
(%)
Poorest 10% Poorest 20% Richest 20% Richest 10%

Richest
10% to
poorest
10% a

Inequality measures
Richest
20% to
poorest
20% a
Gini index b

..
..
1.0
2.1
..

..
..
3.1
5.5
..

..
..
59.1
45.9
..

..
..
43.1
29.9
..

..
..
45.0
14.4
..

..
..
19.3
8.3
..

..
..
54.6
40.3
..

2.4
1.8
..
1.7
3.3

6.7
4.9
..
4.4
8.4

38.9
51.3
..
54.3
36.7

23.7
36.0
..
38.4
22.1

9.9
20.3
..
22.1
6.8

5.8
10.5
..
12.4
4.4

31.9
45.6
..
49.2
28.2

0.7
3.5
..
..
3.8

2.4
8.4
..
..
9.1

60.3
39.1
..
..
37.4

43.3
24.1
..
..
22.4

62.3
6.9
..
..
5.9

24.7
4.6
..
..
4.1

56.4
30.4
..
..
28.2

3.9
..
0.6
3.3
3.7

9.5
..
3.0
8.2
8.8

35.8
..
53.4
38.4
37.8

21.4
..
36.3
23.6
23.2

5.4
..
62.9
7.2
6.4

3.8
..
17.9
4.7
4.3

26.2
..
49.1
30.3
29.0

2.0
0.5
0.8
..
..

5.2
2.0
2.7
..
..

48.3
64.4
61.8
..
..

32.5
46.7
46.5
..
..

16.2
85.0
57.8
..
..

9.2
31.5
22.9
..
..

42.6
59.1
57.6
..
..

2.5
..
3.4
2.7
..

6.1
..
8.2
6.7
..

50.0
..
39.6
46.0
..

33.8
..
24.2
30.3
..

13.4
..
7.1
11.4
..

8.3
..
4.8
6.9
..

43.2
..
31.3
37.9
..

..
2.6
2.2
..
0.7

..
6.7
5.4
..
2.9

..
45.1
52.3
..
53.2

..
29.7
36.3
..
37.2

..
11.5
16.5
..
49.9

..
6.8
9.7
..
18.4

..
37.9
46.1
..
49.8

2.6
..
2.3
0.6
3.3

6.1
..
6.1
2.2
7.6

47.5
..
46.7
60.2
44.4

31.7
..
30.7
43.6
29.8

12.3
..
13.3
70.4
9.1

7.7
..
7.7
27.3
5.9

40.8
..
40.0
56.8
36.4

3.1
2.3
..
1.8
..

7.4
6.0
..
4.7
..

44.5
47.3
..
50.0
..

29.5
31.5
..
33.1
..

9.7
13.4
..
18.4
..

6.0
7.9
..
10.7
..

36.5
39.8
..
44.7
..

3.5
2.3
2.1
..
0.9

8.0
6.4
5.1
..
3.3

42.8
43.6
53.3
..
58.0

28.0
27.9
37.9
..
41.6

7.9
12.0
17.7
..
44.9

5.3
6.8
10.5
..
17.3

34.4
36.9
47.4
..
43.7

Medium human development
56
57
58
59
60

Bulgaria
Russian Federation
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
Malaysia
Macedonia, TFYR

2001
2000
..
1997
1998

c

61
62
63
64
65

Panama
Belarus
Tonga
Mauritius
Albania

2000
2000
..
..
2002

c

66
67
68
69
70

Bosnia and Herzegovina
Suriname
Venezuela
Romania
Ukraine

2001
..
1998
2000
1999

e

71
72
73
74
75

Saint Lucia
Brazil
Colombia
Oman
Samoa (Western)

1995
1998
1999
..
..

c

76
77
78
79
80

Thailand
Saudi Arabia
Kazakhstan
Jamaica
Lebanon

2000
..
2001
2000
..

e

81
82
83
84
85

Fiji
Armenia
Philippines
Maldives
Peru

..
1998
2000
..
2000

86
87
88
89
90

Turkmenistan
St. Vincent & the Grenadines
Turkey
Paraguay
Jordan

1998
..
2000
1999
1997

e

91
92
93
94
95

Azerbaijan
Tunisia
Grenada
China
Dominica

2001
2000
..
2001
..

e

Sri Lanka
Georgia
Dominican Republic
Belize
Ecuador

1995
2001
1998
..
1998

e

96
97
98
99
100

e

c
e

e

e

c
e
e

c
c

e
e

e
e

c

e
c
e

e

e

e
c

e

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

189

14 Inequality in
income or
consumption

Survey
year

HDI rank

e

101
102
103
104
105

Iran, Islamic Rep. of
Occupied Palestinian Territories
El Salvador
Guyana
Cape Verde

1998
..
2000
1999
..

106
107
108
109
110

Syrian Arab Republic
Uzbekistan
Algeria
Equatorial Guinea
Kyrgyzstan

..
2000
1995
..
2001

111
112
113
114
115

Indonesia
Viet Nam
Moldova, Rep. of
Bolivia
Honduras

2002
1998
2001
1999
1999

e

116
117
118
119
120

Tajikistan
Mongolia
Nicaragua
South Africa
Egypt

1998
1998
2001
1995
1999

e

121
122
123
124
125

Guatemala
Gabon
São Tomé and Principe
Solomon Islands
Morocco

2000
..
..
..
1998/99

c

126
127
128
129
130

Namibia
India
Botswana
Vanuatu
Cambodia

1993
1999/2000
1993
..
1997

c

131
132
133
134
135

Ghana
Myanmar
Papua New Guinea
Bhutan
Lao People’s Dem. Rep.

1999
..
1996
..
1997

e

136
137
138
139
140
141

Comoros
Swaziland
Bangladesh
Sudan
Nepal
Cameroon

..
1994
2000
..
1995/96
2001

c
e

e
e

e

e
e
e
c

e
c
e
e

e

e
e

e

e

e

c
e

e
e

MDG
Share of income or consumption
(%)
Poorest 10% Poorest 20% Richest 20% Richest 10%

Richest
10% to
poorest
10% a

Inequality measures
Richest
20% to
poorest
20% a
Gini index b

2.0
..
0.9
1.3
..

5.1
..
2.9
4.5
..

49.9
..
57.1
49.7
..

33.7
..
40.6
33.8
..

17.2
..
47.4
25.9
..

9.7
..
19.8
11.1
..

43.0
..
53.2
43.2
..

..
3.6
2.8
..
3.9

..
9.2
7.0
..
9.1

..
36.3
42.6
..
38.3

..
22.0
26.8
..
23.3

..
6.1
9.6
..
6.0

..
4.0
6.1
..
4.2

..
26.8
35.3
..
29.0

3.6
3.6
2.8
1.3
0.9

8.4
8.0
7.1
4.0
2.7

43.3
44.5
43.7
49.1
58.9

28.5
29.9
28.4
32.0
42.2

7.8
8.4
10.2
24.6
49.1

5.2
5.6
6.2
12.3
21.5

34.3
36.1
36.2
44.7
55.0

3.2
2.1
1.2
0.7
3.7

8.0
5.6
3.6
2.0
8.6

40.0
51.2
59.7
66.5
43.6

25.2
37.0
45.0
46.9
29.5

8.0
17.8
36.1
65.1
8.0

5.0
9.1
16.8
33.6
5.1

34.7
44.0
55.1
59.3
34.4

0.9
..
..
..
2.6

2.6
..
..
..
6.5

64.1
..
..
..
46.6

48.3
..
..
..
30.9

55.1
..
..
..
11.7

24.4
..
..
..
7.2

48.3
..
..
..
39.5

0.5
3.9
0.7
..
2.9

1.4
8.9
2.2
..
6.9

78.7
41.6
70.3
..
47.6

64.5
27.4
56.6
..
33.8

128.8
7.0
77.6
..
11.6

56.1
4.7
31.5
..
6.9

70.7
32.5
63.0
..
40.4

2.1
..
1.7
..
3.2

5.6
..
4.5
..
7.6

46.6
..
56.5
..
45.0

30.0
..
40.5
..
30.6

14.1
..
23.8
..
9.7

8.4
..
12.6
..
6.0

30.0
..
50.9
..
37.0

..
1.0
3.9
..
3.2
2.3

..
2.7
9.0
..
7.6
5.6

..
64.4
41.3
..
44.8
50.9

..
50.2
26.7
..
29.8
35.4

..
49.7
6.8
..
9.3
15.7

..
23.8
4.6
..
5.9
9.1

..
60.9
31.8
..
36.7
44.6

3.7
..
..
0.5
2.3

8.8
..
..
1.5
5.9

42.3
..
..
66.5
49.7

28.3
..
..
48.3
34.9

7.6
..
..
105.0
14.9

4.8
..
..
44.2
8.4

33.0
..
..
63.2
43.0

1.8
2.3
3.0
1.9
1.6

4.6
5.6
7.4
4.9
4.4

55.7
51.2
41.2
53.5
55.7

40.3
36.1
25.9
36.6
40.8

22.0
15.6
8.6
19.2
24.9

12.0
9.1
5.6
11.0
12.8

56.8
44.5
33.4
47.5
50.6

Low human development
142
143
144
145
146

Pakistan
Togo
Congo
Lesotho
Uganda

1998/99
..
..
1995
1999

e

147
148
149
150
151

Zimbabwe
Kenya
Yemen
Madagascar
Nigeria

1995
1997
1998
2001
1996/97

e

190

e
e

e
e
e
e

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

14 Inequality in
income or
consumption

Survey
year

HDI rank
152
153
154
155
156

Mauritania
Haiti
Djibouti
Gambia
Eritrea

2000
..
..
1998
..

e

157
158
159
160
161

Senegal
Timor-Leste
Rwanda
Guinea
Benin

1995
..
1983/85
1994
..

e

162
163
164
165
166

Tanzania, U. Rep. of
Côte d’Ivoire
Zambia
Malawi
Angola

1993
1998
1998
1997
..

e

167
168
169
170
171

Chad
Congo, Dem. Rep. of the
Central African Republic
Ethiopia
Mozambique

172
173
174
175
176
177

Guinea-Bissau
Burundi
Mali
Burkina Faso
Niger
Sierra Leone

..
..
1993
2000
1996/97
1993
1998
1994
1998
1995
1989

e

e
e

e
e
e

e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e

MDG
Share of income or consumption
(%)
Poorest 10% Poorest 20% Richest 20% Richest 10%

Richest
10% to
poorest
10% a

Inequality measures
Richest
20% to
poorest
20% a
Gini index b

2.5
..
..
1.5
..

6.2
..
..
4.0
..

45.7
..
..
55.2
..

29.5
..
..
38.0
..

12.0
..
..
25.4
..

7.4
..
..
13.8
..

39.0
..
..
38.0
..

2.6
..
4.2
2.6
..

6.4
..
9.7
6.4
..

48.2
..
39.1
47.2
..

33.5
..
24.2
32.0
..

12.8
..
5.8
12.3
..

7.5
..
4.0
7.3
..

41.3
..
28.9
40.3
..

2.8
2.2
1.1
1.9
..

6.8
5.5
3.3
4.9
..

45.5
51.1
56.6
56.1
..

30.1
35.9
41.0
42.2
..

10.8
16.2
36.6
22.7
..

6.7
9.2
17.3
11.6
..

38.2
45.2
52.6
50.3
..

..
..
0.7
3.9
2.5

..
..
2.0
9.1
6.5

..
..
65.0
39.4
46.5

..
..
47.7
25.5
31.7

..
..
69.2
6.6
12.5

..
..
32.7
4.3
7.2

..
..
61.3
30.0
39.6

2.1
1.7
1.8
1.8
0.8
0.5

5.2
5.1
4.6
4.5
2.6
1.1

53.4
48.0
56.2
60.7
53.3
63.4

39.3
32.8
40.4
46.3
35.4
43.6

19.0
19.3
23.1
26.2
46.0
87.2

10.3
9.5
12.2
13.6
20.7
57.6

47.0
33.3
50.5
48.2
50.5
62.9

Note: Because the underlying household surveys differ in method and in type of data collected, the distribution data are not strictly comparable across countries.
a. Data show the ratio of the income or consumption share of the richest group to that of the poorest. Because of rounding, results may differ from ratios calculated using the income or consumption shares in columns 2-5.
b. The Gini index measures inequality over the entire distribution of income or consumption. A value of 0 represents perfect equality, and a value of 100 perfect inequality. c. Survey based on income. d. Data refer to urban
areas only. e. Survey based on consumption.
Source: Columns 1-5 and 8: World Bank 2004a; columns 6 and 7: calculated on the basis of income or consumption data from World Bank 2004a.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

191

. . . TO HAVE ACCESS TO THE RESOURCES NEEDED FOR A DECENT STANDARD OF LIVING . . .

15 Structure of
trade

Imports of
goods and services
(% of GDP)
1990
2002

HDI rank

Exports of
goods and services
(% of GDP)
1990
2002

High-technology
Manufactured exports
exports
(% of merchandise
(% of manufactured Terms of trade
exports)
exports)
(1980 = 100) a
1990
2002
1990
2002
2001

Primary exports
(% of merchandise
exports)
1990
2002

High human development
1
2
3
4
5

Norway
Sweden
Australia
Canada
Netherlands

34
28
17
26
51

27
37
22
39
56

40
29
17
26
54

41
43
20
44
62

6
7
8
9
10

Belgium
Iceland
United States
Japan
Ireland

69
33
11
9
52

78
38
14
10
83

71
34
10
10
57

82
40
10
11
98

11
12
13
14
15

Switzerland
United Kingdom
Finland
Austria
Luxembourg

36
27
24
38
100

38
28
30
51
127

36
24
23
40
104

16
17
18
19
20

France
Denmark
New Zealand
Germany
Spain

22
31
27
25
20

25
39
32
32
30

21
22
23
24
25

Italy
Israel
Hong Kong, China (SAR)
Greece
Singapore

20
45
124
28
..

26
46
142
27
..

26
27
28
29
30

Portugal
Slovenia
Korea, Rep. of
Barbados
Cyprus

39
..
30
52
57

41
56
39
55
..

31
32
33
34
35

Malta
Czech Republic
Brunei Darussalam
Argentina
Seychelles

99
43
..
5
67

36
37
38
39
40

Estonia
Poland
Hungary
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Bahrain

41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50

192

67
16
73
36
37

74
13
65
30
26

..
91
22
3
26

17
85
14
3
8

44
26
38
52
145

6
19
17
12
..

7
16
14
13
12

21
36
27
25
16

27
45
33
35
28

23
35
75
10
24

16
29
68
9
21

20
35
133
18
..

27
37
151
21
..

11
13
4
46
27

10
7
5
47
11

33
..
29
49
52

31
58
40
52
..

19
..
6
55
45

13
10
8
47
45

89
67
..
13
81

85
45
..
10
62

88
65
..
28
78

4
..
100
71
..

4
10
..
66
..

..
22
29
83
95

94
31
67
71
65

..
29
31
52
116

84
28
64
46
81

..
36
35
..
91

28
18
11
27
87

Lithuania
Slovakia
Chile
Kuwait
Costa Rica

61
36
31
58
41

60
80
32
40
47

52
27
35
45
35

54
73
36
48
42

..
..
87
94
66

41
15
80
..
37

Uruguay
Qatar
Croatia
United Arab Emirates
Latvia

18
..
..
40
49

20
..
55
..
56

24
..
..
65
48

22
..
46
..
45

61
84
..
54
..

63
89
27
..
41

b

b

b

b

b

b

12
13
8
14
16

22
16
16
14
28

..
10
33
24
41

11
6
32
24
41

12
24
8
8
..

21
31
24
15
19

81
66
28
86
78

16
15
4
11
6

21
22
10
17
7

..
..
117
106
123

88
87
95
54
72

88
93
95
52
85

8
10
..
2
40

9
20
17
10
60

125
122
100
76
75

b

80
..
94
43
55

86
90
92
50
55

4
..
18
..
6

7
5
32
16
3

b

96
..
(.)
29
(.)

96
89
12
31
5

45
..
..
..
..

62
14
4
7
..

..
59
63
..
9

72
82
86
73
13

..
..
..
..
..

12
3
25
(.)
(.)

..
..
11
6
27

58
85
18
..
63

..
..
5
3
..

5
3
3
..
37

39
16
..
46
..

37
10
73
4
59

..
..
..
..
..

3
0
12
2
4

b

b

b

b

b

b
b
b

b

33
83
24
59
59

22
81
29
63
74

..
8
74
96
70

79
14
81
93
88

94
79
83
88
..

93
79
85
82
86

77
60
23
89
75

b

b

b

b

b
b
b

b

b

123
103
86
93
105
b

b

b

..
..
114
126
96
..
100
107
..
..

..
..
84
..
..
b

b
b
b

b

b

..
..
..
81
..
..
285
85
..
..
..
..
39
..
122
102
..
..
..
..

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

15 Structure of
trade

Imports of
goods and services
(% of GDP)
1990
2002

HDI rank
51
52
53
54
55

Bahamas
Cuba
Mexico
Trinidad and Tobago
Antigua and Barbuda

..
..
20
29
87

..
18
29
43
68

c

Exports of
goods and services
(% of GDP)
1990
2002
..
..
19
45
89

..
16
27
47
60

c

High-technology
Manufactured exports
exports
(% of merchandise
(% of manufactured Terms of trade
exports)
exports)
(1980 = 100) a
1990
2002
1990
2002
2001

Primary exports
(% of merchandise
exports)
1990
2002
..
..
56
73
..

57
90
16
54
..

c

c

b

b

..
..
43
27
..

37
10
84
46
..

b

..
..
5
54
..

61
22
..
79
70

b

21
..
21
66
..

12
64
4
73
86

..
74
10
73
..

..
78
13
81
67

28
52
25
5
4

24
54
38
15
..

63
7
..
69
..

74
10
19
64
69

36
..
38
..
18

44
61
50
38
21

..
..
68
10
51

7
9
84
15
68

..
69
20
72
32

6
82
24
90
54

54
..
..
15
2

74
35
34
1
10

b

b

..
..
8
..
..

1
29
21
3
..

b

..
..
0
38
..

3
13
..
58
1

b

..
..
0
1
..

1
4
0
2
1

..
..
4
2
..

..
(.)
3
3
5

..
7
..
2
0

8
19
7
2
..

21
..
..
..
..

31
(.)
10
(.)
3

12
..
..
..
..

1
2
65
0
2

..
..
1
(.)
1

5
0
2
3
3

..
2
..
..
..

8
4
8
23
8

1
..
..
..
(.)

1
38
1
0
7

b

b

..
..
33
..
..

Medium human development
56
57
58
59
60

Bulgaria
Russian Federation
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
Malaysia
Macedonia, TFYR

37
18
31
72
36

60
24
36
97
57

33
18
40
75
26

53
35
48
114
38

..
..
95
46
..

37
69
..
19
30

61
62
63
64
65

Panama
Belarus
Tonga
Mauritius
Albania

34
44
65
71
23

29
74
58
57
43

38
46
34
64
15

28
70
13
61
19

78
..
..
34
..

88
33
..
27
14

66
67
68
69
70

Bosnia and Herzegovina
Suriname
Venezuela
Romania
Ukraine

..
44
20
26
29

59
45
17
41
52

..
42
39
17
28

26
21
29
35
56

..
26
90
26
..

..
22
89
18
32

71
72
73
74
75

Saint Lucia
Brazil
Colombia
Oman
Samoa (Western)

84
7
15
31
..

59
14
21
35
82

73
8
21
53
..

55
16
20
57
33

..
47
74
94
..

76
44
62
84
..

76
77
78
79
80

Thailand
Saudi Arabia
Kazakhstan
Jamaica
Lebanon

42
32
..
52
100

57
23
46
60
41

34
41
..
48
18

65
41
47
39
14

36
93
..
31
..

22
91
81
27
31

81
82
83
84
85

Fiji
Armenia
Philippines
Maldives
Peru

67
46
33
64
14

65
47
49
67
17

b

62
35
28
24
16

71
30
49
88
16

b

63
..
31
..
82

55
39
8
..
79

86
87
88
89
90

Turkmenistan
St. Vincent & the Grenadines
Turkey
Paraguay
Jordan

..
77
18
39
93

47
59
30
43
67

b

..
66
13
33
62

47
48
30
31
46

b

..
..
32
..
..

92
91
15
84
32

91
92
93
94
95

Azerbaijan
Tunisia
Grenada
China
Dominica

39
51
63
14
81

51
49
57
26
63

44
44
42
18
55

44
45
47
29
55

..
31
..
27
..

93
19
..
10
..

Sri Lanka
Georgia
Dominican Republic
Belize
Ecuador

38
46
44
62
32

43
39
35
74
31

29
40
34
64
33

36
27
26
55
24

42
..
..
..
98

25
65
..
..
90

96
97
98
99
100

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

b

c

b

b

c

b

b
b

c
b

b

b
b
b
c
b

c

b

b

b

b

c

c

b

b

b

b

c

b
b

b

c

c

b

b

b

b

..
..
..
..
..
86
..
..
109
..
..
..
55
..
..
..
136
83
..
..
60
..
..
..
..
..
..
96
..
39

c

..
..
89
147
113
..
81
..
..
..

b
b

..
..
58
..
43

193

15 Structure of
trade

Imports of
goods and services
(% of GDP)
1990
2002

HDI rank

Exports of
goods and services
(% of GDP)
1990
2002

High-technology
Manufactured exports
exports
(% of merchandise
(% of manufactured Terms of trade
exports)
exports)
(1980 = 100) a
1990
2002
1990
2002
2001

Primary exports
(% of merchandise
exports)
1990
2002

101
102
103
104
105

Iran, Islamic Rep. of
Occupied Palestinian Territories
El Salvador
Guyana
Cape Verde

24
..
31
80
44

29
47
41
106
68

22
..
19
63
13

31
12
27
93
31

..
..
62
..
..

91
..
41
78
..

106
107
108
109
110

Syrian Arab Republic
Uzbekistan
Algeria
Equatorial Guinea
Kyrgyzstan

28
48
25
70
50

28
34
26
..
43

28
29
23
32
29

37
38
36
..
39

64
..
97
..
..

90
..
98
..
67

c

111
112
113
114
115

Indonesia
Viet Nam
Moldova, Rep. of
Bolivia
Honduras

24
45
51
24
40

29
60
79
27
53

25
36
49
23
36

35
56
54
22
37

65
..
..
95
91

44
..
69
78
74

b

116
117
118
119
120

Tajikistan
Mongolia
Nicaragua
South Africa
Egypt

35
53
46
19
33

72
81
49
31
23

28
24
25
24
20

58
67
23
34
16

..
..
92
..
57

87
64
80
37
47

c

121
122
123
124
125

Guatemala
Gabon
São Tomé and Principe
Solomon Islands
Morocco

25
31
72
73
32

28
39
95
..
37

21
46
14
47
26

16
59
44
..
32

76
..
..
..
48

65
98
..
..
35

126
127
128
129
130

Namibia
India
Botswana
Vanuatu
Cambodia

67
9
50
77
13

49
16
37
..
67

52
7
55
49
6

48
15
51
..
59

..
28
..
..
..

47
22
9
86
..

b

131
132
133
134
135

Ghana
Myanmar
Papua New Guinea
Bhutan
Lao People’s Dem. Rep.

26
5
49
32
25

55
..
..
39
..

17
3
41
28
11

43
..
..
22
..

..
..
89
..
..

85
..
98
..
..

c

136
137
138
139
140
141

Comoros
Swaziland
Bangladesh
Sudan
Nepal
Cameroon

35
74
14
..
22
17

31
100
19
13
29
28

14
75
6
..
11
20

15
91
14
15
16
27

..
..
..
..
..
91

..
53
8
97
..
93

23
45
46
109
19

19
50
54
107
27

16
33
54
16
7

19
33
81
51
12

21
89
..
..
..

14
50
..
..
92

23
31
20
28
29

22
30
39
23
44

23
26
14
17
43

24
27
38
16
38

68
71
..
85
..

62
76
..
..
100

c

b

c

b

b
b
c

c

b
b

..
..
38
..
..

9
..
58
22
96

..
..
..
..
..

3
..
6
7
1

36
..
3
..
..

7
..
2
..
33

..
..
..
..
..

1
..
4
..
6

35
..
..
5
9

54
..
31
17
26

1
..
..
..
..

16
..
4
7
2

..
..
8
..
42

13
36
19
63
35

..
..
..
..
..

42
(.)
5
5
1

24
..
..
..
52

35
2
..
..
66

..
..
..
..
..

7
7
..
..
11

..
71
..
13
..

52
75
91
8
..

b

..
2
..
20
..

1
5
(.)
1
..

b

..
..
10
..
..

16
..
2
..
..

b

..
..
..
..
..

3
..
19
..
..

b

..
..
77
..
83
9

8
76
92
3
67
7

c

..
..
(.)
..
..
3

1
1
(.)
7
(.)
1

c

79
9
..
..
..

85
43
..
..
8

(.)
..
..
..
..

1
1
..
..
12

77
89
84
76
..

31
29
..
14
..

38
24
..
..
(.)

2
4
..
8
..

3
10
..
..
(.)

118
91
..
140
48

b

c

c

c

b
c

c

b

c

b

c

..
..
103
..
100
..
..
60
..
..
..
..
..
53
87

c

c

b
c

c

b

c

..
..
56
83
46
73
46
..
..
114
..
136
137
..
..
53
..
..
..
..
91
100
68
..
..
102

Low human development
142
143
144
145
146

Pakistan
Togo
Congo
Lesotho
Uganda

147
148
149
150
151

Zimbabwe
Kenya
Yemen
Madagascar
Nigeria

194

b

c

c

c

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

15 Structure of
trade

Imports of
goods and services
(% of GDP)
1990
2002

HDI rank
152
153
154
155
156

Mauritania
Haiti
Djibouti
Gambia
Eritrea

61
20
..
72
..

68
36
63
72
85

157
158
159
160
161

Senegal
Timor-Leste
Rwanda
Guinea
Benin

30
..
14
31
26

41
..
25
30
26

c

Exports of
goods and services
(% of GDP)
1990
2002
46
18
..
60
..

39
13
45
54
29

25
..
6
31
14

31
..
8
24
14

c

High-technology
Manufactured exports
exports
(% of merchandise
(% of manufactured Terms of trade
exports)
exports)
(1980 = 100) a
1990
2002
1990
2002
2001

Primary exports
(% of merchandise
exports)
1990
2002
..
15
44
..
..

..
..
..
82
..

77
..
..
..
..

49
..
98
72
94

c

b
b
b
b

..
85
8
..
..

..
..
..
17
..

23
..
..
..
..

51
..
3
28
6

c

b
b
b

..
14
0
..
..

..
..
..
3
..

..
..
..
..
..

4
..
1
(.)
(.)

..
..
..
(.)
0

2
3
2
3
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
3

..
..
..
..
..
..

..
2
..
7
8
..

..
..
..
..
7
..
..
..
18
18

20
..
2
28
16
4
4
11
22
23

18
..
..

22
18
1

c

b
b
b

135
45
..
55
..
91
..
138
..
101

..
..
..
5
(.)

17
21
14
10
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
14
8

..
..
2
..
..
..

..
1
..
19
3
..

..
..
..
..
40
..
..
..
16
16

61
..
20
75
34
71
..
..
78
79

73
..
17
86
48
56
35
55
81
81

20
..
..

16
..
..

78
50
..

82
57
29

22
32
25

19
..
..

15
..
..

79
48
49

82
60
58

18
..
..

23
19
9

..
..
..

24

..

..

74

78

18

21

..

162
163
164
165
166

Tanzania, U. Rep. of
Côte d’Ivoire
Zambia
Malawi
Angola

37
27
37
33
21

24
30
42
43
70

13
32
36
24
39

17
48
29
25
77

..
..
..
95
100

83
85
86
90
..

167
168
169
170
171

Chad
Congo, Dem. Rep. of the
Central African Republic
Ethiopia
Mozambique

28
29
28
12
36

65
21
17
34
38

13
30
15
8
8

12
18
12
16
24

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
86
91

172
173
174
175
176
177

Guinea-Bissau
Burundi
Mali
Burkina Faso
Niger
Sierra Leone

37
28
34
24
22
24

77
19
41
22
25
40

10
8
17
11
15
22

45
7
32
9
16
18

..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
81
95
..

Developing countries
Least developed countries
Arab States
East Asia and the Pacific
Latin America and the Caribbean
South Asia
Sub-Saharan Africa
Central & Eastern Europe & CIS
OECD
High-income OECD

23
23
38
33
12
14
26
25
18
18

30
34
30
45
19
20
35
40
21
21

24
14
38
34
14
11
27
25
18
18

33
23
36
49
21
19
34
42
21
21

..
..
..
..
65
..
..
..
20
19

High human development
Medium human development
Low human development

19
19
27

22
27
30

19
20
23

22
30
26

High income
Middle income
Low income

19
19
19

22
28
25

19
20
17

World

19

23

19

c

b

b

b
b

b

b

b

b
b

b

b

c

c

b

b

b

b
b

c

c

..
90
48
62
..
94
..
40
..
50
57
31
90
166
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

a. The ratio of the export price index to the import price index measured relative to the base year 1980. A value of more than 100 means that the price of exports has risen relative to the price of imports. b. Data refer to
2001. c. Data refer to 2000.
Source: Columns 1-10: World Bank 2004f, based on data from United Nations Conference on Trade and Development and the International Monetary Fund; aggregates calculated for the Human Development Report
Office by the World Bank; column 11: calculated on the basis of data on terms of trade from World Bank 2004f.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

195

16 Rich country
responsibilities:
aid

. . . TO HAVE ACCESS TO THE RESOURCES NEEDED FOR A DECENT STANDARD OF LIVING . . .

Net official development assistance
(ODA) disbursed
Total a
(US$
MDG
millions)
As % of GNI
2002
1990 d
2002

HDI rank

ODA per capita
of donor country
(2001 US$)
1990
2002

MDG
ODA to least
developed countries b
(% of total)
1990
2002

MDG
ODA to basic
social services c
(% of total)
1995/96
2001/02

MDG
Untied
bilateral ODA
(% of total)
1990
2002

1
2
3
4
5

Norway
Sweden
Australia
Canada
Netherlands

1,517
1,848
916
2,011
3,068

1.17
0.91
0.34
0.44
0.92

0.89
0.83
0.26
0.28
0.81

283
170
45
80
164

333
207
47
64
190

44
39
18
30
33

37
32
19
17
35

10.7
14.2
5.9
8.9
11.7

15.1
11.8
17.7
22.4
26.7

61
87
33
47
56

99
79
57
61
89

6
8
9
10
11

Belgium
United States
Japan
Ireland
Switzerland

996
13,140
9,731
360
863

0.46
0.21
0.31
0.16
0.32

0.43
0.13
0.23
0.40
0.32

83
58
87
17
109

97
46
76
93
118

41
19
19
37
43

33
23
20
53
27

9.2
19.0
2.0
0.5
6.5

20.4
27.0
4.8
30.8
19.8

..
..
89
..
78

..
..
83
100
95

12
13
14
15
16

United Kingdom
Finland
Austria
Luxembourg
France

4,581
434
488
139
5,125

0.27
0.65
0.11
0.21
0.60

0.31
0.35
0.26
0.77
0.38

52
122
20
68
111

78
83
61
316
86

32
38
36
39
32

23
33
33
40
30

24.4
8.9
2.6
..
..

29.9
14.3
14.7
..
..

..
31
32
..
64

100
82
69
..
92

17
18
19
20
21

Denmark
New Zealand
Germany
Spain
Italy

1,540
110
4,980
1,559
2,157

0.94
0.23
0.42
0.20
0.31

0.96
0.22
0.27
0.26
0.20

213
24
90
21
50

286
28
60
38
37

39
19
28
20
41

33
25
25
15
45

13.1
1.7
8.8
8.3
7.3

7.8
8.3
10.3
11.5
10.7

..
100
62
..
22

82
76
87
60
..

253
293

..
0.24

0.21
0.27

..
17

23
28

..
70

13
37

19.3
4.2

3.9
3.1

..
..

14
33

58,274 T

0.33

0.23

72

65

28

26

8.1

17.3

68

85

24 Greece
26 Portugal
DAC

Note: DAC is the Development Assistance Committee of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD).
a. Some non-DAC countries and areas also provide ODA. According to OECD 2004e, net ODA disbursed in 2002 by the Czech Republic, Estonia, Iceland, Israel, the Republic of Korea, Kuwait, Poland, Saudi Arabia, Slovakia,
Turkey and the United Arab Emirates and other small donors, including Taiwan (province of China), Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, totalled $3,201 million. China also provides aid but does not disclose the amount. b. Includes
imputed multilateral flows that make allowance for contributions through multilateral organizations. These are calculated using the geographic distribution of disbursements for the year specified. c. Data refer to the average for the years specified, and refer to the percentage of sector-allocable ODA. d. Data for individual countries (but not the DAC average) include forgiveness of non-ODA claims.
Source: Columns 1-7: OECD 2004b, aggregates calculated for the Human Development Report Office by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD); columns 8-11: UN 2004e, aggregates calculated for the Human Development Report Office by the OECD.

196

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

17 Rich country
responsibilities:
debt relief and
trade
Debt relief
Bilateral pledges
Gross
to the HIPC
bilateral debt
trust fund a
forgiveness
(US$ millions)
(US$ millions)
2003
1990-2002

HDI rank

Average tariff
barriers and
non-tariff
equivalents b
2000

Trade
Goods imports
From developing countries
From least developed countries
Share of
Share of
Total
total imports
Total
total imports
(US$ millions)
(%)
(US$ millions)
(%)
2002
2002
2002
2002

1
2
3
4
5

Norway
Sweden
Australia
Canada
Netherlands

127
109
14
165
242

237
121
77
1,471
1,915

32.0
10.0
13.4
10.2
9.6

9,357
11,374
38,187
52,879
60,389

18
14
41
21
30

233
247
183
805
1,164

0.4
0.3
0.2
0.3
0.6

6
8
9
10
11

Belgium
United States
Japan
Ireland
Switzerland

64
750
256
25
93

711
8,482
4,170
..
311

9.9
7.4
13.0
9.9
22.2

43,845
598,695
217,224
15,114
14,567

19
48
59
20
14

5,469
13,621
3,181
308
192

2.4
1.1
0.9
0.4
0.2

12
13
14
15
16

United Kingdom
Finland
Austria
Luxembourg
France

436
51
50
4
258

2,493
156
369
..
13,549

9.8
10.1
10.0
..
9.8

90,787
6,956
12,116
377
81,259

23
13
13
2
23

2,872
301
291
7
4,856

0.7
0.6
0.3
(.)
1.4

17
18
19
20
21

Denmark
New Zealand
Germany
Spain
Italy

80
2
333
165
217

377
..
6,034
1,092
1,775

9.8
12.1
9.9
9.7
9.7

9,329
8,810
98,168
63,993
71,139

14
33
19
31
24

360
45
4,095
2,965
2,547

0.5
0.2
0.8
1.4
0.9

17
24

..
470

9.8
9.8

15,222
10,058

28
18

218
649

0.4
1.2

24 Greece
26 Portugal

Note: This table presents data for members of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD).
a. The Debt Initiative for Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) is a mechanism for debt relief, jointly overseen by the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. Bilateral and multilateral creditors have provided
debt relief through this framework since 1996. Includes pledges through the European Union. b. This measure is an aggregate measure of trade barriers towards developing countries. It measures monetary barriers (tariffs)
as well as quotas and subsidies, in manufactures, textiles, agricultural products, and fuels, weighted by endogeneity-corrected import volume.
Source: Column 1: IMF and IDA 2004; column 2: Calculated on the basis of data on debt cancellation from OECD 2004f; column 3: Roodman 2004; columns 4-7: Calculations based on import data from UN 2004a.

OECD country support to domestic agriculture
(% of GDP)
MDG
1990

2002 a

Australia
Canada
Czech Republic
European Union b
Hungary
Iceland
Japan
Korea
Mexico
New Zealand
Norway
Poland
Slovak Republic
Switzerland
Turkey
United States

0.8
1.7
..
2.2
..
4.6
1.7
8.7
2.9
0.5
3.2
..
..
3.3
4.3
1.2

0.3
0.8
1.7
1.3
2.8
1.6
1.4
4.5
1.4
0.3
1.5
1.3
1.6
2.0
4.1
0.9

OECD

1.8

1.2

a. Provisional data. b. No data are available for individual member countries of the European Union.
The member countries in 2002 were Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece,
Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom. Austria, Finland and Sweden joined in 1995 and thus are not included in the data for 1990.
Source: OECD 2004a.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

197

18 Flows of aid,
private capital
and debt

. . . TO HAVE ACCESS TO THE RESOURCES NEEDED FOR A DECENT STANDARD OF LIVING . . .

Official development
assistance (ODA) received a
(net disbursements)

HDI rank

Total
(US$
millions)
2002

Per capita
(US$)
2002

As % of GDP
1990
2002

Net foreign direct
investment inflows b
(% of GDP)
1990
2002

Other
private flows b, c
(% of GDP)
1990
2002

MDG
Total debt service
As % of exports of
As % of GDP
goods and services
1990
2002
1990
2002

High human development
d

22
23
24
25
26

Israel
Hong Kong, China (SAR)
Greece
Singapore
Portugal

754.0
4.0
..
7.4
..

27
28
29
30
31

Slovenia
Korea, Rep. of
Barbados
Cyprus
Malta

170.9
-81.7
3.4
49.6
11.3

32
33
34
35
36

Czech Republic
Brunei Darussalam
Argentina
Seychelles
Estonia

392.7
-1.7
0.1
7.9
68.9

d

1,159.8
471.5
28.6
70.6
146.9

d

d

d

d

d

d

d

37
38
39
40
41

Poland
Hungary
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Bahrain
Lithuania

42
43
44
45
46

Slovakia
Chile
Kuwait
Costa Rica
Uruguay

189.4
-22.6
4.6
5.3
13.4

d

47
48
49
50
51

Qatar
Croatia
United Arab Emirates
Latvia
Bahamas

2.2
166.5
4.2
86.4
5.3

d

52
53
54
55

Cuba
Mexico
Trinidad and Tobago
Antigua and Barbuda

61.0
135.5
-7.2
14.0

d

d

d

d
d
d

119.6
0.6
..
1.8
..
86.1
-1.7
12.8
62.3
28.8

d
d

d

d

d

38.3
-5.0
(.)
97.8
51.5

d

30.0
47.5
683.8
99.5
42.4

d

35.1
-1.5
1.9
1.3
4.0

d

3.7
37.5
1.4
37.1
17.2

d

d

d

d

d

d

d
d
d

5.4
1.3
-5.6
192.1

2.6
0.1
..
(.)
..

0.7
(.)
..
(.)
..

..
(.)
0.2
0.7
0.2

0.8
(.)
0.1
0.5
0.3

(.)
..
0.1
9.8
..

d

2.2
0.2
5.1
3.2
..

d

(.)
0.3
(.)
4.0
0.6

d

d

d
d

d

d

d

0.6
..
(.)
1.1
1.1

d

0.6
0.7
8.0
0.9
1.1

d

0.8
(.)
(.)
(.)
0.1

d

(.)
..
(.)
..
0.1

(.)
0.7
(.)
1.0
..

..
0.1
0.4
1.2

..
(.)
-0.1
1.9

d

d

d

d

d

0.3
..
1.2
15.1
3.7

1.6
7.9
(.)
7.0
3.5

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
0.3
0.7
2.3
2.0

8.5
0.4
0.7
6.1
-11.0

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
1.3
5.5
..

13.4
..
0.8
8.8
4.4

..
..
-1.5
-1.7
..

1.5
..
-0.1
-0.3
20.0

..
..
4.4
5.9
..

6.5
..
5.7
2.1
12.0

..
..
37.0
9.0
..

9.5
..
18.3
2.6
13.7

0.2
0.9
30.7
..
..

2.2
1.3
22.7
..
5.2

(.)
-1.4
-0.3
..
..

0.5
-1.0
4.7
..
0.3

1.6
12.8
1.9
..
..

7.1
22.6
10.7
..
9.3

4.9
34.3
2.9
..
..

22.5
33.9
22.6
..
16.6

..
2.2
0.0
2.8
0.0

16.9
2.7
(.)
3.9
1.5

..
5.1
..
-2.5
-2.1

6.1
1.7
..
-0.4
-0.6

..
9.1
..
8.8
10.6

14.3
12.0
..
4.0
10.6

..
25.9
..
23.9
40.8

19.3
32.9
..
8.9
40.0

..
..
..
..
-0.6

..
4.4
..
4.5
5.2

..
..
..
..
..

..
11.7
..
1.3
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
13.5
..
7.7
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
25.9
..
15.8
..

..
1.0
2.2
..

..
2.3
7.6
..

..
2.7
-3.5
..

..
-0.7
0.0
..

..
4.3
8.9
..

..
6.8
2.8
..

..
20.7
19.3
..

..
23.2
5.7
..

..
..
..
5.3
..

3.9
0.9
..
3.4
2.0

..
..
..
-4.2
..

1.3
1.4
..
1.7
0.9

..
..
..
9.8
..

8.8
4.1
..
8.5
6.3

..
..
..
12.6
..

15.9
11.3
..
7.3
15.8

2.6
..
0.2
1.7
..

0.5
1.7
1.8
0.6
2.8

-0.1
..
-0.1
1.9
..

1.0
-0.1
0.0
-1.6
(.)

6.5
..
1.7
6.5
..

13.6
1.4
2.0
5.5
1.2

6.2
..
2.9
8.8
..

19.7
2.1
5.9
8.2
3.4

..
..
0.9
0.0
..

5.2
..
0.7
2.5
1.7

..
..
-1.2
(.)
..

0.1
..
-2.5
4.4
-3.1

..
..
10.3
(.)
..

2.8
..
7.9
6.8
7.8

..
..
23.3
0.3
..

6.9
..
25.6
18.6
13.7

e

Medium human development
56
57
58
59
60

Bulgaria
Russian Federation
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
Malaysia
Macedonia, TFYR

61
62
63
64
65

Panama
Belarus
Tonga
Mauritius
Albania

35.3
39.4
22.3
23.9
317.0

66
67
68
69
70

Bosnia and Herzegovina
Suriname
Venezuela
Romania
Ukraine

587.4
11.6
57.1
700.8
483.8

198

381.3
1,300.9
10.4
85.9
276.6

d
d
d

d

d
d

47.9
9.0
1.9
3.6
135.2
11.5
4.0
217.2
19.8
100.9
142.3
26.9
2.3
31.3
9.9

d
d
d

d

d
d

0.1
(.)
0.1
1.1
..

d
d

2.5
0.4
0.1
0.1
7.3

1.9
..
26.3
3.7
0.5

0.3
0.3
16.4
0.5
6.6

..
15.5
0.2
0.6
0.4

10.5
1.2
0.1
1.5
1.2

d
d

d
d

d

d
d

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

18 Flows of aid,
private capital
and debt

HDI rank

Official development
assistance (ODA) received a
(net disbursements)
Total
(US$
millions)
2002

Per capita
(US$)
2002

As % of GDP
1990
2002

Net foreign direct
investment inflows b
(% of GDP)
1990
2002

Other
private flows b, c
(% of GDP)
1990
2002

MDG
Total debt service
As % of exports of
As % of GDP
goods and services
1990
2002
1990
2002

71
72
73
74
75

Saint Lucia
Brazil
Colombia
Oman
Samoa (Western)

33.5
375.9
441.0
40.8
37.8

226.5
2.1
10.1
14.7
214.2

3.1
(.)
0.2
0.6
42.6

5.1
0.1
0.5
0.2
14.5

11.3
0.2
1.2
1.4
5.9

3.4
3.7
2.5
0.2
0.5

-0.2
-0.1
-0.4
-3.8
0.0

4.5
-1.5
-1.3
-5.8
0.0

1.6
1.8
9.7
7.0
4.9

4.0
11.4
8.6
8.6
3.0

2.1
22.2
40.9
12.3
5.8

7.2
68.9
40.2
14.2
10.8

76
77
78
79
80

Thailand
Saudi Arabia
Kazakhstan
Jamaica
Lebanon

295.5
26.9
188.3
24.3
455.8

4.8
1.1
12.2
9.2
126.8

0.9
(.)
..
5.9
8.9

0.2
(.)
0.8
0.3
2.6

2.9
..
..
3.0
0.2

0.7
..
10.5
6.1
1.5

2.3
..
..
-1.0
0.2

-2.3
..
7.5
0.7
26.3

6.2
..
..
14.4
3.5

15.6
..
16.7
10.7
12.7

16.9
..
..
26.9
3.3

23.1
..
34.4
18.4
51.0

81
82
83
84
85

Fiji
Armenia
Philippines
Maldives
Peru

34.1
293.5
559.7
27.5
491.3

41.0
95.5
7.1
88.9
18.4

3.8
..
2.9
9.8
1.5

1.8
12.4
0.7
4.4
0.9

6.9
..
1.2
2.6
0.2

4.1
4.7
1.4
1.9
4.2

-1.2
..
0.2
0.5
0.1

-0.3
-0.1
3.1
2.3
1.3

7.9
..
8.1
4.1
1.8

1.5
3.1
11.8
3.5
5.9

12.0
..
27.0
4.8
10.8

5.9
8.8
20.2
4.5
32.8

86
87
88
89
90

Turkmenistan
St. Vincent & the Grenadines
Turkey
Paraguay
Jordan

40.5
4.8
635.8
56.7
534.3

8.5
40.1
9.0
9.9
100.3

..
7.8
0.8
1.1
22.1

0.5
1.3
0.3
1.0
5.7

..
3.9
0.5
1.5
0.9

1.3
5.3
0.6
-0.4
0.6

..
0.0
0.8
-0.2
5.3

..
2.1
3.6
1.0
-0.9

..
2.2
4.9
6.2
15.6

..
3.7
15.0
5.9
6.3

..
2.9
29.4
12.4
20.4

..
7.6
46.8
10.5
8.7

91
92
93
94
95

Azerbaijan
Tunisia
Grenada
China
Dominica

349.4
475.0
9.5
1,475.8
29.9

42.1
48.8
117.5
1.1
381.7

..
3.2
6.3
0.6
11.9

5.7
2.3
2.3
0.1
12.1

..
0.6
5.8
1.0
7.8

22.9
3.8
9.9
3.9
5.8

..
-1.6
0.1
1.3
-0.1

-1.3
4.0
23.3
-0.2
0.7

..
11.6
1.5
2.0
3.5

3.1
6.8
6.2
2.4
4.5

..
24.5
3.1
11.7
5.6

6.5
13.5
13.6
8.2
7.9

96
97
98
99
100

Sri Lanka
Georgia
Dominican Republic
Belize
Ecuador

344.0
312.6
156.7
22.2
216.0

18.2
60.4
18.2
88.6
16.9

9.1
..
1.4
7.6
1.6

2.1
9.2
0.7
2.6
0.9

0.5
..
1.9
4.3
1.2

1.5
4.9
4.4
3.0
5.2

0.1
..
(.)
1.4
0.6

-0.2
-0.5
1.8
9.0
3.4

4.8
..
3.3
5.0
10.5

4.3
3.8
3.1
22.3
9.0

13.8
..
10.4
7.5
32.5

9.8
11.0
6.4
36.5
28.7

101
102
103
104
105

Iran, Islamic Rep. of
115.8
Occupied Palestinian Territories 1,616.5
El Salvador
233.5
Guyana
64.8
Cape Verde
92.2

1.7
470.9
36.4
84.9
203.1

0.1
..
7.2
42.6
31.8

0.1
47.6
1.6
9.0
15.0

-0.3
..
(.)
2.0
0.1

(.)
..
1.5
6.1
2.4

(.)
..
0.1
-4.1
(.)

0.7
..
8.5
-0.1
0.2

0.5
..
4.3
74.5
1.7

1.3
..
3.2
10.8
3.5

3.2
..
15.3
..
4.8

4.1
..
7.7
10.7
7.6

106
107
108
109
110

Syrian Arab Republic
Uzbekistan
Algeria
Equatorial Guinea
Kyrgyzstan

80.8
189.4
361.0
20.2
186.0

4.7
7.4
11.5
42.0
36.7

5.6
..
0.2
46.0
..

0.4
2.4
0.6
1.0
11.6

0.6
..
(.)
8.4
..

1.1
0.8
1.9
15.3
0.3

-0.1
..
-0.7
0.0
..

(.)
-1.0
-0.1
0.0
-3.7

9.7
..
14.2
3.9
..

1.2
9.2
7.5
0.2
10.8

21.8
..
63.4
12.1
..

3.0
24.3
..
..
25.3

111
112
113
114
115

Indonesia
Viet Nam
Moldova, Rep. of
Bolivia
Honduras

1,308.1
1,276.8
141.7
681.0
434.9

6.0
15.9
33.2
78.8
64.1

1.5
2.9
..
11.2
14.7

0.8
3.6
8.7
8.7
6.6

1.0
2.8
..
0.6
1.4

-0.9
4.0
6.8
8.7
2.2

1.6
0.0
..
-0.5
1.0

-3.2
-1.8
-2.1
-1.0
-0.6

8.7
2.7
..
7.9
12.8

9.8
3.4
14.1
6.1
6.0

33.3
..
..
38.6
35.3

24.8
6.0
19.9
27.7
12.3

116
117
118
119
120

Tajikistan
Mongolia
Nicaragua
South Africa
Egypt

168.4
208.5
517.5
656.8
1,286.1

27.2
81.5
97.0
14.7
18.2

..
..
32.9
..
12.6

13.9
18.6
12.9
0.6
1.4

..
..
0.0
..
1.7

0.7
7.0
4.3
0.7
0.7

..
..
2.0
..
-0.2

-1.6
(.)
0.8
(.)
-0.2

..
..
1.6
..
7.1

6.5
4.7
3.8
4.5
2.3

..
..
3.9
..
20.4

10.2
6.7
11.7
12.5
10.3

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

f
e

g, h

g, i

g, j
g, h

g, j

199

18 Flows of aid,
private capital
and debt

Official development
assistance (ODA) received a
(net disbursements)

MDG
Total debt service
As % of exports of
As % of GDP
goods and services
1990
2002
1990
2002

HDI rank
121
122
123
124
125

Guatemala
Gabon
São Tomé and Principe
Solomon Islands
Morocco

248.7
71.9
26.0
26.3
636.2

20.7
55.1
166.0
56.8
21.2

2.6
2.2
95.0
21.7
4.1

1.1
1.4
51.8
11.0
1.8

0.6
1.2
0.0
4.9
0.6

0.5
2.5
6.0
-2.8
1.2

-0.1
0.5
-0.2
-1.5
1.2

-0.2
0.3
0.0
-1.1
-1.1

2.8
3.0
4.9
5.5
6.9

1.8
8.3
12.1
2.4
10.2

12.6
6.4
34.0
11.9
21.5

7.5
11.7
31.8
6.9
23.9

126
127
128
129
130

Namibia
India
Botswana
Vanuatu
Cambodia

135.1
1,462.7
37.6
27.5
486.9

68.9
1.4
21.2
133.0
35.3

5.2
0.4
3.9
33.0
3.7

4.7
0.3
0.7
11.7
12.2

..
0.1
2.5
8.7
0.0

..
0.6
0.7
6.4
1.3

..
0.5
-0.5
-0.1
0.0

..
0.4
(.)
0.0
0.0

..
2.6
2.8
1.6
2.7

..
2.6
1.1
0.9
0.5

..
31.9
4.3
2.1
..

..
14.9
2.0
1.0
0.8

131
132
133
134
135

Ghana
Myanmar
Papua New Guinea
Bhutan
Lao People’s Dem. Rep.

652.8
120.5
203.3
73.5
278.3

31.9
2.5
36.4
33.5
50.3

9.6
..
12.8
16.5
17.3

10.6
..
7.2
12.4
16.6

0.3
..
4.8
0.6
0.7

0.8
..
1.8
0.1
1.5

-0.3
..
1.5
-0.9
0.0

-0.4
..
-3.4
0.0
0.0

6.2
..
17.2
1.8
1.1

3.4
..
9.9
1.1
2.7

36.8
18.4
37.2
5.5
8.7

8.0
2.9
12.7
4.6
9.0

g, h

136
137
138
139
140
141

Comoros
Swaziland
Bangladesh
Sudan
Nepal
Cameroon

32.5
24.7
912.8
350.9
365.5
631.9

43.5
23.1
6.3
10.7
14.9
40.2

17.3
6.1
7.0
6.2
11.7
4.0

12.7
2.1
1.9
2.6
6.6
7.0

0.2
3.4
(.)
0.0
0.0
-1.0

0.6
3.8
0.1
4.7
0.2
1.0

0.0
-0.5
0.2
0.0
-0.4
-0.1

0.0
0.0
0.2
0.0
(.)
-0.5

0.4
5.3
2.5
0.4
1.9
4.6

1.9
1.7
1.5
0.2
1.8
3.9

2.3
5.7
25.8
8.7
15.7
20.5

..
1.7
7.3
0.8
8.8
..

g, i

2,143.7
51.0
419.8
76.4
637.9

14.3
10.6
115.5
42.5
25.5

2.8
16.0
7.8
23.0
15.5

3.6
3.7
13.9
10.7
11.0

0.6
1.1
0.0
2.8
0.0

1.4
5.4
11.0
11.3
2.6

-0.2
0.3
-3.6
(.)
0.4

-0.8
0.0
0.0
-1.1
(.)

4.8
5.3
19.0
3.8
3.4

4.8
0.9
0.8
9.4
1.4

21.3
11.9
35.3
4.2
81.4

17.8
2.5
1.0
11.8
7.1

Per capita
(US$)
2002

As % of GDP
1990
2002

Net foreign direct
investment inflows b
(% of GDP)
1990
2002

Other
private flows b, c
(% of GDP)
1990
2002

Total
(US$
millions)
2002

g, h
e

f

f, g, i
f

f, g, i

g, i

g, h

Low human development
142
143
144
145
146

Pakistan
Togo
Congo
Lesotho
Uganda

147
148
149
150
151

Zimbabwe
Kenya
Yemen
Madagascar
Nigeria

200.6
393.1
583.7
372.6
313.8

15.6
12.5
30.2
22.0
2.6

3.9
13.9
8.4
12.9
0.9

2.4
3.2
5.8
8.5
0.7

-0.1
0.7
-2.7
0.7
2.1

0.3
0.4
1.1
0.2
2.9

1.1
0.8
3.3
-0.5
-0.4

-0.4
-0.1
0.0
0.0
-1.5

5.4
9.2
3.5
7.2
11.7

0.7
3.7
1.7
1.7
3.4

23.1
35.4
5.6
45.5
22.6

..
13.6
3.3
9.9
8.6

152
153
154
155
156

Mauritania
Haiti
Djibouti
Gambia
Eritrea

355.4
155.7
77.8
60.5
230.4

126.6
18.9
112.3
43.6
57.7

23.3
5.9
46.4
31.3
..

36.7
4.5
13.0
17.0
35.9

0.7
0.0
(.)
0.0
..

1.2
0.2
0.6
12.0
3.3

-0.1
0.0
-0.1
-2.4
..

0.4
0.0
0.0
-0.1
0.0

14.3
1.2
3.6
11.9
..

6.6
0.8
2.0
5.4
1.4

29.8
11.0
..
22.2
..

..
..
..
..
4.7

g, j

157
158
159
160
161

Senegal
Timor-Leste
Rwanda
Guinea
Benin

448.8
219.8
356.1
249.6
220.3

45.5
297.6
43.1
29.9
33.6

14.4
..
11.3
10.4
14.5

8.9
56.6
20.6
7.8
8.2

1.0
..
0.3
0.6
3.4

1.9
..
0.2
0.0
1.5

-0.2
..
-0.1
-0.7
(.)

(.)
..
0.0
(.)
0.0

5.7
..
0.8
6.0
2.1

4.3
..
1.3
4.2
2.3

20.0
..
14.2
20.0
8.2

12.6
..
14.9
13.6
9.6

g, h

162
163
164
165
166

Tanzania, U. Rep. of
Côte d’Ivoire
Zambia
Malawi
Angola

1,232.8
1,068.8
640.6
377.1
421.4

34.0
65.3
59.9
31.8
32.0

27.5
6.4
14.6
26.8
2.6

13.1
9.1
17.3
19.8
3.7

0.0
0.4
6.2
1.2
-3.3

2.6
2.0
5.3
0.3
11.7

0.1
0.1
-0.3
0.1
5.6

-0.3
-1.0
-0.3
0.0
1.0

4.2
11.7
6.2
7.1
3.2

1.5
7.1
8.3
1.9
7.7

32.9
35.4
14.9
29.3
8.1

8.9
14.1
27.1
7.6
10.0

g, j

200

g, i
g, i

g, j

g, i
g, i
g, h

g, h

g, h
g, h
g, j

g, i
g, h
g, h
g, i

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

18 Flows of aid,
private capital
and debt

HDI rank
167
168
169
170
171

Chad
Congo, Dem. Rep. of the
Central African Republic
Ethiopia
Mozambique

172
173
174
175
176
177

Guinea-Bissau
Burundi
Mali
Burkina Faso
Niger
Sierra Leone

Official development
assistance (ODA) received a
(net disbursements)
Total
(US$
millions)
2002

Per capita
(US$)
2002

As % of GDP
1990
2002

Net foreign direct
investment inflows b
(% of GDP)
1990
2002

Other
private flows b, c
(% of GDP)
1990
2002

MDG
Total debt service
As % of exports of
As % of GDP
goods and services
1990
2002
1990
2002

233.0
806.7
59.8
1,306.7
2,057.6

27.9
15.8
15.7
18.9
111.0

18.0
9.6
16.8
11.8
40.7

11.6
14.1
5.7
21.6
57.2

0.5
-0.2
(.)
0.1
0.4

45.0
0.6
0.4
1.2
11.3

(.)
-0.1
(.)
-0.7
1.0

(.)
0.0
0.0
-0.1
-0.7

0.7
3.7
2.0
2.7
3.2

1.5
16.2
0.1
1.8
2.1

4.4
..
13.2
39.0
26.2

..
..
..
9.7
6.1

g, h

59.4
172.1
472.1
472.7
298.5
353.4

41.0
26.1
37.4
37.4
25.9
74.2

52.7
23.3
19.9
10.6
16.0
9.4

29.2
23.9
14.0
15.1
13.7
45.1

0.8
0.1
0.2
(.)
1.6
5.0

0.5
0.0
3.0
0.3
0.4
0.6

(.)
-0.5
(.)
(.)
0.4
0.6

0.0
-0.3
0.0
0.0
-0.4
0.0

3.4
3.7
2.8
1.1
4.0
3.3

7.3
3.2
2.7
1.7
1.3
2.9

31.0
43.4
12.3
6.8
17.4
10.1

..
59.0
7.0
16.0
..
..

g, h

8.8
24.7
24.2
3.9
8.6
4.5
26.3
31.2
..
..

1.5
11.7
2.7
..
0.4
1.1
..
..
..
..

0.7
8.9
0.8
0.3
0.3
0.7
..
..
..
..

1.0
0.1
0.9
2.3
0.7
(.)
..
..
1.0
1.0

2.5
2.9
0.6
3.6
2.7
0.6
2.4
3.5
1.9
1.9

0.4
0.4
-0.1
0.6
0.5
0.3
0.2
(.)
..
..

-0.1
..
0.5
-0.3
-0.6
0.3
-0.3
1.5
..
..

3.5
2.7
4.0
3.0
4.0
2.6
3.8
0.5
..
..

4.8
2.3
2.3
3.4
8.2
2.5
4.1
7.3
..
..

19.9
16.2
14.9
17.9
23.7
19.5
20.4
13.5
..
..

17.8
7.7
6.7
12.1
30.8
11.9
10.6
17.0
..
..

Developing countries
Least developed countries
Arab States
East Asia and the Pacific
Latin America and the Caribbean
South Asia
Sub-Saharan Africa
Central & Eastern Europe & CIS
OECD
High-income OECD

55,150.0
17,282.3
7,015.6
7,724.0
5,063.1
6,851.4
17,854.0
7,140.0
..
..

T
T
T
T
T
T
T
T

High human development
Medium human development
Low human development

476.3 T
26,070.9 T
17,379.9 T

..
6.5
24.2

..
1.2
8.5

..
0.5
7.4

1.0
0.7
0.5

k

2.0
2.2
2.9

k

..
0.3
0.3

..
0.1
-0.5

..
2.9
6.2

..
5.5
4.0

..
18.5
21.6

..
16.7
11.1

High income
Middle income
Low income

88.0 T
18,288.2 T
29,622.2 T

..
7.4
11.8

..
0.9
3.5

..
0.3
2.5

1.0
0.9
0.4

k

1.9
2.7
1.2

k

..
0.3
0.5

..
0.3
-0.5

..
3.0
4.2

..
6.3
3.9

..
17.9
27.0

..
18.1
15.0

World

61,567.8 T

9.7

..

..

1.0

k

2.0

k

..

..

..

..

..

..

k
k

k
k

g, i
g, i
g, h
g, j

g, i
g, j
g, j
g, h
g, h

Note: This table presents data for countries included in Parts I and II of the Development Assistance Committee’s (DAC) list of aid recipients (OECD 2004e). The denominator conventionally used when comparing official
development assistance and total debt service to the size of the economy is GNI, not GDP (see the definitions of statistical terms). GDP is used here, however, to allow comparability throughout the table. With few exceptions the denominators produce similar results.
a. ODA receipts are total net ODA flows from DAC countries as well as Czech Republic, Iceland, Israel, the Republic of Korea, Kuwait, Poland, Saudi Arabia, Slovakia, Turkey and the United Arab Emirates and other small
donors, including Taiwan (province of China), Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. A negative value indicates that the repayment of ODA loans exceeds the amount of ODA received. Aggregates do not include net official aid.
See the definitions of statistical terms. b. A negative value indicates that the capital flowing out of the country exceeds that flowing in. c. Other private flows combine non-debt-creating portfolio equity investment flows,
portfolio debt flows and bank and trade-related lending. See the definitions of statistical terms. d. Data refer to net official aid. See the definitions of statistical terms. e. Data refer to 2000. f. Data refer to 2001. g. Country
included in the Debt Initiative for Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPCs). h. Decision point reached under the HIPC Initiative. i. Decision and completion points not yet reached under the HIPC Initiative. j. Completion
point reached under the HIPC Initiative. k. Data used to calculate the aggregate include countries not shown in table.
Source: Column 1: OECD 2004f; aggregates calculated for the Human Development Report Office by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD); column 2: calculated on the basis of data on
ODA from OECD 2004f; aggregates calculated for the Human Development Report Office by the OECD; columns 3 and 4: calculated on the basis of data on ODA from OECD 2004f and data on GDP from World Bank
2004f; columns 5, 6, 11 and 12: World Bank 2004f; aggregates calculated for the Human Development Report Office by the World Bank; columns 7 and 8: calculated on the basis of data on portfolio investment (bonds
and equity), bank and trade-related lending and GDP data from World Bank 2004f; columns 9 and 10: calculated on the basis of data on total debt service and GDP from World Bank 2004f.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

201

. . . TO HAVE ACCESS TO THE RESOURCES NEEDED FOR A DECENT STANDARD OF LIVING . . .

19 Priorities
in public
spending

Public expenditure
on education a
(% of GDP)
1990 e
1999-2001 f

HDI rank

Public expenditure
on health b
(% of GDP)
1990
2001

Military expenditure c
(% of GDP)
1990
2002

Total debt service d
(% of GDP)
1990
2002

High human development
1
2
3
4
5

Norway
Sweden
Australia
Canada
Netherlands

7.1
7.4
5.1
6.5
6.0

6.8
7.6
4.6
5.2
5.0

6.4
7.6
5.3
6.8
5.7

6.8
7.4
6.2
6.8
5.7

2.9
2.6
2.1
2.0
2.5

2.1
1.9
1.9
1.2
1.6

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

6
7
8
9
10

Belgium
Iceland
United States
Japan
Ireland

5.0
5.4
5.2
..
5.2

5.8
6.0
5.6
3.6
4.3

6.6
6.8
4.7
4.6
4.8

6.4
7.6
6.2
6.2
4.9

2.4
0.0
5.3
0.9
1.2

1.3
0.0
3.4
1.0
0.7

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

11
12
13
14
15

Switzerland
United Kingdom
Finland
Austria
Luxembourg

5.1
4.9
5.6
5.4
3.0

5.6
4.6
6.3
5.9
4.1

5.7
5.1
6.4
5.2
5.7

6.4
6.3
5.3
5.5
5.4

1.8
4.0
1.6
1.0
0.9

1.1
2.4
1.2
0.8
0.9

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

16
17
18
19
20

France
Denmark
New Zealand
Germany
Spain

5.4
..
6.2
..
4.4

5.7
8.3
6.6
4.6
4.4

6.7
7.0
5.8
5.9
5.2

7.3
7.0
6.4
8.1
5.4

3.5
2.0
1.9
2.8
1.8

2.5
1.6
1.1
1.5
1.2

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

21
22
23
24
25

Italy
Israel
Hong Kong, China (SAR)
Greece
Singapore

3.1
6.3
..
2.5
..

5.0
7.3
4.1
3.8
..

6.3
3.8
1.6
4.7
1.0

6.3
6.0
..
5.2
1.3

2.1
12.2
..
4.7
4.9

2.1
9.2
..
4.3
5.2

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

26
27
28
29
30

Portugal
Slovenia
Korea, Rep. of
Barbados
Cyprus

4.2
..
3.5
7.8
3.5

5.8
..
3.6
6.5
5.6

4.1
..
1.8
5.0
..

6.3
6.3
2.6
4.3
3.9

2.7
..
3.7
..
5.0

2.1
1.5
2.7
..
1.6

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

31
32
33
34
35

Malta
Czech Republic
Brunei Darussalam
Argentina
Seychelles

4.3
..
..
1.1
7.8

4.9
4.4
..
4.6
7.5

..
4.8
1.6
4.2
3.6

6.0
6.7
2.5
5.1
4.1

0.9
..
6.7
1.3
4.0

0.9
2.1
7.0
1.2
1.7

..
..
..
4.4
5.9

..
6.5
..
5.7
2.1

36
37
38
39
40

Estonia
Poland
Hungary
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Bahrain

..
..
5.8
2.7
4.2

7.4
5.4
5.1
7.7
..

1.9
4.8
..
2.7
..

4.3
4.6
5.1
3.2
2.9

..
2.7
2.8
..
5.1

1.9
1.9
1.8
..
3.9

..
1.6
12.8
1.9
..

12.0
7.1
22.6
10.7
..

41
42
43
44
45

Lithuania
Slovakia
Chile
Kuwait
Costa Rica

4.6
5.1
2.5
4.8
4.4

..
4.1
3.9
..
4.7

3.0
5.0
2.2
4.0
6.7

4.2
5.1
3.1
3.5
4.9

..
..
4.3
48.5
0.0

1.8
1.9
3.9
10.4
0.0

..
..
9.1
..
8.8

9.3
14.3
12.0
..
4.0

46
47
48
49
50

Uruguay
Qatar
Croatia
United Arab Emirates
Latvia

3.0
3.5
..
1.9
3.8

2.5
..
4.2
..
5.9

2.0
..
9.5
0.8
2.7

5.1
2.2
7.3
2.6
3.4

2.5
..
..
6.2
..

1.7
..
2.5
3.7
1.8

10.6
..
..
..
..

10.6
..
13.5
..
7.7

202

i

g
g

g

g
g

g

h

j

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

19 Priorities
in public
spending

Public expenditure
on education a
(% of GDP)
1990 e
1999-2001 f

HDI rank
51
52
53
54
55

Bahamas
Cuba
Mexico
Trinidad and Tobago
Antigua and Barbuda

Public expenditure
on health b
(% of GDP)
1990
2001

Military expenditure c
(% of GDP)
1990
2002

4.0
..
3.6
3.6
..

..
8.5
5.1
4.0
3.2

2.8
4.9
1.8
2.5
2.8

3.2
6.2
2.7
1.7
3.4

..
..
0.5
..
..

4.1
2.5
..
1.5
9.2

3.9
3.7
1.6
2.0
5.8

3.5
12.3
..
2.6
..

Total debt service d
(% of GDP)
1990
2002

..
..
0.5
..
..

..
..
4.3
8.9
..

..
..
6.8
2.8
..

2.7
4.0
2.4
2.4
2.8

..
..
..
9.8
..

8.8
4.1
..
8.5
6.3

Medium human development
56
57
58
59
60

Bulgaria
Russian Federation
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
Malaysia
Macedonia, TFYR

5.2
3.5
..
5.2
..

..
3.1
2.7
7.9
4.1

61
62
63
64
65

Panama
Belarus
Tonga
Mauritius
Albania

4.7
4.9
..
3.5
5.8

4.3
6.0
5.0
3.3
..

4.6
2.5
3.7
..
3.3

4.8
4.8
3.4
2.0
2.4

1.3
..
..
0.3
5.9

..
1.4
..
0.2
1.2

6.5
..
1.7
6.5
..

13.6
1.4
2.0
5.5
1.2

66
67
68
69
70

Bosnia and Herzegovina
Suriname
Venezuela
Romania
Ukraine

..
8.1
3.0
2.8
5.2

..
..
..
3.5
4.2

..
3.5
2.5
2.8
3.0

2.8
5.7
3.7
5.2
2.9

..
..
1.8
4.6
..

..
..
1.4
2.3
2.9

..
..
10.3
(.)
..

2.8
..
7.9
6.8
7.8

71
72
73
74
75

Saint Lucia
Brazil
Colombia
Oman
Samoa (Western)

..
..
2.5
3.1
3.4

7.3
4.0
4.4
4.2
4.5

2.1
3.0
1.2
2.0
2.8

2.9
3.2
3.6
2.4
4.8

..
1.9
2.2
16.5
..

..
1.6
4.2
12.3
..

1.6
1.8
9.7
7.0
4.9

4.0
11.4
8.6
8.6
3.0

76
77
78
79
80

Thailand
Saudi Arabia
Kazakhstan
Jamaica
Lebanon

3.5
6.5
3.2
4.7
..

5.0
..
..
6.3
2.9

0.9
..
3.2
2.6
..

2.1
3.4
1.9
2.9
..

2.3
12.8
..
..
7.6

1.4
9.8
1.0
..
4.7

6.2
..
..
14.4
3.5

15.6
..
16.7
10.7
12.7

81
82
83
84
85

Fiji
Armenia
Philippines
Maldives
Peru

4.6
7.0
2.9
4.0
2.2

5.5
3.2
3.2
..
3.3

2.0
..
1.5
3.6
1.3

2.7
3.2
1.5
5.6
2.6

2.3
..
1.4
..
..

1.8
2.7
1.0
..
1.5

7.9
..
8.1
4.1
1.8

1.5
3.1
11.8
3.5
5.9

86
87
88
89
90

Turkmenistan
St. Vincent & the Grenadines
Turkey
Paraguay
Jordan

4.3
6.4
2.2
1.1
8.4

..
9.3
3.7
4.7
4.6

4.0
4.4
2.2
0.7
3.6

3.0
3.8
..
3.0
4.5

..
..
3.5
1.2
9.9

..
..
4.9
0.9
8.4

..
2.2
4.9
6.2
15.6

..
3.7
15.0
5.9
6.3

91
92
93
94
95

Azerbaijan
Tunisia
Grenada
China
Dominica

..
6.0
5.1
2.3
..

3.5
6.8
..
..
5.0

2.7
3.0
3.3
2.2
3.9

..
4.9
3.8
2.0
4.3

..
2.0
..
2.7
..

2.0
..
..
2.5
..

..
11.6
1.5
2.0
3.5

3.1
6.8
6.2
2.4
4.5

Sri Lanka
Georgia
Dominican Republic
Belize
Ecuador

2.6
..
..
4.7
2.8

1.3
2.5
2.4
6.2
1.0

1.5
3.0
1.6
2.2
1.5

1.8
1.4
2.2
2.3
2.3

2.1
..
..
1.2
1.9

3.1
0.9
..
..
2.8

4.8
..
3.3
5.0
10.5

4.3
3.8
3.1
22.3
9.0

96
97
98
99
100

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

g

g

g

g
g

g

g

g

g

g

k

j

203

19 Priorities
in public
spending

Public expenditure
on education a
(% of GDP)
1990 e
1999-2001 f

HDI rank
101
102
103
104
105

Iran, Islamic Rep. of
Occupied Palestinian Territories
El Salvador
Guyana
Cape Verde

4.1
..
1.9
3.4
..

5.0
..
2.5
4.1
..

106
107
108
109
110

Syrian Arab Republic
Uzbekistan
Algeria
Equatorial Guinea
Kyrgyzstan

4.1
..
5.3
..
8.3

111
112
113
114
115

Indonesia
Viet Nam
Moldova, Rep. of
Bolivia
Honduras

116
117
118
119
120

Tajikistan
Mongolia
Nicaragua
South Africa
Egypt

121
122
123
124
125

Public expenditure
on health b
(% of GDP)
1990
2001

Military expenditure c
(% of GDP)
1990
2002

Total debt service d
(% of GDP)
1990
2002

1.5
..
1.4
2.9
..

2.7
..
3.7
4.2
3.8

2.9
..
2.7
0.9
..

4.0
..
0.8
..
0.7

0.5
..
4.3
74.5
1.7

1.3
..
3.2
10.8
3.5

4.0
..
..
0.5
3.1

0.4
4.6
3.0
1.0
4.7

2.4
2.7
3.1
1.2
1.9

6.9
..
1.5
..
..

6.1
..
3.7
..
1.5

9.7
..
14.2
3.9
..

1.2
9.2
7.5
0.2
10.8

1.0
..
..
2.3
..

1.3
..
4.0
6.0
..

0.6
0.9
4.4
2.1
3.3

0.6
1.5
2.8
3.5
3.2

1.8
7.9
..
2.4
..

1.2
..
0.4
1.7
0.8

8.7
2.7
..
7.9
12.8

9.8
3.4
14.1
6.1
6.0

9.7
12.1
3.4
6.2
3.7

2.4
6.5
..
5.7
..

4.9
6.4
7.0
3.1
1.8

1.0
4.6
3.8
3.6
1.9

..
5.7
4.0
3.8
3.9

1.4
2.3
1.4
1.6
2.7

..
..
1.6
..
7.1

6.5
4.7
3.8
4.5
2.3

Guatemala
Gabon
São Tomé and Principe
Solomon Islands
Morocco

1.4
..
..
..
5.3

1.7
3.9
..
3.5
5.1

1.8
2.0
..
5.0
0.9

2.3
1.7
1.5
4.7
2.0

1.5
..
..
..
4.1

0.6
..
..
..
4.3

2.8
3.0
4.9
5.5
6.9

1.8
8.3
12.1
2.4
10.2

126
127
128
129
130

Namibia
India
Botswana
Vanuatu
Cambodia

7.6
3.9
6.7
4.6
..

7.9
4.1
2.1
10.5
2.0

3.7
0.9
1.7
2.6
..

4.7
0.9
4.4
2.2
1.7

5.6
2.7
4.1
..
3.1

2.9
2.3
4.0
..
2.7

..
2.6
2.8
1.6
2.7

..
2.6
1.1
0.9
0.5

131
132
133
134
135

Ghana
Myanmar
Papua New Guinea
Bhutan
Lao People’s Dem. Rep.

3.2
..
..
..
..

4.1
1.3
2.3
5.2
3.2

1.3
1.0
3.1
1.7
0.0

2.8
0.4
3.9
3.6
1.7

0.4
3.4
2.1
..
..

0.6
..
..
..
..

6.2
..
17.2
1.8
1.1

3.4
..
9.9
1.1
2.7

136
137
138
139
140
141

Comoros
Swaziland
Bangladesh
Sudan
Nepal
Cameroon

..
5.7
1.5
0.9
2.0
3.2

..
5.5
2.3
..
3.4
5.4

2.9
1.9
0.7
0.7
0.8
0.9

1.9
2.3
1.5
0.6
1.5
1.2

..
2.1
1.0
3.6
0.9
1.5

..
..
1.1
2.8
1.4
1.4

0.4
5.3
2.5
0.4
1.9
4.6

1.9
1.7
1.5
0.2
1.8
3.9

1.1
1.4
1.5
2.6
..

1.0
1.5
1.4
4.3
3.4

5.8
3.1
..
4.5
3.0

4.7
..
..
2.7
2.4

4.8
5.3
19.0
3.8
3.4

4.8
0.9
0.8
9.4
1.4

3.2
2.4
1.1
..
1.0

2.8
1.7
1.5
1.3
0.8

4.5
2.9
8.5
1.2
0.9

3.2
1.7
7.1
..
1.1

5.4
9.2
3.5
7.2
11.7

0.7
3.7
1.7
1.7
3.4

g
g

g

g

g

g

g

j

j

Low human development
142
143
144
145
146

Pakistan
Togo
Congo
Lesotho
Uganda

2.6
5.5
5.0
6.1
1.5

1.8
4.8
3.2
10.0
2.5

g

147
148
149
150
151

Zimbabwe
Kenya
Yemen
Madagascar
Nigeria

..
6.7
..
2.1
0.9

10.4
6.2
10.0
2.5
..

g

204

g

g
g

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

19 Priorities
in public
spending

Public expenditure
on education a
(% of GDP)
1990 e
1999-2001 f

HDI rank
152
153
154
155
156

Mauritania
Haiti
Djibouti
Gambia
Eritrea

..
1.4
..
3.8
..

3.6
..
..
2.7
2.7

g

157
158
159
160
161

Senegal
Timor-Leste
Rwanda
Guinea
Benin

3.9
..
..
..
..

3.2
..
2.8
1.9
3.3

g

162
163
164
165
166

Tanzania, U. Rep. of
Côte d’Ivoire
Zambia
Malawi
Angola

3.2
..
2.4
3.3
3.9

..
4.6
1.9
4.1
2.8

167
168
169
170
171

Chad
Congo, Dem. Rep. of the
Central African Republic
Ethiopia
Mozambique

..
..
2.2
3.4
3.9

2.0
..
..
4.8
2.4

172
173
174
175
176
177

Guinea-Bissau
Burundi
Mali
Burkina Faso
Niger
Sierra Leone

..
3.4
..
2.7
3.2
..

2.1
3.6
2.8
..
2.3
..

g

g
g
g

g
g
g

g

g
g

Public expenditure
on health b
(% of GDP)
1990
2001

Military expenditure c
(% of GDP)
1990
2002

Total debt service d
(% of GDP)
1990
2002

..
1.2
..
2.2
..

2.6
2.7
4.1
3.2
3.7

3.8
..
6.3
1.1
..

1.9
..
..
0.9
23.5

14.3
1.2
3.6
11.9
..

6.6
0.8
2.0
5.4
1.4

0.7
..
1.7
2.0
1.6

2.8
5.8
3.1
1.9
2.1

2.0
..
3.7
2.4
1.8

1.5
0.0
3.3
2.9
..

5.7
..
0.8
6.0
2.1

4.3
..
1.3
4.2
2.3

1.6
1.5
2.6
..
1.4

2.0
1.0
3.0
2.7
2.8

2.0
1.3
3.7
1.3
5.8

1.5
..
..
..
3.7

4.2
11.7
6.2
7.1
3.2

1.5
7.1
8.3
1.9
7.7

..
..
..
0.9
3.6

2.0
1.5
2.3
1.4
4.0

..
..
1.6
8.5
10.1

1.4
..
1.0
5.2
2.4

0.7
3.7
2.0
2.7
3.2

1.5
16.2
0.1
1.8
2.1

1.1
1.1
1.6
1.0
..
..

3.2
2.1
1.7
2.0
1.4
2.6

..
3.4
2.1
3.0
..
1.4

..
7.6
..
1.8
1.1
2.2

3.4
3.7
2.8
1.1
4.0
3.3

7.3
3.2
2.7
1.7
1.3
2.9

j

j

j

a. Data refer to total public expenditure on education, including current and capital expenditures. b. Data for some countries may differ slightly from data presented in table 6 from WHO 2004b. c. As a result of a number of limitations in the data, comparisons of military expenditure data over time and across countries should be made with caution. For detailed notes on the data see SIPRI 2003. d. For aggregates, see table 18. e. Data
may not be comparable between countries as a result of differences in methods of data collection. f. Data refer to the most recent year available during the period specified. g. Data refer to UNESCO Institute for Statistics
estimate when national estimate is not available. h. Data refer to the Federal Republic of Germany before reunification. i. Data refer to the Office of Greek Education only. j. Data refer to 1991. k. Data refer to the former
Soviet Union.
Source: Column 1: Calculated on the basis of GDP and public expenditure data from UNESCO Institute for Statistics 2003c; column 2: UNESCO Institute for Statistics 2004b; columns 3 and 4: World Bank 2004f; columns
5 and 6: SIPRI 2004a; columns 7 and 8: calculated on the basis of data on GDP and total debt service from World Bank 2004f.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

205

20 Unemployment
in OECD
countries

. . . TO HAVE ACCESS TO THE RESOURCES NEEDED FOR A DECENT STANDARD OF LIVING . . .

Unemployed
people
(thousands)
2002

HDI rank

Unemployment rate
Average
Total
annual
Female
(% of
(% of
(% of
labour force)
labour force)
male rate)
2002
1992-2002
2002

MDG
Youth unemployment rate
Total
(% of labour
Female
force ages
(% of
15-24) b
male rate)
2002
2002

Long-term
unemployment a
(% of total
unemployment)
Women
Men
2002
2002

High human development
1
2
3
4
5

Norway
Sweden
Australia
Canada
Netherlands

94.3
176.2
631.3
1,276.2
169.9

4.0
4.0
6.3
7.6
2.3

4.4
6.4
8.1
9.0
4.8

89
84
94
88
128

11.5
12.8
12.4
13.7
5.9

85
86
87
77
87

3.9
18.2
17.1
8.8
26.4

8.3
23.1
25.9
10.3
26.9

6
7
8
9
10

Belgium
Iceland
United States
Japan
Ireland

329.9
5.3
8,388.7
3,586.6
82.1

7.3
3.3
5.8
5.4
4.4

8.4
3.6
5.4
3.8
9.6

125
82
95
91
81

15.7
7.2
12.0
10.0
7.7

95
46
87
76
74

53.6
13.3
8.1
22.4
18.0

45.9
9.5
8.9
36.2
35.9

11
12
13
14
15

Switzerland
United Kingdom
Finland
Austria
Luxembourg

131.4
1,508.5
236.9
229.5
5.8

3.1
5.2
9.1
5.3
3.0

3.3
7.3
12.5
5.3
2.8

109
77
100
96
188

5.7
11.0
20.7
6.3
7.0

54
68
97
94
168

24.5
17.1
21.2
23.3
26.5

19.3
26.9
27.3
16.4
28.6

16
17
18
19
20

France
Denmark
New Zealand
Germany
Spain

2,442.8
129.4
102.5
3,396.0
2,082.9

9.0
4.5
5.2
8.1
11.4

10.8
6.1
7.1
7.9
14.6

128
102
106
95
203

20.2
7.1
11.4
9.7
22.2

125
59
98
70
149

35.2
22.4
11.5
50.3
44.5

32.2
17.2
16.9
46.0
34.3

21
24
26
28
32

Italy
Greece
Portugal
Korea, Rep. of
Czech Republic

2,163.2
435.7
272.3
708.0
374.1

9.1
10.0
5.1
3.1
7.3

10.8
10.1
5.5
3.5
6.0

177
236
146
73
153

26.3
25.7
11.5
8.1
16.0

139
181
143
70
115

60.1
55.7
36.2
1.2
51.1

58.2
47.1
34.8
3.1
50.3

37
38
42
53

Poland
Hungary
Slovakia
Mexico

3,430.8
238.8
487.0
548.6

19.9
5.9
18.6
2.7

14.4
8.7
15.1
3.5

109
88
101
104

43.9
12.6
37.4
4.9

102
90
91
124

52.0
41.7
61.2
0.4

45.1
47.0
58.5
1.2

2,473.0

10.3

7.7

91

19.5

87

36.4

27.3

36,137.5 T

6.9

6.9

107

13.1

94

30.9

28.5

d

e

c

c

Medium human development
86 Turkey
OECD f

a. Data refer to unemployment lasting 12 months or longer. b. The age range for the youth labour force may be 16-24 for some countries. c. Data are based on a small sample and must be treated with caution. d. Data
refer to the average annual rate in 1993-2002. e. Data refer to the average annual rate in 1994-2002. f. Aggregates for the group of Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) countries are
from OECD 2004c.
Source: Columns 1, 2 and 5: OECD 2004c; columns 3, 4 and 6: calculated on the basis of data on male and female unemployment rates from OECD 2004c; columns 7 and 8: OECD 2004d.

206

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

. . . WHILE PRESERVING IT FOR FUTURE GENERATIONS . . .

21 Energy
and the
environment

MDG
MDG
Traditional fuel
consumption
(% of total energy
requirements)
2001

HDI rank

Electricity
consumption
per capita
(kilowatt-hours)
1980
2001

GDP per unit
of energy use
(1995 PPP US$ per
kg of oil equivalent)
1980
2001

Carbon dioxide emissions
Share of
world
Per capita
total
(metric tons)
(%)
1980
2000
2000

Ratification of environmental treaties a
Kyoto
Protocol
to the
Cartagena Framework Framework Convention
Protocol
Convention Convention
on
on
on Climate on Climate Biological
Diversity
Biosafety
Change
Change b

High human development
c

c

1
2
3
4
5

Norway
Sweden
Australia
Canada
Netherlands

5.1
33.1
7.9
4.6
1.1

6
7
8
9
10

Belgium
Iceland
United States
Japan
Ireland

1.5
0.0
4.0
1.2
1.1

11
12
13
14
15

Switzerland
United Kingdom
Finland
Austria
Luxembourg

6.8
0.5
24.7
13.3
1.6

d

5,878
5,022
8,372
4,988
10,879

d

8,499
6,631
16,273
8,110
15,602

16
17
18
19
20

France
Denmark
New Zealand
Germany
Spain

5.7
11.5
6.3
2.3
3.9

e

4,633
5,059
7,270
..
2,906

e

21
22
23
24
25

Italy
Israel
Hong Kong, China (SAR)
Greece
Singapore

2.0
0.0
0.4
5.0
0.1

f

3,364
3,187
2,449
2,413
2,836

f

26
27
28
29
30

Portugal
Slovenia
Korea, Rep. of
Barbados
Cyprus

9.7
7.5
1.9
5.9
1.3

1,750
..
1,051
1,333
1,692

31
32
33
34
35

Malta
Czech Republic
Brunei Darussalam
Argentina
Seychelles

..
2.1
0.0
3.9
..

36
37
38
39
40

Estonia
Poland
Hungary
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Bahrain

41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50

22,400
11,700
6,599
14,243
4,560

c

●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

e

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

f

●

●
●
–
●
●

●
●
–
●

●
●
–
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●

●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●

0.1
1.2
0.2
(.)
0.1

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

3.4
6.6
3.9
21.9
1.4

(.)
0.1
0.2
0.2
(.)

●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

1.6
69.5
4.4
21.0
2.5

(.)
0.2
0.1
0.2
(.)

●

●
●
●
●
●

●

4.4
3.4
3.4
2.4
3.7

5.5
4.0
4.2
3.2
5.2

9.5
8.6
13.8
17.1
10.8

11.1
5.3
18.0
14.2
8.7

0.2
0.2
1.4
1.8
0.6

3.6
2.8
2.6
5.1
4.1

4.3
2.3
4.0
5.8
7.0

13.3
8.2
20.4
7.9
7.4

10.0
7.7
19.8
9.3
11.1

0.4
(.)
23.1
4.9
0.2

●
●

d

7.0
4.1
2.8
5.6
1.9

7.0
5.8
3.6
6.8
5.0

6.5
10.3
11.9
6.9
28.9

5.4
9.6
10.3
7.6
19.4

0.2
2.3
0.2
0.3
(.)

8,351
8,173
10,366
7,207
5,986

e

4.8
4.9
4.9
3.7
6.2

5.3
7.3
4.0
5.6
6.0

9.0
12.3
5.6
..
5.3

6.2
8.4
8.3
9.6
7.0

1.5
0.2
0.1
3.2
1.2

5,770
6,591
6,127
5,082
8,010

f

6.5
5.6
10.2
7.5
3.4

7.8
..
9.9
5.8
2.9

6.6
5.4
3.2
5.4
12.5

7.4
10.0
5.0
8.5
14.7

1.8
0.3
0.1
0.4
0.2

4,539
6,372
6,632
3,086
4,679

8.4
..
3.8
..
4.5

6.4
4.5
3.5
..
5.0

2.8
..
3.3
2.7
5.2

5.9
7.3
9.1
4.4
8.5

0.2
0.1
1.8
(.)
(.)

1,627
..
2,430
1,413
794

4,932
6,368
8,459
2,453
2,481

6.4
..
3.5
7.3
..

8.3
3.2
..
6.8
..

2.7
..
35.5
3.8
1.5

7.2
11.6
..
3.9
2.8

(.)
0.5
(.)
0.6
(.)

19.0
5.2
4.0
50.0
0.0

..
3,419
2,920
..
4,784

5,777
3,595
3,886
2,500
10,350

1.9
..
3.3
..
1.4

2.8
3.9
4.7
..
1.5

..
12.8
7.7
..
23.4

11.7
7.8
5.4
..
29.1

Lithuania
Slovakia
Chile
Kuwait
Costa Rica

15.1
1.8
16.2
0.0
30.1

..
..
1,054
6,849
964

3,095
5,273
2,851
15,309
1,727

..
..
4.9
2.3
8.9

3.7
3.1
5.6
2.2
8.3

..
..
2.5
18.0
1.1

Uruguay
Qatar
Croatia
United Arab Emirates
Latvia

39.1
0.0
6.4
0.0
48.7

1,163
10,616
..
6,204
..

2,380
16,677
3,455
13,948
2,617

7.6
..
..
..
32.7

9.7
..
4.7
..
4.1

2.0
56.3
..
34.8
..

5,177
13,838
10,336
4,944
3,106

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

29,290
17,355
11,205
18,212
6,905
8,818
28,260
13,241
8,203
6,417

●
●

–
●
●
●
●
●

●

●
●

●

●
●

●
●
●
●
●

207

21 Energy
and the
environment

MDG
MDG
Traditional fuel
consumption
(% of total energy
requirements)
2001

HDI rank

51
52
53
54
55

Bahamas
Cuba
Mexico
Trinidad and Tobago
Antigua and Barbuda

Electricity
consumption
per capita
(kilowatt-hours)
1980
2001

GDP per unit
of energy use
(1995 PPP US$ per
kg of oil equivalent)
1980
2001

Carbon dioxide emissions
Share of
world
Per capita
total
(metric tons)
(%)
1980
2000
2000

Ratification of environmental treaties a
Kyoto
Protocol
to the
Cartagena Framework Framework Convention
Protocol
Convention Convention
on
on
on Climate on Climate Biological
Diversity
Biosafety
Change
Change b

..
24.5
15.0
0.7
..

4,062
1,029
999
1,900
984

5,407
1,363
2,228
4,219
1,375

..
..
4.9
2.0
..

..
..
5.3
1.3
..

38.0
3.2
3.7
15.4
2.3

5.9
2.8
4.3
20.5
5.2

(.)
0.1
1.8
0.1
(.)

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

5.3
3.4
1.2
2.3
9.6

4,371
..
1,588
740
..

4,681
6,081
4,021
3,039
3,338

1.5
1.5
..
4.3
..

2.5
1.6
..
3.6
..

8.5
..
8.8
2.0
..

5.2
9.9
10.9
6.2
5.5

0.2
5.9
0.2
0.6
(.)

●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●

Medium human development
56
57
58
59
60

Bulgaria
Russian Federation
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
Malaysia
Macedonia, TFYR

61
62
63
64
65

Panama
Belarus
Tonga
Mauritius
Albania

20.2
5.8
0.0
30.4
6.3

930
..
109
482
1,204

1,770
3,340
356
1,592
1,743

6.1
..
..
..
2.7

5.1
1.9
..
..
6.4

1.8
..
0.4
0.6
1.8

2.2
5.9
1.2
2.4
0.9

(.)
0.2
(.)
(.)
(.)

66
67
68
69
70

Bosnia and Herzegovina
Suriname
Venezuela
Romania
Ukraine

7.4
6.7
2.6
11.7
1.1

..
4,442
2,379
3,061
..

2,303
4,359
3,659
2,345
3,465

..
..
2.7
..
..

4.8
..
2.4
3.4
1.4

..
6.7
6.0
8.6
..

4.8
5.0
6.5
3.8
6.9

0.1
(.)
0.7
0.4
1.4

●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

71
72
73
74
75

Saint Lucia
Brazil
Colombia
Oman
Samoa (Western)

..
35.7
19.1
..
33.3

504
1,145
726
847
252

1,816
2,122
1,010
5,119
600

..
6.7
6.5
7.5
..

..
6.2
7.9
3.0
..

1.0
1.5
1.4
5.3
0.6

..
1.8
1.4
8.2
0.8

(.)
1.3
0.2
0.1
(.)

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●

76
77
78
79
80

Thailand
Saudi Arabia
Kazakhstan
Jamaica
Lebanon

15.9
(.)
..
8.5
1.0

340
1,969
..
834
1,056

1,804
6,018
3,964
2,539
3,025

4.8
5.6
..
2.7
..

4.8
2.0
1.7
2.1
3.2

0.9
14.0
..
4.0
2.1

3.3
18.1
8.1
4.2
3.5

0.8
1.5
0.5
(.)
0.1

●
●
●
●
●

●

81
82
83
84
85

Fiji
Armenia
Philippines
Maldives
Peru

32.1
1.1
33.4
0.0
25.4

489
..
373
25
579

633
1,413
599
420
874

..
..
8.3
..
7.2

..
3.3
6.8
..
9.4

1.2
..
0.8
0.3
1.4

0.9
1.1
1.0
1.8
1.1

(.)
(.)
0.3
(.)
0.1

●
●
●

86
87
88
89
90

Turkmenistan
..
St. Vincent & the Grenadines ..
Turkey
11.7
Paraguay
28.7
Jordan
2.0

..
276
554
233
366

1,908
780
1,849
1,124
1,507

..
..
5.2
6.7
5.4

1.3
..
4.9
6.1
3.7

..
0.4
1.7
0.5
2.2

7.5
..
3.3
0.7
3.2

0.1
(.)
0.9
(.)
0.1

●
●
●
●

91
92
93
94
95

Azerbaijan
Tunisia
Grenada
China
Dominica

0.0
10.4
0.0
7.8
..

..
434
281
307
149

2,422
1,106
1,168
1,139
1,038

..
6.5
..
1.2
..

1.7
7.0
..
4.2
..

..
1.5
0.5
1.5
0.5

3.6
1.9
2.1
2.2
1.4

0.1
0.1
(.)
11.5
(.)

Sri Lanka
Georgia
Dominican Republic
Belize
Ecuador

34.8
27.2
11.3
31.3
22.5

113
..
582
370
423

354
1,379
1,233
669
865

5.1
6.0
5.4
..
2.6

7.3
4.2
5.7
..
4.4

0.2
..
1.1
1.3
1.7

0.6
1.2
3.0
3.3
2.0

(.)
(.)
0.1
(.)
0.1

96
97
98
99
100

208

●
●
●
●
●
●

●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●

●

●

●
●

●

●
●

●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

21 Energy
and the
environment

MDG
MDG
Traditional fuel
consumption
(% of total energy
requirements)
2001

HDI rank

Electricity
consumption
per capita
(kilowatt-hours)
1980
2001

GDP per unit
of energy use
(1995 PPP US$ per
kg of oil equivalent)
1980
2001

Carbon dioxide emissions
Share of
world
Per capita
total
(metric tons)
(%)
1980
2000
2000

Ratification of environmental treaties a
Kyoto
Protocol
to the
Cartagena Framework Framework Convention
Protocol
Convention Convention
on
on
on Climate on Climate Biological
Diversity
Biosafety
Change
Change b

●

●

●

●
●
●

101
102
103
104
105

Iran, Islamic Rep. of
0.1
Occupied Palestinian Territories ..
El Salvador
39.9
Guyana
47.6
Cape Verde
..

570
..
336
545
55

1,985
..
661
1,189
102

4.5
..
4.0
..
..

3.0
..
6.2
..
..

3.0
..
0.5
2.3
0.4

4.9
..
1.1
2.1
0.3

1.3
..
(.)
(.)
(.)

106
107
108
109
110

Syrian Arab Republic
Uzbekistan
Algeria
Equatorial Guinea
Kyrgyzstan

0.0
0.0
8.4
75.0
0.0

433
..
381
83
..

1,528
1,971
866
49
2,396

4.3
..
7.6
..
..

3.5
0.7
5.0
..
3.2

2.2
..
3.5
0.3
..

3.3
4.8
2.9
0.4
0.9

0.2
0.5
0.4
(.)
(.)

●

●
●
●
●
●

111
112
113
114
115

Indonesia
Viet Nam
Moldova, Rep. of
Bolivia
Honduras

24.8
32.5
2.2
23.6
62.1

94
78
..
292
259

469
389
1,572
469
650

3.3
..
..
5.1
4.4

3.7
4.0
1.7
4.3
4.6

0.6
0.3
..
0.8
0.6

1.3
0.7
1.5
1.3
0.7

1.1
0.2
(.)
(.)
(.)

●
●
●
●
●

116
117
118
119
120

Tajikistan
Mongolia
Nicaragua
South Africa
Egypt

..
3.3
54.6
12.9
12.6

..
1,119
363
3,181
433

2,499
1,308
485
4,313
1,129

..
..
5.3
4.2
5.0

1.7
..
..
3.5
4.5

..
4.1
0.7
7.7
1.1

0.6
3.1
0.7
7.4
2.2

(.)
(.)
(.)
1.4
0.6

121
122
123
124
125

Guatemala
Gabon
São Tomé and Principe
Solomon Islands
Morocco

65.3
21.3
..
66.7
2.5

6.5
3.1
..
..
10.6

5.7
4.2
..
..
9.0

0.7
8.9
0.5
0.4
0.8

0.9
2.8
0.6
0.4
1.3

(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)
0.2

126
127
128
129
130

Namibia
India
Botswana
Vanuatu
Cambodia

..
24.3
..
50.0
95.1

..
3.1
..
..
..

9.3
4.4
..
..
..

..
0.5
1.1
0.5
(.)

1.0
1.1
2.3
0.4
(.)

(.)
4.4
(.)
(.)
(.)

●
●
●

131
132
133
134
135

Ghana
Myanmar
Papua New Guinea
Bhutan
Lao People’s Dem. Rep.

84.5
81.1
68.6
84.1
81.6

4.4
..
..
..
..

4.3
..
..
..
..

0.2
0.1
0.6
(.)
0.1

0.3
0.2
0.5
0.5
0.1

(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)

●
●

136
137
138
139
140
141

Comoros
Swaziland
Bangladesh
Sudan
Nepal
Cameroon

..
..
63.6
80.1
88.0
71.6

..
..
9.7
2.3
2.4
4.4

..
..
9.7
3.3
3.5
4.2

0.1
0.8
0.1
0.2
(.)
0.4

0.1
0.4
0.2
0.2
0.1
0.4

(.)
(.)
0.1
(.)
(.)
(.)

●
●

●
●
●
●
●
●

3.5
6.6
1.9
..
..

3.8
4.2
3.3
..
..

0.4
0.2
0.2
..
0.1

0.8
0.4
0.5
..
0.1

0.4
(.)
(.)
..
(.)

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

2.5
1.6
..
..
1.3

2.8
1.8
3.8
..
1.1

1.3
0.4
..
0.2
1.0

1.2
0.3
0.5
0.1
0.3

0.1
(.)
(.)
(.)
0.1

●
●

●
●
●
●
●

g

g

245
766
96
93
254
h

h

..
173
..
171
15

481
1,214
118
71
569
h

h

450
44
406
17
68
h

26
..
30
47
17
168

g

..
561
..
4,813
18

h

h

404
118
255
241
130
h

26
..
115
81
63
226

h

●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●
●
●
●
●
●

●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●

Low human development
142
143
144
145
146

Pakistan
Togo
Congo
Lesotho
Uganda

26.6
88.6
65.6
..
95.0

147
148
149
150
151

Zimbabwe
Kenya
Yemen
Madagascar
Nigeria

68.6
70.6
3.2
84.4
82.3

h

176
74
98
..
28
1,020
109
..
49
108

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

h

479
125
137
..
66
950
140
164
51
154

h

●
●

●

●
●
●
●
●

209

21 Energy
and the
environment

MDG
MDG
Traditional fuel
consumption
(% of total energy
requirements)
2001

HDI rank

Electricity
consumption
per capita
(kilowatt-hours)
1980
2001

GDP per unit
of energy use
(1995 PPP US$ per
kg of oil equivalent)
1980
2001

Carbon dioxide emissions
Share of
world
Per capita
total
(metric tons)
(%)
1980
2000
2000

Ratification of environmental treaties a
Kyoto
Protocol
to the
Cartagena Framework Framework Convention
Protocol
Convention Convention
on
on
on Climate on Climate Biological
Diversity
Biosafety
Change
Change b

●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●

●

●

●

●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●

●
●
●

●

●
●
●
●
●

152
153
154
155
156

Mauritania
Haiti
Djibouti
Gambia
Eritrea

36.9
54.0
..
71.4
77.8

60
58
416
70
..

61
67
286
95
61

..
6.5
..
..
..

..
5.8
..
..
..

0.4
0.1
1.0
0.2
..

1.2
0.2
0.6
0.2
0.1

(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)

157
158
159
160
161

Senegal
Timor-Leste
Rwanda
Guinea
Benin

72.5
..
92.8
90.6
81.9

115
..
32
85
37

151
..
23
97
75

3.6
..
..
..
2.0

4.3
..
..
..
2.9

0.5
..
0.1
0.2
0.1

0.4
..
0.1
0.2
0.3

(.)
..
(.)
(.)
(.)

162
163
164
165
166

Tanzania, U. Rep. of
Côte d’Ivoire
Zambia
Malawi
Angola

92.8
75.1
87.1
86.6
79.2

41
220
1,125
66
214

85
233
598
76
125

..
4.6
1.3
..
2.9

1.2
3.7
1.2
..
2.2

0.1
0.6
0.6
0.1
0.8

0.1
0.7
0.2
0.1
0.5

(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)

167
168
169
170
171

Chad
Congo, Dem. Rep. of the
Central African Republic
Ethiopia
Mozambique

97.8
94.6
87.5
95.2
90.5

10
161
29
..
364

12
93
29
30
70

..
5.3
..
..
..

..
1.9
..
2.2
..

(.)
0.1
(.)
(.)
0.3

(.)
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1

(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)

172
173
174
175
176
177

Guinea-Bissau
Burundi
Mali
Burkina Faso
Niger
Sierra Leone

66.7
96.6
88.3
91.7
77.3
92.0

18
12
15
16
39
62

43
73
34
24
41
55

..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..

0.7
(.)
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.2

0.2
(.)
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1

(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)

Developing countries
Least developed countries
Arab States
East Asia and the Pacific
Latin America and the Caribbean
South Asia
Sub-Saharan Africa
Central & Eastern Europe & CIS
OECD
High-income OECD

21.4
84.1
5.9
10.9
21.4
23.4
62.6
4.0
4.5
4.1

388
83
626
329
1,019
171
434
3,284
5,761
6,698

1,035
95
1,783
1,194
1,888
554
495
3,326
8,503
10,105

3.3
..
5.1
1.9
5.7
3.5
3.0
..
3.6
3.5

4.2
3.7
3.4
4.2
5.7
4.3
2.4
2.0
4.7
4.7

1.3
0.1
3.0
1.4
2.4
0.5
1.0
..
11.0
12.2

1.9
0.2
4.1
2.3
2.7
1.1
0.8
7.3
10.9
12.5

36.9
0.4
4.5
17.6
5.6
6.3
1.9
12.2
51.0
46.2

-

-

-

-

High human development
Medium human development
Low human development

4.5
13.4
75.8

5,700
387
157

8,520
1,022
218

3.6
2.6
2.4

4.7
3.7
2.2

10.9
1.3
0.4

10.9
2.3
0.3

52.8
38.7
1.0

-

-

-

-

High income
Middle income
Low income

4.0
9.3
43.5

6,614
667
166

10,030
1,541
400

3.5
2.7
3.1

4.7
3.7
3.6

12.2
2.3
0.5

12.4
3.4
0.9

47.8
37.6
8.5

-

-

-

-

World

10.7

1,573

2,361

3.2

4.2

3.4

3.8

100.0

-

-

-

-

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●

i

●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●
●

● Ratification, acceptance, approval, accession or succession. ● Signature.
a. Information is as of 24 March 2004. The Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety was signed in Cartagena in 2000, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in New York in 1992, the Kyoto Protocol to
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Kyoto in 1997 and the Convention on Biological Diversity in Rio de Janeiro in 1992. b. Has not yet entered into force. c. Includes Svalbard and Jan Mayen
Islands. d. Includes Liechtenstein. e. Includes Monaco. f. Includes San Marino. g. Data refer to the South African Customs Union, which includes Botswana, Lesotho, Swaziland and Namibia. h. Included in the data for
South Africa. i. Data refer to the world aggregate from CDIAC 2004. Data refer to total carbon dioxide emissions, including those of countries not shown in the main indicator tables as well as emissions not included in
national totals, such as those from bunker fuels and oxidation of non-fuel hydrocarbon products.
Source: Column 1: Calculated on the basis of data on traditional fuel consumption and total energy requirements from UN 2004c; columns 2-3: UN 2004b; columns 4-7: World Bank 2004f; aggregates calculated for
the Human Development Report Office by the World Bank; column 8: calculated on the basis of data on carbon dioxide emissions from CDIAC 2004; columns 9-12: UN 2004f.

210

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

. . . PROTECTING PERSONAL SECURITY . . .

22 Refugees and
armaments

Internally
displaced
people
(thousands)
2003 a, c

HDI rank

Refugees a
By country
By country
of asylum
of origin d
(thousands)
(thousands)
2003
2003

Conventional arms transfers b
(1990 prices)
Exports
Imports
US$
Share e
(US$ millions)
millions
(%)
1994
2003
2003
1999-2003

Total armed forces
Index
Thousands (1985 = 100)
2002
2002

High human development
1
2
3
4
5

Norway
Sweden
Australia
Canada
Netherlands

0
0
0
0
0

6
7
8
9
10

Belgium
Iceland
United States
Japan
Ireland

0
0
0
0
0

11
12
13
14
15

Switzerland
United Kingdom
Finland
Austria
Luxembourg

0
0
0
0
0

f
f

f
f

f
f
f

56
142
59
133
148
13
(.)
453
2
6
49
277
13
14
1
132
74
6
960
6

f
f

f
f

f
f
f

(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)

99
258
263
333
143

(.)
23
485
94
132

150
186
30
556
268

1
1
(.)
1
1

27
34
51
52
50

72
52
72
63
47

(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)

52
..
725
596
48

27
..
515
210
2

6
(.)
4,385
(.)
(.)

(.)
0
34
0
0

39
..
1,414
240
11

43
..
66
99
77

(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)
..

113
38
179
65
(.)

41
555
125
55
1

35
525
10
2
..

(.)
5
(.)
(.)
..

28
210
32
35
1

138
63
87
63
129

(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)

6
66
16
..
636

120
7
71
69
97

1,753
3
(.)
1,549
124

7
(.)
0
6
(.)

260
23
9
296
178

56
77
70
62
56

(.)
(.)
..
(.)
(.)

151
829
..
1,262
171

348
318
..
1,957
121

277
212
..
(.)
(.)

2
1
..
(.)
(.)

217
162
..
178
61

56
114
..
88
110

16
17
18
19
20

France
Denmark
New Zealand
Germany
Spain

0
0
0
0
0

21
22
23
24
25

Italy
Israel
Hong Kong, China (SAR)
Greece
Singapore

0
0
0
0
0

26
27
28
29
30

Portugal
Slovenia
Korea, Rep. of
Barbados
Cyprus

0
0
0
..
0

f

(.)
2
(.)
..
(.)

f

(.)
1
(.)
(.)
(.)

433
11
665
..
46

68
14
299
..
(.)

(.)
..
36
..
(.)

0
..
(.)
..
0

44
9
686
1
10

60
..
115
60
100

31
32
33
34
35

Malta
Czech Republic
Brunei Darussalam
Argentina
Seychelles

0
0
..
0
..

f

(.)
2
..
3
..

f

..
6
(.)
(.)
(.)

(.)
(.)
(.)
177
..

(.)
111
(.)
127
..

..
48
..
(.)
..

..
(.)
..
(.)
..

2
49
7
70
1

263
24
171
65
42

36
37
38
39
40

Estonia
Poland
Hungary
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Bahrain

0
0
0
..
0

1
14
2
..
(.)

15
8
4
..
10

16
420
(.)
..
(.)

(.)
89
(.)
..
(.)

0
(.)
0
..
(.)

6
163
33
..
11

..
51
32
..
382

41
42
43
44
45

Lithuania
Slovakia
Chile
Kuwait
Costa Rica

0
0
0
0
0

(.)
(.)
(.)
2
14

1
(.)
1
(.)
(.)

(.)
30
113
37
(.)

(.)
(.)
156
21
(.)

(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)
..

(.)
(.)
(.)
0
..

14
26
81
16
..

..
..
80
129
..

46
47
48
49
50

Uruguay
Qatar
Croatia
United Arab Emirates
Latvia

0
0
13
0
0

(.)
(.)
4
(.)
(.)

(.)
(.)
215
(.)
2

8
10
57
554
12

(.)
10
(.)
922
29

(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)

(.)
(.)
(.)
0
0

24
12
51
42
6

75
207
..
97
..

f
f

f

f

f

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

12
4
2
3
(.)

(.)
2
7
..
0

f
f

f

f

f

211

22 Refugees and
armaments

Internally
displaced
people
(thousands)
2003 a, c

HDI rank
51
52
53
54
55

Bahamas
Cuba
Mexico
Trinidad and Tobago
Antigua and Barbuda

Refugees a
By country
By country
of asylum
of origin d
(thousands)
(thousands)
2003
2003

Conventional arms transfers b
(1990 prices)
Exports
Imports
US$
Share e
(US$ millions)
millions
(%)
1994
2003
2003
1999-2003

Total armed forces
Index
Thousands (1985 = 100)
2002
2002

..
0
0
..
..

..
1
6
..
..

..
3
(.)
(.)
..

(.)
..
118
(.)
..

(.)
..
43
(.)
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

1
46
193
3
(.)

180
28
149
129
200

0
368
0
0
0

4
10
12
(.)
(.)

1
67
1
(.)
5

(.)
40
(.)
376
27

2
(.)
(.)
242
(.)

18
6,980
23
(.)
..

(.)
30
(.)
(.)
..

68
..
76
100
12

46
..
104
91
..

0
0
..
0
0

1
1
..
0
(.)

(.)
3
(.)
(.)
2

(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)

(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)
1

..
60
..
..
..

..
1
..
..
..

..
80
..
..
27

..
..
..
..
67

167
(.)
(.)
6
58

(.)
(.)
1
25
..

(.)
(.)
(.)
46
..

(.)
..
..
22
234

(.)
..
..
(.)
2

20
2
82
99
302

..
100
168
52
..

Medium human development
56
57
58
59
60

Bulgaria
Russian Federation
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
Malaysia
Macedonia, TFYR

61
62
63
64
65

Panama
Belarus
Tonga
Mauritius
Albania

66
67
68
69
70

Bosnia and Herzegovina
Suriname
Venezuela
Romania
Ukraine

71
72
73
74
75

Saint Lucia
Brazil
Colombia
Oman
Samoa (Western)

76
77
78
79
80

327
0
0
0
0

f

f

23
0
(.)
2
3

f

f

..
0
2,040
0
..

..
3
(.)
0
..

..
(.)
16
(.)
..

..
225
39
173
..

..
87
48
14
..

..
(.)
..
(.)
..

..
(.)
..
0
..

..
288
158
42
..

..
104
239
143
..

Thailand
Saudi Arabia
Kazakhstan
Jamaica
Lebanon

0
0
0
..
0

119
241
16
..
3

(.)
(.)
4
(.)
19

661
991
(.)
(.)
13

163
487
62
(.)
(.)

5
(.)
(.)
..
(.)

(.)
0
(.)
..
(.)

306
200
60
3
72

130
319
..
133
413

81
82
83
84
85

Fiji
Armenia
Philippines
Maldives
Peru

..
0
0
..
0

..
239
(.)
..
1

(.)
6
(.)
..
2

4
310
71
(.)
121

(.)
(.)
8
(.)
(.)

..
..
..
..
(.)

..
..
..
..
(.)

4
45
106
...
110

130
..
92
..
86

86
87
88
89
90

Turkmenistan
St. Vincent & the Grenadines
Turkey
Paraguay
Jordan

0
..
0
0
0

14
..
2
(.)
1

1
..
147
(.)
1

..
..
1,250
(.)
5

..
..
504
4
258

..
..
61
..
(.)

..
..
(.)
..
0

18
..
515
19
100

..
..
82
129
143

91
92
93
94
95

Azerbaijan
Tunisia
Grenada
China
Dominica

576
0
..
0
..

(.)
(.)
..
299
..

248
2
..
100
..

25
32
..
142
..

(.)
(.)
..
2,548
..

..
..
..
404
..

..
..
..
2
..

72
35
..
2,270
..

..
100
..
58
..

Sri Lanka
Georgia
Dominican Republic
Belize
Ecuador

386
260
..
0
0

(.)
4
..
1
6

81
10
(.)
(.)
(.)

53
(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)

8
(.)
76
(.)
(.)

..
(.)
..
..
..

..
(.)
..
..
..

158
18
25
1
60

731
..
110
183
140

96
97
98
99
100

212

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

22 Refugees and
armaments

Internally
displaced
people
(thousands)
2003 a, c

HDI rank

Refugees a
By country
By country
of asylum
of origin d
(thousands)
(thousands)
2003
2003

101
102
103
104
105

Iran, Islamic Rep. of
Occupied Palestinian Territories
El Salvador
Guyana
Cape Verde

0
0
0
..
..

985
0
(.)
..
..

106
107
108
109
110

Syrian Arab Republic
Uzbekistan
Algeria
Equatorial Guinea
Kyrgyzstan

0
0
0
..
0

4
45
169
..
6

111
112
113
114
115

Indonesia
Viet Nam
Moldova, Rep. of
Bolivia
Honduras

0
0
0
0
0

(.)
15
(.)
1
(.)

116
117
118
119
120

Tajikistan
Mongolia
Nicaragua
South Africa
Egypt

0
0
0
0
0

121
122
123
124
125

Guatemala
Gabon
São Tomé and Principe
Solomon Islands
Morocco

0
0
0
..
0

126
127
128
129
130

Namibia
India
Botswana
Vanuatu
Cambodia

0
0
0
..
0

131
132
133
134
135

Ghana
Myanmar
Papua New Guinea
Bhutan
Lao People’s Dem. Rep.

0
0
0
..
0

136
137
138
139
140
141

Comoros
Swaziland
Bangladesh
Sudan
Nepal
Cameroon

0
0
0
0
0
0

f

f

f
f

f

Total armed forces
Index
Thousands (1985 = 100)
2002
2002

376
5
(.)
(.)
(.)

323
(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)

(.)
..
..
..
..

0
..
..
..
..

520
..
17
2
1

85
..
40
24
16

16
4
4
(.)
2

44
(.)
156
(.)
(.)

15
(.)
513
(.)
9

(.)
510
..
..
76

0
1
..
..
(.)

319
52
137
2
11

79
..
80
105
..

8
331
6
(.)
(.)

559
(.)
2
7
..

333
7
(.)
(.)
..

20
..
(.)
..
..

(.)
..
(.)
..
..

297
484
7
32
8

107
47
..
114
50

59
(.)
4
(.)
1

24
..
..
19
1,976

(.)
..
..
13
504

..
..
(.)
23
(.)

..
..
0
(.)
(.)

6
9
14
60
443

..
28
22
56
100

1
14
0
..
2

4
(.)
(.)
..
1

3
..
..
..
131

(.)
..
..
..
(.)

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

31
5
..
..
196

99
196
..
..
132

20
165
3
..
(.)

1
3
(.)
..
17

3
561
(.)
..
71

5
3,621
(.)
..
(.)

..
(.)
..
..
(.)

..
(.)
..
..
0

9
1,298
9
..
125

..
103
225
..
357

13
141
(.)
114
2

10
3
1
..
(.)

(.)
31
(.)
..
(.)

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

7
444
3
..
29

46
239
97
..
54

(.)
(.)
1
567
1
2

..
(.)
51
(.)
(.)
(.)

..
(.)
(.)
(.)
5
(.)

..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
137
117
51
23

..
..
150
207
204
316

10
8
24
(.)
24

687
3
(.)
(.)
(.)

611
(.)
(.)
(.)
19

(.)
..
..
..
..

(.)
..
..
..
..

620
10
10
2
55

128
264
115
100
275

(.)
(.)
1
(.)
19

(.)
12
4
..
75

23
(.)
30
..
51

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

36
24
67
14
79

88
178
104
64
84

3
0
(.)
27
89

44
0
7
..
0
0
1
20
328
134
59

g

f

f

f
f

f

57
326
4
(.)
(.)

Conventional arms transfers b
(1990 prices)
Exports
Imports
US$
Share e
(US$ millions)
millions
(%)
1994
2003
2003
1999-2003

g

Low human development
142
143
144
145
146

Pakistan
Togo
Congo
Lesotho
Uganda

0
0
0
0
0

147
148
149
150
151

Zimbabwe
Kenya
Yemen
Madagascar
Nigeria

0
0
0
0
0

f

f

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

1,124
12
91
0
231
13
239
62
0
9

f

f

213

22 Refugees and
armaments

Internally
displaced
people
(thousands)
2003 a, c

HDI rank

Refugees a
By country
By country
of asylum
of origin d
(thousands)
(thousands)
2003
2003

Conventional arms transfers b
(1990 prices)
Exports
Imports
US$
Share e
(US$ millions)
millions
(%)
1994
2003
2003
1999-2003

Total armed forces
Index
Thousands (1985 = 100)
2002
2002

152
153
154
155
156

Mauritania
Haiti
Djibouti
Gambia
Eritrea

0
..
0
0
0

(.)
..
27
7
4

26
(.)
(.)
(.)
11

27
..
(.)
..
14

(.)
..
(.)
..
180

..
..
..
..
(.)

..
..
..
..
0

16
..
10
1
172

185
..
327
160
..

157
158
159
160
161

Senegal
Timor-Leste
Rwanda
Guinea
Benin

0
0
0
0
0

21
(.)
37
184
5

8
..
66
1
(.)

1
..
(.)
(.)
(.)

(.)
..
(.)
(.)
6

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

9
..
70
10
5

93
..
1,346
98
102

162
163
164
165
166

Tanzania, U. Rep. of
Côte d’Ivoire
Zambia
Malawi
Angola

0
38
0
0
0

650
76
227
3
13

(.)
47
(.)
(.)
313

2
(.)
(.)
1
96

(.)
22
(.)
(.)
(.)

..
..
..
(.)
(.)

..
..
..
(.)
(.)

27
17
22
5
100

67
129
133
100
202

167
168
169
170
171

Chad
Congo, Dem. Rep. of the
Central African Republic
Ethiopia
Mozambique

0
0
0
0
0

146
234
45
130
(.)

46
428
35
26
(.)

8
(.)
..
(.)
(.)

(.)
(.)
..
(.)
(.)

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

30
81
3
253
11

249
170
111
116
70

172
173
174
175
176
177

Guinea-Bissau
Burundi
Mali
Burkina Faso
Niger
Sierra Leone

0
100
0
0
0
0

8
41
10
(.)
(.)
61

(.)
525
(.)
1
(.)
78

(.)
(.)
(.)
..
(.)
1

(.)
(.)
(.)
..
(.)
(.)

..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..

9
46
7
10
5
13

108
875
151
255
241
419

Developing countries
Least developed countries
Arab States
East Asia and the Pacific
Latin America and the Caribbean
South Asia
Sub-Saharan Africa
Central & Eastern Europe & the CIS
OECD
High-income OECD

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

6,726
2,717
1,074
444
38
2,428
2,740
678
2,580
2,561

T
T
T
T
T
T
T
T
T
T

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

14,203
2,033
2,282
6,012
1,268
2,834
1,283
1,253
5,092
4,112

T
T
T
T
T
T
T
T
T
T

91
174
84
80
94
112
152
19
70
70

High human development
Medium human development
Low human development

..
..
..

2,610 T
3,147 T
3,712 T

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

5,208 T
10,455 T
1,847 T

71
62
148

High income
Middle income
Low income

..
..
..

2,571 T
2,807 T
4,591 T

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

4,444 T
8,411 T
6,191 T

72
52
116

9,970 T

..

..

19,045 T

69

World

5,081

h

19,253 T i

18,679 T i

18,680 T i

a. Data refer to the end of 2003 unless otherwise specified. Provisional data subject to change. b. Data are as of 25 February 2004. Figures are trend indicator values, which are an indicator only of the volume of international arm transfers, not of the actual financial value of such transfers. Published reports of arms transfers provide partial information, as not all transfers are fully reported. The estimates presented are conservative and
may understate actual transfers of conventional weapons. c. Persons who are displaced within their country and to whom the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) extends protection or assistance,
generally pursuant to a special request by a competent organ of the United Nations. A zero indicates that the indicator has a value of zero, is not available or is not applicable. d. The country of origin for many refugees
is unavailable or unreported. These data may therefore be underestimates. e. Calculated using the 1999-2003 totals for all countries and non-state actors with exports of major conventional weapons as defined in SIPRI
2004b. f. Refers to the end of 2002. g. Palestinian refugees under the mandate of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA) in Jordan, Occupied Palestinian Territories, the Syrian Arab Republic or Lebanon are not included. Data refer to the Gaza Strip. h. Data refer to the world aggregate from UNHCR 2004. i. Data refer to the world aggregate from SIPRI 2004b. It includes all countries and non-state actors with transfers of major conventional weapons as defined in SIPRI 2004b.
Source: Columns 1-3: UNHCR 2004; columns 4-6: SIPRI 2004b; column 7: calculated on the basis of data on weapons transfers from SIPRI 2004b; column 8: IISS 2003; column 9: calculated on the basis of data on
armed forces from IISS 2003.

214

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

23 Victims of
crime

. . . PROTECTING PERSONAL SECURITY . . .

People victimized by crime a
(% of total population)
Robbery
Sexual assault e

Year b

Total crime c

Property crime d

Assault

Bribery (corruption) f

Australia
Austria
Belgium
Canada
Denmark

1999
1995
1999
1999
1999

30.1
18.8
21.4
23.8
23.0

13.9
3.1
7.7
10.4
7.6

1.2
0.2
1.0
0.9
0.7

1.0
1.2
0.3
0.8
0.4

2.4
0.8
1.2
2.3
1.4

0.3
0.7
0.3
0.4
0.3

England and Wales
Finland
France
Italy
Japan

1999
1999
1999
1991
1999

26.4
19.1
21.4
24.6
15.2

12.2
4.4
8.7
12.7
3.4

1.2
0.6
1.1
1.3
0.1

0.9
1.1
0.7
0.6
0.1

2.8
2.1
1.4
0.2
0.1

0.1
0.2
1.3
..
(.)

Malta
Netherlands
New Zealand
Northern Ireland
Poland

1996
1999
1991
1999
1999

23.1
25.2
29.4
15.0
22.7

10.9
7.4
14.8
6.2
9.0

0.4
0.8
0.7
0.1
1.8

0.1
0.8
1.3
0.1
0.2

1.1
1.0
2.4
2.1
1.1

4.0
0.4
..
0.2
5.1

Portugal
Scotland
Slovenia
Sweden
Switzerland
United States

1999
1999
2000
1999
1999
1999

15.5
23.2
21.2
24.7
18.2
21.1

7.5
7.6
7.7
8.4
4.5
10.0

1.1
0.7
1.1
0.9
0.7
0.6

0.2
0.3
0.8
1.1
0.6
0.4

0.4
3.0
1.1
1.2
1.0
1.2

1.4
..
2.1
0.1
0.2
0.2

Asunción (Paraguay)
Baku (Azerbaijan)
Beijing (China)
Bishkek (Kyrgyzstan)
Bogotá (Colombia)

1995
1999
1991
1995
1996

34.4
8.3
19.0
27.8
54.6

16.7
2.4
2.2
11.3
27.0

6.3
1.6
0.5
1.6
11.5

1.7
0.0
0.6
2.2
4.8

0.9
0.4
0.6
2.1
2.5

13.3
20.8
..
19.3
19.5

Bratislava (Slovakia)
Bucharest (Romania)
Budapest (Hungary)
Buenos Aires (Argentina)
Cairo (Egypt)

1996
1999
1999
1995
1991

36.0
25.4
32.1
61.1
28.7

20.8
10.8
15.6
30.8
12.1

1.2
1.8
1.8
6.4
2.2

0.4
0.4
0.9
6.4
1.8

0.5
0.6
0.8
2.3
1.1

13.5
19.2
9.8
30.2
..

Dar es Salaam (Tanzania, U. Rep. of)
Gaborone (Botswana)
Jakarta (Indonesia)
Johannesburg (South Africa)
Kampala (Uganda)

1991
1996
1995
1995
1995

..
31.7
20.9
38.0
40.9

23.1
19.7
9.4
18.3
20.6

8.2
2.0
0.7
4.7
2.3

6.1
0.7
1.3
2.7
5.1

1.7
3.2
0.5
4.6
1.7

..
2.8
29.9
6.9
19.5

Kiev (Ukraine)
La Paz (Bolivia)
Manila (Philippines)
Maputo (Mozambique)
Minsk (Belarus)

1999
1995
1995
2001
1999

29.1
39.8
10.6
40.6
23.6

8.9
18.1
3.3
29.3
11.1

2.5
5.8
1.5
7.6
1.4

1.2
1.5
0.1
2.2
1.4

1.5
2.0
0.1
3.2
1.3

16.2
24.4
4.3
30.5
20.6

Moscow (Russian Federation)
Mumbai (India)
New Delhi (India)
Prague (Czech Republic)
Rïga (Latvia)

1999
1995
1995
1999
1999

26.3
31.8
30.5
34.1
26.5

10.9
6.7
6.1
21.6
9.4

2.4
1.3
1.0
0.5
2.8

1.2
3.5
1.7
0.9
0.5

1.1
0.8
0.8
1.1
1.9

16.6
22.9
21.0
5.7
14.3

National

g

Major city

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

215

23 Victims of
crime

People victimized by crime a
(% of total population)
Robbery
Sexual assault e

Year b

Total crime c

Property crime d

Rio de Janeiro (Brazil)
San José (Costa Rica)
Skopje (Macedonia, TFYR)
Sofia (Bulgaria)
Tallinn (Estonia)

1995
1995
1995
1999
1999

44.0
40.4
21.1
27.2
41.2

14.7
21.7
9.4
16.1
22.5

12.2
8.9
1.1
1.5
6.3

7.5
3.5
0.3
0.1
3.3

3.4
1.7
0.7
0.6
3.7

17.1
9.2
7.4
16.4
9.3

Tbjlisi (Georgia)
Tirana (Albania)
Tunis (Tunisia)
Ulaanbaatar (Mongolia)
Vilnius (Lithuania)
Zagreb (Croatia)

1999
1999
1991
1999
1999
1999

23.6
31.7
37.5
41.8
31.0
14.3

11.1
11.2
20.1
20.0
17.8
4.4

1.8
2.9
5.4
4.5
3.2
0.5

0.4
1.2
1.5
1.4
2.0
0.8

0.9
0.7
0.4
2.1
1.4
0.5

16.6
59.1
..
21.3
22.9
9.5

Assault

Bribery (corruption) f

a. Data refer to victimization as reported in the International Crime Victims Survey. b. Surveys were conducted in 1992, 1995, 1996-97 and 2000-01. Data refer to the year preceding the survey. c. Data refer to people
victimized by 1 or more of 11 crimes recorded in the survey: robbery, burglary, attempted burglary, car theft, car vandalism, bicycle theft, sexual assault, theft from car, theft of personal property, assault and threats and
theft of motorcycle or moped. d. Includes car theft, theft from car, burglary with entry and attempted burglary. e. Data refer to women only. f. Data refer to people who have been asked or expected to pay a bribe by a
government official. g. Data refer to 1995.
Source: Columns 1-7: UNODC 2004.

216

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

24 Gender-related
development
index

. . . AND ACHIEVING EQUALITY FOR ALL WOMEN AND MEN

Gender-related
development
index
(GDI)
Rank
Value

HDI rank

Life expectancy
at birth
(years)
2002
Female
Male

Combined gross
enrolment ratio for
primary, secondary and
Estimated
tertiary level schools
earned income
(%)
(PPP US$)
2001/02 b
2002 c
Female
Male
Female
Male

Adult
literacy rate
(% ages 15
and above)
2002 a
Female
Male

HDI rank
minus
GDI rank d

High human development
1
2
3
4
5

Norway
Sweden
Australia
Canada
Netherlands

1
2
3
4
5

0.955
0.946
0.945
0.941
0.938

81.8
82.5
82.0
81.9
81.0

75.9
77.5
76.4
76.6
75.6

..
..
..
..
..

e
e
e
e
e

6
7
8
9
10

Belgium
Iceland
United States
Japan
Ireland

7
6
8
12
14

0.938
0.938
0.936
0.932
0.929

81.8
81.9
79.8
85.0
79.5

75.6
77.6
74.2
77.8
74.3

..
..
..
..
..

e

11
12
13
14
15

Switzerland
United Kingdom
Finland
Austria
Luxembourg

11
9
10
17
16

0.932
0.934
0.933
0.924
0.926

82.3
80.6
81.4
81.4
81.3

75.9
75.6
74.3
75.3
75.0

..
..
..
..
..

e

e
e
e
e

e
e
e
e

16
17
18
19
20

France
Denmark
New Zealand
Germany
Spain

15
13
18
19
20

0.929
0.931
0.924
0.921
0.916

82.7
79.0
80.7
81.1
82.7

75.1
74.1
75.7
75.1
75.8

..
..
..
..
96.9

e

21
22
23
24
25

Italy
Israel
Hong Kong, China (SAR)
Greece
Singapore

21
22
23
25
28

0.914
0.906
0.898
0.894
0.884

81.9
80.9
82.7
80.9
80.2

75.5
77.0
77.2
75.7
75.8

98.1
93.4
89.6
96.1
88.6

e

e

e
e
e
e

l
e
m

26
27
28
29
30

Portugal
Slovenia
Korea, Rep. of
Barbados
Cyprus

24
26
29
27
30

0.894
0.892
0.882
0.884
0.875

79.5
79.7
79.2
79.4
80.5

72.5
72.5
71.7
74.4
75.9

90.3
99.6
96.6
99.7
95.1

31
32
33
34
35

Malta
Czech Republic
Brunei Darussalam
Argentina
Seychelles

31
32
..
36
..

0.866
0.865
..
0.841
..

80.6
78.6
78.8
77.6
..

75.8
72.0
74.1
70.5
..

93.4
..
91.4
97.0
92.3

36
37
38
39
40

Estonia
Poland
Hungary
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Bahrain

33
34
35
..
39

0.852
0.848
0.847
..
0.832

76.7
77.9
75.9
..
75.8

66.3
69.7
67.6
..
72.4

99.8
99.7
99.2
..
84.2

e, m

41
42
43
44
45

Lithuania
Slovakia
Chile
Kuwait
Costa Rica

37
38
40
42
44

0.841
0.840
0.830
0.827
0.823

77.5
77.5
78.9
78.9
80.5

67.4
69.6
72.9
74.8
75.7

99.6
99.7
95.6
81.0
95.9

e, m

46
47
48
49
50

Uruguay
Qatar
Croatia
United Arab Emirates
Latvia

41
..
43
..
45

0.829
..
0.827
..
0.823

78.8
75.3
78.0
77.3
76.1

71.5
70.4
70.2
73.2
65.4

98.1
82.3
97.1
80.7
99.7

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

e
e, l
e
m

e
m

m

e, l
e

e, m
m

m, p
m

e, m

..
..
..
..
..

e

..
..
..
..
..

e

..
..
..
..
..

e

..
..
..
..
98.7

e

98.9
97.3
96.9
98.6
96.6

e

95.2
99.7
99.2
99.7
98.6

e

91.8
..
96.3
97.0
91.4

e
e
e
e

e
e
e
e

e
e
e
e

e
e
e
e

l
e
m

e
e, l
e
m

e
m

m

99.8
99.8
99.5
..
91.5

e, m

99.6
99.7
95.8
84.7
95.7

e, m

97.3
84.9
99.3
75.6
99.8

e, l
e

e, m
m

m, p
e, m

e, m

102
124
114
96
99

f, g

115
95
96
83
94

f, g

86
119
111
92
75

g

93
99
107
88
95

g

84
94
70
88
75

g

97
94
85
93
75

g

77
79
75
98
86

g

101
93
89
111
82

f, h
f, h
g
g

g
h
h
g

f, g
f, g
g
g, i

k
f, h
h
h

g
k, n

g
h
g
g

h

h

f, g
h
h
f, g

93
75
79
81
70

g

90
84
74
72
92

h

h
g
k

g

94
104
111
93
100

g

107
86
89
85
87

f, g

90
107
102
91
74

g

90
92
96
89
89

g

81
89
73
84
76

g

90
86
98
84
74

g

77
78
72
90
85

g

92
87
84
85
77

g

87
73
80
71
69

g

81
79
72
65
83

h

f, h
f, h
g
f, g

g
h
h
g

f, g
f, g
g
g, i

k
h
h
h

g
k, n

g
h
g
g

h

h

h
h
g

h
g
k

g

31,356
23,781
23,643
22,964
20,358

42,340
28,700
33,259
36,299
38,266

0
0
0
0
0

18,528
22,716
27,338
16,977
21,056

37,180
36,043
43,797
37,208
52,008

-1
1
0
-3
-4

20,459
19,807
21,645
15,410
33,517

40,769
32,984
30,970
43,169
88,803

0
3
3
-3
-1

19,923
26,074
18,168
18,763
13,209

33,950
36,161
26,481
35,885
29,971

1
4
0
0
0

16,702
14,201
18,805
10,892
15,822

36,959
26,636
33,776
25,601
31,927

0
0
0
-1
-3

13,084
14,084
10,747
11,634
11,223

24,373
22,832
23,226
19,116
23,916

2
1
-1
2
0

o

j

o

9,654
11,322
..
5,662
..

26,160
20,370
..
15,431
..

0
0
..
-3
..

9,777
8,120
10,307
..
7,961

15,571
13,149
17,465
..
23,505

1
1
1
..
-2

8,419
10,127
5,442
7,116
4,698

12,518
15,617
14,256
20,979
12,197

1
1
0
-1
-2

5,367
..
7,453
..
7,685

10,304
..
13,374
..
11,085

2
..
1
..
0

217

24 Gender-related
development
index
Gender-related
development
index
(GDI)
Rank
Value

HDI rank
51
52
53
54
55

Bahamas
Cuba
Mexico
Trinidad and Tobago
Antigua and Barbuda

Life expectancy
at birth
(years)
2002
Female
Male

Combined gross
enrolment ratio for
primary, secondary and
Estimated
tertiary level schools
earned income
(%)
(PPP US$)
2001/02 b
2002 c
Female
Male
Female
Male

Adult
literacy rate
(% ages 15
and above)
2002 a
Female
Male

46
..
50
47
..

0.813
..
0.792
0.795
..

70.4
78.6
76.3
74.5
..

63.9
74.7
70.3
68.5
..

96.3
96.8
88.7
97.9
..

l

m

94.6
97.0
92.6
99.0
..

l

99.1
99.7
91.8
92.0
..

e

m
e

77
78
74
65
..

k, n

h

72
77
73
63
..

k, n

75
85
93
69
70

g

71
86
82
70
67

k

h

HDI rank
minus
GDI rank d

13,375
..
4,915
5,916
..

20,700
..
12,967
13,095
..

0
..
-3
1
..

5,719
6,508
..
5,219
4,599

8,627
10,189
..
13,157
8,293

1
1
..
-1
..

3,958
4,405
..
5,827
3,442

7,847
6,765
..
15,897
6,185

-1
2
..
-1
1

..
..
3,125
4,837
3,429

..
..
7,550
8,311
6,493

..
..
-2
1
1

..
4,594
4,429
4,056
..

..
10,879
8,420
18,239
..

..
-1
1
-7
..

5,284
3,825
4,247
3,169
2,552

8,664
18,616
7,156
4,783
8,336

1
-9
1
3
2

2,838
2,564
3,144
..
2,105

7,855
3,700
5,326
..
7,875

-2
3
3
..
-4

Medium human development
56
57
58
59
60

Bulgaria
Russian Federation
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
Malaysia
Macedonia, TFYR

48
49
..
52
..

0.795
0.794
..
0.786
..

74.6
73.0
75.3
75.6
75.7

67.4
60.7
70.7
70.7
71.3

98.1
99.5
70.7
85.4
..

61
62
63
64
65

Panama
Belarus
Tonga
Mauritius
Albania

53
51
..
55
54

0.785
0.789
..
0.775
0.778

77.3
75.2
69.0
75.7
76.6

72.2
64.7
67.9
68.3
70.8

91.7
99.6
98.9
80.5
98.3

66
67
68
69
70

Bosnia and Herzegovina
Suriname
Venezuela
Romania
Ukraine

..
..
58
56
57

..
..
0.770
0.775
0.773

76.6
73.6
76.6
74.2
74.6

71.2
68.4
70.8
67.0
64.5

91.1
..
92.7
96.3
99.5

71
72
73
74
75

Saint Lucia
Brazil
Colombia
Oman
Samoa (Western)

..
60
59
68
..

..
0.768
0.770
0.747
..

74.0
72.5
75.2
74.3
73.3

70.7
63.9
69.0
70.9
66.8

..
86.5
92.2
65.4
98.4

76
77
78
79
80

Thailand
Saudi Arabia
Kazakhstan
Jamaica
Lebanon

61
72
63
62
64

0.766
0.739
0.761
0.762
0.755

73.4
73.6
71.8
77.7
75.0

65.2
71.0
60.7
73.6
71.8

90.5
69.5
99.2
91.4
81.0

m

81
82
83
84
85

Fiji
Armenia
Philippines
Maldives
Peru

69
65
66
..
74

0.747
0.752
0.751
..
0.736

71.4
75.5
71.9
66.8
72.3

68.0
68.9
67.9
67.7
67.2

91.4
99.2
92.7
97.2
80.3

m, p

m, p

86
87
88
89
90

Turkmenistan
St. Vincent & the Grenadines
Turkey
Paraguay
Jordan

67
..
70
75
76

0.748
..
0.746
0.736
0.734

70.3
75.5
73.1
73.0
72.4

63.7
72.5
67.9
68.5
69.6

98.3
..
78.5
90.2
85.9

91
92
93
94
95

Azerbaijan
Tunisia
Grenada
China
Dominica

..
77
..
71
..

..
0.734
..
0.741
..

75.4
74.8
..
73.2
..

68.6
70.7
..
68.8
..

..
63.1
..
86.5
..

96
97
98
99
100

218

Sri Lanka
Georgia
Dominican Republic
Belize
Ecuador

73
..
78
80
79

0.738
..
0.728
0.718
0.721

75.8
77.5
69.2
73.1
73.4

69.8
69.4
64.4
70.0
68.2

89.6
..
84.4
77.1
89.7

e

m

e
m
m
m

m
e

m

e

l

e, m
m

q

m
q

m

m
m

92.9
99.8
98.8
88.2
99.2
98.4
..
93.5
98.4
99.8
..
86.2
92.1
82.0
98.9

e

m

e
m
m
e, m

m
e

m

94.9
84.1
99.7
83.8
92.4

m

94.5
99.7
92.5
97.3
91.3

m, p

99.3
..
94.4
93.1
95.5

e, m, p

..
83.1
..
95.1
..
94.7
..
84.3
76.7
92.3

e

l

e, m
m

q

m
q

m

m
m

77
92
100
72
70

g

75
90
83
68
70

k

..
79
74
70
86
77
94
70
63
71

h
f, h
h
g

g

h

g

h

72
57
82
78
79

g

73
75
82
78
88

h

81
66
62
72
77

k, n

67
75
57
64
75
66
70
81
72
71

h

h

h

h
h
h

h
g
k
g
r

h
g
g, s

..
69
69
67
83
70
90
67
62
68

h
h
h
g

g

h

g

h

74
58
80
72
77

g

73
69
81
78
88

h

81
63
74
72
76

k, n

70
74
73
69
72
64
68
73
71
73

h

h

h

h
h
h

h
g
k
g
r

h
g
g, s

3,274
..
4,757
2,175
1,896

o

5,212
..
7,873
6,641
6,118

o

4
..
2
-2
-2

2,322
3,615
..
3,571
..

4,044
9,933
..
5,435
..

..
-2
..
5
..

2,570
1,325
3,491
2,376
1,656

4,523
3,283
9,694
9,799
5,491

4
..
0
-1
1

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

24 Gender-related
development
index
Gender-related
development
index
(GDI)
Rank
Value

HDI rank

Life expectancy
at birth
(years)
2002
Female
Male

101
102
103
104
105

Iran, Islamic Rep. of
Occupied Palestinian Territories
El Salvador
Guyana
Cape Verde

82
..
84
81
83

0.713
..
0.709
0.715
0.709

71.7
73.9
73.6
66.4
72.7

68.8
70.7
67.6
60.1
66.9

70.4
..
77.1
98.2
68.0

106
107
108
109
110

Syrian Arab Republic
Uzbekistan
Algeria
Equatorial Guinea
Kyrgyzstan

88
85
89
86
..

0.689
0.705
0.688
0.691
..

73.0
72.4
71.1
50.5
72.2

70.5
66.7
68.0
47.7
64.6

74.2
98.9
59.6
76.0
..

111
112
113
114
115

Indonesia
Viet Nam
Moldova, Rep. of
Bolivia
Honduras

90
87
91
92
95

0.685
0.689
0.678
0.674
0.662

68.6
71.4
72.1
65.8
71.4

64.6
66.7
65.3
61.6
66.5

83.4
86.9
98.6
80.7
80.2

116
117
118
119
120

Tajikistan
Mongolia
Nicaragua
South Africa
Egypt

121
122
123
124
125

Combined gross
enrolment ratio for
primary, secondary and
Estimated
tertiary level schools
earned income
(%)
(PPP US$)
2001/02 b
2002 c
Female
Male
Female
Male

Adult
literacy rate
(% ages 15
and above)
2002 a
Female
Male

93
94
97
96
99

0.668
0.664
0.660
0.661
0.634

71.3
65.7
71.8
51.9
70.8

66.0
61.7
67.1
46.0
66.6

99.3
97.5
76.6
85.3
43.6

Guatemala
Gabon
São Tomé and Principe
Solomon Islands
Morocco

98
..
..
..
100

0.635
..
..
..
0.604

68.7
57.6
72.7
70.5
70.3

62.8
55.7
66.9
67.8
66.6

62.5
..
..
..
38.3

126
127
128
129
130

Namibia
India
Botswana
Vanuatu
Cambodia

101
103
102
..
105

0.602
0.572
0.581
..
0.557

46.8
64.4
42.3
70.4
59.5

43.8
63.1
40.4
67.4
55.2

82.8
46.4
81.5
..
59.3

131
132
133
134
135

Ghana
Myanmar
Papua New Guinea
Bhutan
Lao People’s Dem. Rep.

104
..
106
..
107

0.564
..
0.536
..
0.528

59.3
60.1
58.5
64.3
55.6

56.4
54.5
56.6
61.8
53.1

65.9
81.4
57.7
..
55.5

136
137
138
139
140
141

Comoros
Swaziland
Bangladesh
Sudan
Nepal
Cameroon

108
109
110
115
116
111

0.510
0.505
0.499
0.485
0.484
0.491

62.0
36.9
61.5
57.0
59.4
48.1

59.2
34.4
60.7
54.1
59.9
45.6

49.1
80.0
31.4
49.1
26.4
59.8

l, p, q

l

l

m, p

m
m
e, m
m
q

m, p

83.5
..
82.4
99.0
85.4
91.0
99.6
78.0
92.8
..
92.5
93.9
99.6
93.1
79.8
99.7
98.0
76.8
86.7
67.2

l, p, q

l

e

l

m, p
e
m
m
e, m
m
q

m, p

77.3
..
..
..
63.3
m

l

q

83.8
69.0
76.1
..
80.8
81.9
89.2
71.1
..
77.4
63.5
82.0
50.3
70.8
61.6
77.0

65
81
65
75
72
57
75
69
52
81
64
61
63
82
61
67
76
66
77
72
52
70
59
..
52

m

l

q

72
48
71
58
53
43
48
40
..
53
41
59
54
34
55
51

k
h

h

h

h
g, s

h

k, n
h
k

g

g

g

h

72
78
66
75
73
62
78
72
64
80
66
67
60
89
64
80
64
63
78
80
59
74
64
..
61
70
62
70
59
64
50
47
42
..
65
50
62
53
39
67
61

k
h

h

h

h
g, s

h

k, n
h
k

g

g

g

h

HDI rank
minus
GDI rank d

2,835
..
2,602
2,439
3,229

9,946
..
7,269
6,217
7,034

-1
..
-2
2
1

1,549
1,305
2,684
16,852
1,269

5,496
1,983
8,794
42,304
1,944

-3
1
-2
2
..

o

o

2,138
1,888
1,168
1,559
1,402

4,161
2,723
1,788
3,463
3,792

-1
3
0
0
-2

759
1,316
1,520
6,371
1,963

1,225
1,955
3,436
14,202
5,216

1
1
-1
1
-1

2,007
4,937
..
1,239
2,153

6,092
8,351
..
1,786
5,354

1
..
..
..
0

4,262
1,442
5,353
..
1,622

8,402
3,820
10,550
..
2,117

0
-1
1
..
-1

1,802
..
1,586
..
1,358

2,419
..
2,748
..
2,082

1
..
0
..
0

950
2,259
1,150
867
891
1,235

1,699
7,227
2,035
2,752
1,776
2,787

0
0
0
-4
-4
2

915
941
707
1,357
1,088

2,789
2,004
1,273
3,578
1,651

-6
-4
4
0
5

Low human development
142
143
144
145
146

Pakistan
Togo
Congo
Lesotho
Uganda

120
119
112
117
113

0.471
0.477
0.488
0.483
0.487

60.7
51.4
49.9
39.0
46.4

61.0
48.3
46.6
33.3
44.9

28.5
45.4
77.1
90.3
59.2

147
148
149
150
151

Zimbabwe
Kenya
Yemen
Madagascar
Nigeria

118
114
126
121
122

0.482
0.486
0.436
0.462
0.458

33.5
46.4
60.9
54.6
52.0

34.3
44.0
58.7
52.3
51.2

86.3
78.5
28.5
60.6
59.4

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

m, p

q

l

53.4
74.3
88.9
73.7
78.8
93.8
90.0
69.5
74.2
74.4

m, p

q

l

31
55
44
66
68

g

57
52
37
44
41

h

h

g

k, n

43
78
52
64
73

g

60
54
66
46
49

h

h

g

k, n

1,757
962
387
534
562

o

3,059
1,067
1,274
906
1,322

o

1
6
-5
1
1

219

24 Gender-related
development
index
Gender-related
development
index
(GDI)
Rank
Value

HDI rank

Life expectancy
at birth
(years)
2002
Female
Male

Combined gross
enrolment ratio for
primary, secondary and
Estimated
tertiary level schools
earned income
(%)
(PPP US$)
2001/02 b
2002 c
Female
Male
Female
Male

Adult
literacy rate
(% ages 15
and above)
2002 a
Female
Male

152
153
154
155
156

Mauritania
Haiti
Djibouti
Gambia
Eritrea

124
123
..
125
127

0.456
0.458
..
0.446
0.431

53.9
49.9
47.0
55.4
54.2

50.7
48.8
44.8
52.5
51.1

31.3
50.0
55.5
30.9
45.6

157
158
159
160
161

Senegal
Timor-Leste
Rwanda
Guinea
Benin

128
..
129
..
130

0.429
..
0.423
..
0.406

54.9
50.2
39.4
49.3
53.1

50.6
48.5
38.4
48.6
48.5

29.7
..
63.4
..
25.5

162
163
164
165
166

Tanzania, U. Rep. of
Côte d’Ivoire
Zambia
Malawi
Angola

131
132
133
134
..

0.401
0.379
0.375
0.374
..

44.4
41.5
32.5
38.2
41.5

42.7
40.9
32.9
37.5
38.8

69.2
38.4
73.8
48.7
..

167
168
169
170
171

Chad
Congo, Dem. Rep. of the
Central African Republic
Ethiopia
Mozambique

135
136
138
137
139

0.368
0.355
0.345
0.346
0.339

45.7
42.4
41.0
46.4
40.0

43.6
40.4
38.7
44.6
36.9

37.5
51.8
33.5
33.8
31.4

172
173
174
175
176
177

Guinea-Bissau
Burundi
Mali
Burkina Faso
Niger
Sierra Leone

141
140
142
143
144
..

0.329
0.337
0.309
0.291
0.278
..

46.8
41.3
49.0
46.3
46.3
35.6

43.7
40.2
47.9
45.1
45.7
33.1

24.7
43.6
11.9
8.1
9.3
..

l
l
l

51.5
53.8
76.1
45.0
68.2

l
l
l

49.0
..
75.3
..
54.8
l

l
q

l

m, p
m, p

85.2
60.3
86.3
75.5
..
54.5
74.2
64.7
49.2
62.3
55.2
57.7
26.7
18.5
25.1
..

l

l
q

l

m, p
m, p

42
51
20
41
28

k, n

h

35
..
50
21
41

h

31
34
43
71
27

g

25
24
24
28
35

g

29
29
21
18
16
38

k

r
h

h
k

r, s

r
h

g

46
53
28
49
39

k, n

h

41
..
56
37
64

h

32
50
47
77
32

g

44
30
38
41
46

g

45
38
31
26
23
52

k

r
h

h
k

r, s

r
h

g

HDI rank
minus
GDI rank d

1,581
1,170
..
1,263
654

2,840
2,089
..
2,127
1,266

0
2
..
1
0

1,140
..
968
1,569
876

2,074
..
1,570
2,317
1,268

0
..
0
..
0

467
818
571
427
1,627

660
2,222
1,041
626
2,626

0
0
0
0
..

760
467
889
516
840

1,284
846
1,469
1,008
1,265

0
0
-1
1
0

465
561
635
855
575
337

959
794
1,044
1,215
1,005
815

-1
1
0
0
0
..

a. Data refer to estimates produced by UNESCO Institute for Statistics in July 2002, unless otherwise specified. Due to differences in methodology and timeliness of underlying data, comparisons across countries and over
time should be made with caution. b. Data refer to the 2001/02 school year. Data for some countries may refer to national or UNESCO Institute for Statistics estimates. For details, see http://www.uis.unesco.org/. Because
data are from different sources, comparisons across countries should be made with caution. c. Because of the lack of gender-disaggregated income data, female and male earned income are crudely estimated on the basis
of data on the ratio of the female non-agricultural wage to the male non-agricultural wage, the female and male shares of the economically active population, the total female and male population and GDP per capita
(PPP US$) (see technical note 1). Estimates are based on data for the most recent year available during 1991-2000, unless otherwise specified. d. The HDI ranks used in this column are those recalculated for the 144 countries with a GDI value. A positive figure indicates that the GDI rank is higher than the HDI rank, a negative the opposite. e. For purposes of calculating the GDI, a value of 99.0% was applied. f. For purposes of calculating the GDI, a value of 100% was applied. g. Data refer to the 2000/01 school year. h. Preliminary UNESCO Institute for Statistics estimate, subject to further revision. i. The ratio is an underestimate, as many secondary
and tertiary students pursue their studies in nearby countries (see box to table 1). j. For purposes of calculating the GDI, a value of $40,000 (PPP US$) was applied. k. Data refer to the 1999/2000 school year. l. UNESCO
Institute for Statistics 2003a. m. Census data. n. Data provided by the UNESCO Institute for Statistics for Human Development Report 2001 (see UNESCO Institute for Statistics 2001). o. Calculated on the basis of GDP
per capita (PPP US$) for 2000. p. Data refer to a year between 1995 and 1999. q. Survey data. r. Data refer to the 1998/99 school year. s. UNESCO Institute for Statistics 2003b.
Source: Column 1: determined on the basis of the GDI values in column 2; column 2: calculated on the basis of data in columns 3-10; see technical note 1 for details; columns 3 and 4: UN 2003; columns 5 and 6:
UNESCO Institute for Statistics 2004a, unless otherwise noted; columns 7 and 8: UNESCO Institute for Statistics 2004c, unless otherwise noted; columns 9 and 10: calculated on the basis of data on GDP per capita
(PPP US$) from World Bank 2004f; data on wages from ILO 2004b; data on the economically active population from ILO 2002; and data on population from UN 2003, unless otherwise noted; column 11: calculated on the basis of the recalculated HDI ranks and GDI ranks in column 1.

GDI ranks for
144 countries
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22

220

Norway
Sweden
Australia
Canada
Netherlands
Iceland
Belgium
United States
United Kingdom
Finland
Switzerland
Japan
Denmark
Ireland
France
Luxembourg
Austria
New Zealand
Germany
Spain
Italy
Israel

23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47

Hong Kong, China (SAR)
Portugal
Greece
Slovenia
Barbados
Singapore
Korea, Rep. of
Cyprus
Malta
Czech Republic
Estonia
Poland
Hungary
Argentina
Lithuania
Slovakia
Bahrain
Chile
Uruguay
Kuwait
Croatia
Costa Rica
Latvia
Bahamas
Trinidad and Tobago

48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72

Bulgaria
Russian Federation
Mexico
Belarus
Malaysia
Panama
Albania
Mauritius
Romania
Ukraine
Venezuela
Colombia
Brazil
Thailand
Jamaica
Kazakhstan
Lebanon
Armenia
Philippines
Turkmenistan
Oman
Fiji
Turkey
China
Saudi Arabia

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97

Sri Lanka
Peru
Paraguay
Jordan
Tunisia
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Belize
Guyana
Iran, Islamic Rep. of
Cape Verde
El Salvador
Uzbekistan
Equatorial Guinea
Viet Nam
Syrian Arab Republic
Algeria
Indonesia
Moldova, Rep. of
Bolivia
Tajikistan
Mongolia
Honduras
South Africa
Nicaragua

98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122

Guatemala
Egypt
Morocco
Namibia
Botswana
India
Ghana
Cambodia
Papua New Guinea
Lao People’s Dem. Rep.
Comoros
Swaziland
Bangladesh
Cameroon
Congo
Uganda
Kenya
Sudan
Nepal
Lesotho
Zimbabwe
Togo
Pakistan
Madagascar
Nigeria

123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144

Haiti
Mauritania
Gambia
Yemen
Eritrea
Senegal
Rwanda
Benin
Tanzania, U. Rep. of
Côte d’Ivoire
Zambia
Malawi
Chad
Congo, Dem. Rep. of the
Ethiopia
Central African Republic
Mozambique
Burundi
Guinea-Bissau
Mali
Burkina Faso
Niger

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

. . . AND ACHIEVING EQUALITY FOR ALL WOMEN AND MEN

25 Gender
empowerment
measure

Gender empowerment
measure
(GEM)
Rank
Value

HDI rank

MDG
Seats in parliament
held by women a
(% of total)

Female
legislators,
senior officials
and managers b
(% of total)

Female
professional and
technical workers b
(% of total)

Ratio of
estimated
female to
male earned
income c

High human development
1
2
3
4
5

Norway
Sweden
Australia
Canada
Netherlands

1
2
8
10
5

0.908
0.854
0.806
0.787
0.817

36.4
45.3
26.5
23.6
35.1

28
31
35
34
26

49
50
55
54
48

0.74
0.83
0.71
0.63
0.53

6
7
8
9
10

Belgium
Iceland
United States
Japan
Ireland

7
6
14
38
16

0.808
0.816
0.769
0.531
0.710

33.9
30.2
14.0
9.9
14.2

30
29
46
10
28

48
55
55
46
52

0.50
0.63
0.62
0.46
0.40

11
12
13
14
15

Switzerland
United Kingdom
Finland
Austria
Luxembourg

12
18
4
13
..

0.771
0.698
0.820
0.770
..

24.8
17.3
37.5
30.6
16.7

28
31
28
29
..

45
44
52
48
..

0.50
0.60
0.70
0.36
0.38

16
17
18
19
20

France
Denmark
New Zealand
Germany
Spain

..
3
11
9
15

..
0.847
0.772
0.804
0.716

11.7
38.0
28.3
31.4
26.6

..
22
38
34
31

..
51
52
49
46

0.59
0.72
0.69
0.52
0.44

21
22
23
24
25

Italy
Israel
Hong Kong, China (SAR)
Greece
Singapore

32
25
..
43
20

0.583
0.614
..
0.523
0.648

10.3
15.0
..
8.7
16.0

21
26
26
26
26

45
54
40
48
43

0.45
0.53
0.56
0.43
0.50

26
27
28
29
30

Portugal
Slovenia
Korea, Rep. of
Barbados
Cyprus

23
31
68
24
49

0.644
0.584
0.377
0.634
0.497

19.1
12.2
5.9
17.6
10.7

29
29
5
40
14

51
55
34
55
46

0.54
0.62
0.46
0.61
0.47

31
32
33
34
35

Malta
Czech Republic
Brunei Darussalam
Argentina
Seychelles

53
30
..
21
..

0.480
0.586
..
0.645
..

9.2
15.7
–
31.3
29.4

17
26
..
26
..

40
52
..
53
..

0.37
0.56
..
0.37
..

36
37
38
39
40

Estonia
Poland
Hungary
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Bahrain

28
27
39
..
66

0.592
0.606
0.529
..
0.395

18.8
20.7
9.8
13.3
7.5

37
34
35
..
10

68
60
62
..
19

0.63
0.62
0.59
..
0.34

41
42
43
44
45

Lithuania
Slovakia
Chile
Kuwait
Costa Rica

47
26
58
..
19

0.508
0.607
0.460
..
0.664

10.6
19.3
10.1
0.0
35.1

44
31
21
..
53

70
61
52
..
28

0.67
0.65
0.38
0.34
0.39

46
47
48
49
50

Uruguay
Qatar
Croatia
United Arab Emirates
Latvia

46
..
36
..
29

0.511
..
0.560
..
0.591

11.5
–
17.8
0.0
21.0

37
..
26
8
37

52
..
51
25
66

0.52
..
0.56
..
0.69

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

d

e

d

221

25 Gender
empowerment
measure

Gender empowerment
measure
(GEM)
Rank
Value

HDI rank
51
52
53
54
55

Bahamas
Cuba
Mexico
Trinidad and Tobago
Antigua and Barbuda

MDG
Seats in parliament
held by women a
(% of total)

Female
legislators,
senior officials
and managers b
(% of total)

Female
professional and
technical workers b
(% of total)

Ratio of
estimated
female to
male earned
income c

17
..
34
22
..

0.699
..
0.563
0.644
..

26.8
36.0
21.2
25.4
8.3

31
..
25
40
..

58
..
40
51
..

0.65
..
0.38
0.45
..

Medium human development
56
57
58
59
60

Bulgaria
Russian Federation
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
Malaysia
Macedonia, TFYR

..
55
..
44
45

..
0.467
..
0.519
0.517

26.3
8.0
..
16.3
18.3

..
37
..
20
19

..
64
..
45
51

0.66
0.64
..
0.40
0.55

61
62
63
64
65

Panama
Belarus
Tonga
Mauritius
Albania

52
..
..
..
..

0.486
..
..
..
..

9.9
18.4
0.0
5.7
5.7

38
..
..
..
..

49
..
..
..
..

0.50
0.65
..
0.37
0.56

66
67
68
69
70

Bosnia and Herzegovina
Suriname
Venezuela
Romania
Ukraine

..
..
61
56
65

..
..
0.444
0.465
0.411

12.3
17.6
9.7
9.3
5.3

..
28
27
31
38

..
51
61
56
64

..
..
0.41
0.58
0.53

71
72
73
74
75

Saint Lucia
Brazil
Colombia
Oman
Samoa (Western)

..
..
48
..
..

..
..
0.498
..
..

20.7
9.1
10.8
–
6.1

..
..
38
..
..

..
62
50
..
..

..
0.42
0.53
0.22
..

76
77
78
79
80

Thailand
Saudi Arabia
Kazakhstan
Jamaica
Lebanon

57
77
..
..
..

0.461
0.207
..
..
..

9.6
0.0
8.6
13.6
2.3

27
1
..
..
..

55
31
..
..
..

0.61
0.21
0.59
0.66
0.31

81
82
83
84
85

Fiji
Armenia
Philippines
Maldives
Peru

71
..
37
..
42

0.335
..
0.542
..
0.524

6.0
4.6
17.2
6.0
18.3

51
..
58
15
27

9
..
62
40
44

0.36
0.69
0.59
..
0.27

86
87
88
89
90

Turkmenistan
St. Vincent & the Grenadines
Turkey
Paraguay
Jordan

..
..
73
63
..

..
..
0.290
0.417
..

26.0
22.7
4.4
8.8
7.9

..
..
7
23
..

..
..
31
54
..

0.63
..
0.60
0.33
0.31

91
92
93
94
95

Azerbaijan
Tunisia
Grenada
China
Dominica

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

10.5
11.5
28.6
20.2
18.8

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

0.57
0.36
..
0.66
..

74
67
40
59
50

0.276
0.387
0.527
0.455
0.490

4.4
7.2
15.4
9.3
16.0

4
28
31
31
25

49
64
49
52
44

0.57
0.40
0.36
0.24
0.30

96
97
98
99
100

222

Sri Lanka
Georgia
Dominican Republic
Belize
Ecuador

d

f

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

25 Gender
empowerment
measure

Gender empowerment
measure
(GEM)
Rank
Value

HDI rank
101
102
103
104
105

Iran, Islamic Rep. of
Occupied Palestinian Territories
El Salvador
Guyana
Cape Verde

106
107
108
109
110

Syrian Arab Republic
Uzbekistan
Algeria
Equatorial Guinea
Kyrgyzstan

111
112
113
114
115

MDG
Seats in parliament
held by women a
(% of total)

Female
legislators,
senior officials
and managers b
(% of total)

Female
professional and
technical workers b
(% of total)

Ratio of
estimated
female to
male earned
income c

72
..
60
..
..

0.313
..
0.448
..
..

4.1
..
10.7
20.0
11.1

13
10
26
..
..

33
33
46
..
..

0.29
..
0.36
0.39
0.46

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

12.0
7.2
..
5.0
6.7

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

0.28
0.66
0.31
0.40
0.65

Indonesia
Viet Nam
Moldova, Rep. of
Bolivia
Honduras

..
..
54
41
70

..
..
0.469
0.524
0.355

8.0
27.3
12.9
17.8
5.5

..
..
40
36
22

..
..
64
40
36

0.51
0.69
0.65
0.45
0.37

116
117
118
119
120

Tajikistan
Mongolia
Nicaragua
South Africa
Egypt

..
62
..
..
75

..
0.429
..
..
0.266

12.4
10.5
20.7
27.9
3.6

..
30
..
..
9

..
66
..
..
30

0.62
0.67
0.44
0.45
0.38

121
122
123
124
125

Guatemala
Gabon
São Tomé and Principe
Solomon Islands
Morocco

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

8.2
11.0
9.1
0.0
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

0.33
0.59
..
0.69
0.40

126
127
128
129
130

Namibia
India
Botswana
Vanuatu
Cambodia

33
..
35
..
69

0.572
..
0.562
..
0.364

21.4
9.3
17.0
1.9
10.9

30
..
35
..
14

55
..
52
..
33

0.51
0.38
0.51
..
0.77

131
132
133
134
135

Ghana
Myanmar
Papua New Guinea
Bhutan
Lao People’s Dem. Rep.

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

9.0
..
0.9
9.3
22.9

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

0.75
..
0.58
..
0.65

136
137
138
139
140
141

Comoros
Swaziland
Bangladesh
Sudan
Nepal
Cameroon

..
51
76
..
..
..

..
0.487
0.218
..
..
..

–
16.8
2.0
9.7
..
8.9

..
24
8
..
..
..

..
61
25
..
..
..

0.56
0.31
0.56
0.32
0.50
0.44

g

h

i

Low human development
142
143
144
145
146

Pakistan
Togo
Congo
Lesotho
Uganda

64
..
..
..
..

0.416
..
..
..
..

20.8
7.4
10.6
17.0
24.7

9
..
..
..
..

26
..
..
..
..

0.33
0.47
0.56
0.38
0.66

147
148
149
150
151

Zimbabwe
Kenya
Yemen
Madagascar
Nigeria

..
..
78
..
..

..
..
0.123
..
..

10.0
7.1
0.3
6.4
5.8

..
..
4
..
..

..
..
15
..
..

0.57
0.90
0.30
0.59
0.43

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

223

25 Gender
empowerment
measure

Gender empowerment
measure
(GEM)
Rank
Value

HDI rank

MDG
Seats in parliament
held by women a
(% of total)

Female
legislators,
senior officials
and managers b
(% of total)

Female
professional and
technical workers b
(% of total)

Ratio of
estimated
female to
male earned
income c

152
153
154
155
156

Mauritania
Haiti
Djibouti
Gambia
Eritrea

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

4.4
9.1
10.8
13.2
22.0

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

0.56
0.56
..
0.59
0.52

157
158
159
160
161

Senegal
Timor-Leste
Rwanda
Guinea
Benin

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

19.2
26.1
45.0
19.3
7.2

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

0.55
..
0.62
0.68
0.69

162
163
164
165
166

Tanzania, U. Rep. of
Côte d’Ivoire
Zambia
Malawi
Angola

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

21.4
8.5
12.0
9.3
15.5

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

0.71
0.37
0.55
0.68
0.62

167
168
169
170
171

Chad
Congo, Dem. Rep. of the
Central African Republic
Ethiopia
Mozambique

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

5.8
7.4
–
7.8
30.0

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

0.59
0.55
0.60
0.51
0.66

172
173
174
175
176
177

Guinea-Bissau
Burundi
Mali
Burkina Faso
Niger
Sierra Leone

..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..

–
18.5
10.2
11.7
1.2
14.5

..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..

0.49
0.71
0.61
0.70
0.57
0.41

i

i

a. Data are as of 1 March 2004. Where there are lower and upper houses, data refer to the weighted average of women’s shares of seats in both houses. b. Data refer to the most recent year available during the period
1992-2001. Estimates for countries that have implemented the recent International Standard Classification of Occupations (ISCO-88) are not strictly comparable with those for countries using the previous classification
(ISCO-68). c. Calculated on the basis of data in columns 9 and 10 in table 24. Estimates are based on data for the most recent year available during the period 1991-2001. d. Brunei Darussalam, Oman and Qatar have
never had a parliament. e. Women were allowed to vote in the referendum of 14-15 February 2001, which approved the National Action Charter. Subsequently, women exercised their full political rights as both voters
and candidates in the 2002 national elections. f. Elections were held in November 2003. However, on 25 November 2003, the election results were annuled by the Supreme Court of Georgia. New elections will be held
in March 2004. g. The figures on the distribution of seats do not include the 36 upper house special rotation delegates appointed on an ad hoc basis, and the percentages given are therefore calculated on the basis of
lower house seats and the 54 permanent seats in the upper house. h. The parliament elected in 1990 has never been convened nor authorized to sit, and many of its members were detained or forced into exile. i. Parliament has been dissolved or suspended for an indefinite period.
Source: Column 1: determined on the basis of GEM values in column 2; column 2: calculated on the basis of data in columns 3-6; see technical note 1 for details; column 3: calculated on the basis of data on parliamentary seats from IPU 2004b; columns 4 and 5: calculated on the basis of occupational data from ILO 2004b; column 6: calculated on the basis of data in columns 9 and 10 of table 24.

GEM ranks for
78 countries
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18

224

Norway
Sweden
Denmark
Finland
Netherlands
Iceland
Belgium
Australia
Germany
Canada
New Zealand
Switzerland
Austria
United States
Spain
Ireland
Bahamas
United Kingdom

19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39

Costa Rica
Singapore
Argentina
Trinidad and Tobago
Portugal
Barbados
Israel
Slovakia
Poland
Estonia
Latvia
Czech Republic
Slovenia
Italy
Namibia
Mexico
Botswana
Croatia
Philippines
Japan
Hungary

40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60

Dominican Republic
Bolivia
Peru
Greece
Malaysia
Macedonia, TFYR
Uruguay
Lithuania
Colombia
Cyprus
Ecuador
Swaziland
Panama
Malta
Moldova, Rep. of
Russian Federation
Romania
Thailand
Chile
Belize
El Salvador

61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
77
78

Venezuela
Mongolia
Paraguay
Pakistan
Ukraine
Bahrain
Georgia
Korea, Rep. of
Cambodia
Honduras
Fiji
Iran, Islamic Rep. of
Turkey
Sri Lanka
Egypt
Bangladesh
Saudi Arabia
Yemen

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

. . . AND ACHIEVING EQUALITY FOR ALL WOMEN AND MEN

26 Gender
inequality in
education
Adult literacy a
Female
Female
rate
rate as
(% ages 15
% of
and above) male rate
2002
2002

HDI rank

MDG
Youth literacy a
Female
Female
rate
rate as
(% ages
% of
15-24)
male rate
2002
2002

MDG
Net primary
enrolment b, c
Female
Ratio of
ratio
female
(%)
to male e
2000/01
2000/01

MDG
Net secondary
enrolment b, c
Female
Ratio of
ratio
female
(%)
to male e
2000/01
2000/01

MDG
Gross tertiary
enrolment c, d
Female
Ratio of
ratio
female
(%)
to male e
2000/01
2000/01

High human development
1
2
3
4
5

Norway
Sweden
Australia
Canada
Netherlands

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

102
102
96
100
100

f

f, g
f

6
7
8
9
10

Belgium
Iceland
United States
Japan
Ireland

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

101
101
93
101
95

f

11
12
13
14
15

Switzerland
United Kingdom
Finland
Austria
Luxembourg

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

99
101
100
91
96

f

f

f

f
f
f
f

1.00
1.00
1.01
1.00
0.99

f

1.00
1.00
1.01
1.00
1.01

f

0.99
1.00
1.00
1.01
1.00

f

1.00
1.00
0.99
1.02
0.99

f

1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
..

f

f, g
f

f

f

f
f
f
f

95
99
90
98
90
..
85
85
101
85

f

g
f, g
f, g

f

g, h
f

85
95
95
88
83

f

93
91
93
88
96

f, g

85
89
72
86
..

g, j

89
97
89
86
89

f, g

f
f, g
f, g
f

1.01
1.01
1.03
1.00
1.00
..
1.05
1.00
1.01
1.07

f

g
f, g
f, g

f

g, h
f

0.95
1.02
1.02
0.99
1.09

f

1.02
1.03
1.02
1.00
1.04

f, g

1.01
1.01
1.02
1.03
..

g, j

1.08
1.02
1.00
0.99
1.02

f, g

f
f, g
f, g
f

85
93
72
68
57

f

63
61
94
45
53

f

37
64
94
61
10

f

59
68
87
48
64

f

57
67
26
64
..

f

58
70
61
52
25

f

f
f

f

f

f
f
f
f, i

1.52
1.54
1.24
1.34
1.07

f

1.16
1.73
1.35
0.86
1.27

f

0.78
1.20
1.22
1.15
1.14

f

1.23
1.35
1.52
1.00
1.19

f

1.32
1.38
0.99
1.10
..

f

1.37
1.35
0.60
2.55
1.35

f

f
f

f

f

f
f
f
f

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

100
99
98
84
104

f

Italy
Israel
Hong Kong, China (SAR)
Greece
Singapore

..
93.4
..
..
88.6

..
96
..
..
92

..
99.4
..
..
99.6

..
100
..
..
100

100
101
98
95
..

f

26
27
28
29
30

Portugal
Slovenia
Korea, Rep. of
Barbados
Cyprus

..
99.6
..
99.7
95.1

..
100
..
100
100

..
93
101
103
95

31
32
33
34
35

Malta
Czech Republic
Brunei Darussalam
Argentina
Seychelles

93.4
..
91.4
97.0
92.3

102
..
100
100
101

98
88
..
108
106

f

1.01
1.00
..
1.00
0.99

f

80
90
..
83
101

f, g

1.01
1.01
..
1.06
1.05

f, g

28
35
17
67
..

f

1.29
1.09
1.77
1.48
..

f

100
..
..
..
100

97
98
90
107
91

f

0.98
1.00
0.99
1.09
1.01

f

95
93
92
116
86

f

1.06
1.03
1.00
1.21
1.12

f

74
69
50
..
28

f

1.57
1.43
1.29
..
1.86

f

100
100
100
102
101

97
88
88
84
91

f

0.99
1.02
0.99
0.99
1.02

f

1.01
1.01
1.03
1.05
1.11

f, g

72
34
36
32
22

f

1.53
1.13
0.92
2.58
1.17

f

101
102
100
108
100

90
94
88
80
90

1.11
1.06
1.03
1.05
1.01

g

16
17
18
19
20

France
Denmark
New Zealand
Germany
Spain

21
22
23
24
25

k

k

k

k

36
37
38
39
40

Estonia
Poland
Hungary
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Bahrain

99.8
..
..
..
84.2

k

41
42
43
44
45

Lithuania
Slovakia
Chile
Kuwait
Costa Rica

99.6
99.7
95.6
81.0
95.9

k

46
47
48
49
50

Uruguay
Qatar
Croatia
United Arab Emirates
Latvia

98.1
82.3
97.1
80.7
99.7

k
k

k, l
k

k

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

..
100
..
100
96
102
..
95
100
101

k

k

k

k

100
..
..
..
92

k

100
100
100
96
100

k

101
97
98
107
100

k
k

k, l
k

k

..
99.8
..
99.8
99.8
99.8
..
99.3
98.9
99.4

k

k

k

k

99.8
..
..
..
98.9

k

99.7
99.7
99.2
93.9
98.7

k

99.4
95.8
99.7
95.0
99.8

k
k

k, l
k

k

h

g
f

f

f

f
g

f

f

..
0.99
1.00
1.00
1.01

1.01
0.98
0.98
0.97
0.99

h

g
f

f

f

f
g

f

f

h
f, g

g
f

f, g

f

f
g

92
87
76
79
53

f, g

76
80
87
74
89

g

f
g

g

f, g

h
f, g

g
f

f, g

f

f
g

f
g

g

f, g

48
34
39
..
80

f, g

f

f

f
f

g, j

f
g, j

f

1.82
2.69
1.15
..
1.66

f

f

f

f
f

j

f
j

f

225

26 Gender
inequality in
education
Adult literacy a
Female
Female
rate
rate as
(% ages 15
% of
and above) male rate
2002
2002

HDI rank
51
52
53
54
55

Bahamas
Cuba
Mexico
Trinidad and Tobago
Antigua and Barbuda

..
96.8
88.7
97.9
..

k

..
100
96
99
..

k

MDG
Youth literacy a
Female
Female
rate
rate as
(% ages
% of
15-24)
male rate
2002
2002
..
99.8
96.5
99.8
..

k

MDG
Net primary
enrolment b, c
Female
Ratio of
ratio
female
(%)
to male e
2000/01
2000/01

..
100
100
100
..

88
95
102
94
..

g

100
100
94
100
..

92
..
..
95
93

f

99
100
100
102
100

99
93
105
93
97

100
..
101
100
100

..
98
93
92
81

..
103
101
98
100

102
97
86
75
94

g

100
96
100
107
..

85
57
89
95
89

g

100
100
101
100
98

100
84
94
96
101

g

100
..
95
100
100

..
92
85
92
92

..
93
..
99
..

79
97
80
93
90

100
..
102
101
100

105
91
95
96
102

g

1.03
0.99
1.01
1.00
..

g

0.98
..
..
1.00
1.00

f

g

MDG
Net secondary
enrolment b, c
Female
Ratio of
ratio
female
(%)
to male e
2000/01
2000/01
79
84
61
69
..

g

85
..
..
73
81

f, g

65
79
77
64
75

g

g
g

1.01
1.01
1.03
1.03
..

g

0.98
..
..
1.10
0.96

f, g

1.10
1.04
1.13
1.08
1.03

g

g
g

MDG
Gross tertiary
enrolment c, d
Female
Ratio of
ratio
female
(%)
to male e
2000/01
2000/01
..
30
21
9
..

..
1.25
0.95
1.53
..

Medium human development
56
57
58
59
60

Bulgaria
Russian Federation
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
Malaysia
Macedonia, TFYR

98.1
99.5
70.7
85.4
..

61
62
63
64
65

Panama
Belarus
Tonga
Mauritius
Albania

91.7
99.6
98.9
80.5
98.3

66
67
68
69
70

Bosnia and Herzegovina
Suriname
Venezuela
Romania
Ukraine

91.1
..
92.7
96.3
99.5

71
72
73
74
75

Saint Lucia
Brazil
Colombia
Oman
Samoa (Western)

..
86.5
92.2
65.4
98.4

k

k
k
k

k

k

76
77
78
79
80

Thailand
Saudi Arabia
Kazakhstan
Jamaica
Lebanon

90.5
69.5
99.2
91.4
..

k

81
82
83
84
85

Fiji
Armenia
Philippines
Maldives
Peru

91.4
99.2
92.7
97.2
80.3

k, l

k, l

86
87
88
89
90

Turkmenistan
St. Vincent & the Grenadines
Turkey
Paraguay
Jordan

98.3
..
78.5
90.2
85.9

91
92
93
94
95

Azerbaijan
Tunisia
Grenada
China
Dominica

..
63.1
..
86.5
..

Sri Lanka
Georgia
Dominican Republic
Belize
Ecuador

89.6
..
84.4
77.1
89.7

96
97
98
99
100

226

k
k

m

k
m

k

k
k

99
100
77
93
..
99
100
100
91
99
93
..
99
98
100
..
100
100
80
99

k

k
k
k

k

k

95
83
100
109
..

k

97
99
100
100
88

k, l

99
..
83
97
90

k, l

..
76
..
91
..
95
..
100
101
97

k
k

m

k
m

k

k
k

99.6
99.8
94.0
97.3
..
96.6
99.8
99.1
95.4
99.5
99.7
..
98.9
97.8
99.9
..
95.7
97.9
97.3
99.5

k

k
k
k

k

k

97.8
91.6
99.8
97.8
..

k

99.4
99.9
95.7
99.2
95.6

k, l

99.8
..
93.2
96.5
99.5

k, l

..
90.6
..
98.5
..
96.9
..
92.5
84.6
96.5

k
k

m

k
m

k

k
k

f

g

f

g

f
g

g

g

g
g
g

f, g
f, g
f, g

f, g

1.00
0.98
1.00
1.00
1.00
..
1.01
1.01
0.99
1.00

f

g

f

g

f
g

0.98
1.02
0.99
1.01
0.99

g

0.97
0.92
0.99
1.00
0.99

g

1.00
0.99
1.02
1.01
1.00

g

..
0.99
0.93
1.01
1.01
0.98
0.99
0.90
1.01
0.98
1.00
1.00
0.96
1.00
1.01

g

g

g
g
g

f, g
f, g
f, g

f, g

..
75
62
81
91
79
74
56
68
65
..
51
83
76
..
79
86
62
33
65
..
57
..
51
81
75
69
..
..
87
..
72
47
63
50

f, g

g
f, g

f

g
g
f
g
g

g

g

g

h
f, g

g

g
g

f

g, j

f

..
1.43
1.17
1.02
1.00
1.29
1.08
1.10
1.00
1.12
..
0.93
0.97
1.04
..
1.07
1.04
1.20
1.13
0.97
..
1.21
..
1.05
1.03
0.99
1.04
..
..
1.06
..
1.03
1.34
1.07
1.02

f, g

g
f, g

f

g
g
f
g
g

g

g

g

h
f, g

g

g
g

f

g, j

f

46
80
61
28
28

f

42
72
4
13
19

g, h

..
15
31
30
63
24
21
25
10
6
38
26
43
24
48
73
29
35
..
31

f
f

g

f

g
f

g, j

g
g

g

g

g

..
..
21
22
31
24
21
..
..
..
..
37
..
..
..

1.35
1.33
1.09
1.09
1.32

f

1.67
1.37
1.40
1.29
1.69

h

..
1.69
1.37
1.20
1.17
0.87
1.29
1.10
1.67
0.90

f
f

f

f

j

1.09
1.49
1.23
2.24
1.14
1.00
1.17
1.29
..
0.98

g

..
..
0.73
1.37
1.02
f, g

1.02
0.97
..
..
..

f

..
1.02
..
..
..

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

26 Gender
inequality in
education
Adult literacy a
Female
Female
rate
rate as
(% ages 15
% of
and above) male rate
2002
2002

HDI rank

l, m

101
102
103
104
105

Iran, Islamic Rep. of
Occupied Palestinian Territories
El Salvador
Guyana
Cape Verde

70.4
..
77.1
..
68.0

84
..
94
..
80

106
107
108
109
110

Syrian Arab Republic
Uzbekistan
Algeria
Equatorial Guinea
Kyrgyzstan

74.2
98.9
59.6
..
..

111
112
113
114
115

Indonesia
Viet Nam
Moldova, Rep. of
Bolivia
Honduras

83.4
86.9
98.6
80.7
80.2

116
117
118
119
120

Tajikistan
Mongolia
Nicaragua
South Africa
Egypt

99.3
97.5
76.6
85.3
43.6

121
122
123
124
125

Guatemala
Gabon
São Tomé and Principe
Solomon Islands
Morocco

62.5
..
..
..
38.3

81
..
..
..
61

126
127
128
129
130

Namibia
India
Botswana
Vanuatu
Cambodia

82.8
..
81.5
..
59.3

131
132
133
134
135

Ghana
Myanmar
Papua New Guinea
Bhutan
Lao People’s Dem. Rep.

136
137
138
139
140
141

Comoros
Swaziland
Bangladesh
Sudan
Nepal
Cameroon

l, m

MDG
Youth literacy a
Female
Female
rate
rate as
(% ages
% of
15-24)
male rate
2002
2002

MDG
Net primary
enrolment b, c
Female
Ratio of
ratio
female
(%)
to male e
2000/01
2000/01

..
..
88.1
..
86.3

..
..
98
..
94

78
95
89
97
100

93.0
99.6
85.6
..
..

96
100
91
..
..

96
..
94
78
88

97.6
..
99.8
96.1
90.9

99
..
100
98
105

92
92
78
94
88

100
101
106
100
85

102
88
82
90
88

73.8
..
..
..
61.3

86
..
..
..
79

83
78
96
..
85

99
..
107
..
73

94.0
..
92.8
..
75.9

104
..
109
..
90

81
76
83
94
83

65.9
81.4
..
..
55.5

80
91
..
..
72

90.1
91.1
..
..
72.7

96
100
..
..
85

59
82
73
..
79

49.1
80.0
31.4
49.1
26.4
59.8

77
98
62
69
43
78

52.2
92.1
41.1
74.2
46.0
..

79
102
71
88
59
..

50
77
88
42
66
..

64
75
99
..
86

..
86
..
88
..

97
99
60
..
95

83
71
47
69
..

82
99
76
..
..
k, l

k
k
k
k
m

k, l

m

90
93
99
87
101
100
99
100
98
65

k, l

k
k
k
k
m

k, l

m

99.8
98.4
88.8
91.7
66.9

k
k
k
k
m

k, l

f, g

h

0.98
1.01
1.00
0.97
0.99

f, g

h

0.95
..
0.97
0.85
0.96
f, g

g

g

f, g
g

f

g

g

g, h

g, h
f, g

0.99
0.94
0.99
1.00
1.02
0.95
1.03
1.01
1.01
0.96
0.95
0.99
0.94
..
0.93
1.06
0.83
1.04
1.02
0.93
0.96
1.00
0.89
..
0.92
0.84
1.01
1.02
0.83
0.88
..

MDG
Net secondary
enrolment b, c
Female
Ratio of
ratio
female
(%)
to male e
2000/01
2000/01
..
83
47
79
54
37
..
64
19
..

f, g

g

g

f, g
g

f

g

g

g, h

g, h
f, g

g

g, h

g
g, h

46
..
70
67
..

g, h

72
78
40
65
79

g

27
..
..
..
28

g

44
..
59
28
15
30
34
20
..
28

f, g

f, g
g

g, h

f, g

g
g

g

..
35
46
..
..
..

..
1.06
1.02
1.10
1.04
0.91
..
1.06
0.58
..

g

g, h

g
g, h

0.95
..
1.03
0.98
..

g, h

0.84
1.19
1.18
1.11
0.95

g

0.95
..
..
..
0.83

g

1.36
..
1.15
1.01
0.60
0.87
0.94
0.80
..
0.81

f, g

f, g
g

g, h

f, g

g
g

g

..
1.21
1.10
..
..
..

MDG
Gross tertiary
enrolment c, d
Female
Ratio of
ratio
female
(%)
to male e
2000/01
2000/01
20
30
18
..
3

1.01
0.98
1.19
..
0.84

..
..
..
2
48

..
..
..
0.43
1.14

14
9
33
22
16

h

g, j
g

7
44
..
16
..
..
5
1
..
9
7
9
4
..
2
2
15
1
..
3
1
5
4
6
2
4

0.86
0.76
1.34
0.55
1.32

h

j

0.33
1.74
..
1.14
..
j
g

g

f

f, g
j

g, h

j

g

..
0.54
0.56
..
0.80
0.84
0.68
0.82
..
0.40
0.39
1.75
0.54
..
0.57
0.73
1.16
0.50
0.92
0.28
0.63

j

f

f
j

h

j

Low human development
142
143
144
145
146

Pakistan
Togo
Congo
Lesotho
Uganda

28.5
45.4
77.1
90.3
59.2

147
148
149
150
151

Zimbabwe
Kenya
Yemen
Madagascar
Nigeria

86.3
78.5
28.5
..
59.4

k, l

m

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

53
61
87
123
75
92
87
41
..
80

k, l

m

42.0
66.6
97.3
..
74.0
96.2
95.1
50.9
..
86.5

k, l

..
0.84
..
1.08
..
g
g, h

1.01
1.02
0.66
1.01
..

..
17
..
27
13
g
g, h

38
24
21
12
..

g, h

f

g
g, h
g, j

..
0.48
..
1.56
0.86
0.91
0.97
0.46
1.03
..

g, h

f

g
g, h
g, j

..
1
1
3
2
3
2
5
2
..

h

g
g
g
g, h

..
0.20
0.19
1.28
0.52
0.58
0.53
0.28
0.83
..

h

h

227

26 Gender
inequality in
education
Adult literacy a
Female
Female
rate
rate as
(% ages 15
% of
and above) male rate
2002
2002

HDI rank

MDG
Youth literacy a
Female
Female
rate
rate as
(% ages
% of
15-24)
male rate
2002
2002

MDG
Net primary
enrolment b, c
Female
Ratio of
ratio
female
(%)
to male e
2000/01
2000/01

152
153
154
155
156

Mauritania
Haiti
Djibouti
Gambia
Eritrea

31.3
50.0
..
..
..

61
93
..
..
..

41.8
66.5
..
..
..

73
101
..
..
..

65
..
30
70
39

157
158
159
160
161

Senegal
Timor-Leste
Rwanda
Guinea
Benin

29.7
..
63.4
..
25.5

61
..
84
..
47

44.5
..
83.6
..
38.5

72
..
97
..
53

54
..
85
54
58

162
163
164
165
166

Tanzania, U. Rep. of
Côte d’Ivoire
Zambia
Malawi
Angola

69.2
..
73.8
48.7
..

81
..
85
64
..

89.4
51.5
86.9
62.8
..

95
74
95
77
..

54
53
66
81
28

167
168
169
170
171

Chad
Congo, Dem. Rep. of the
Central African Republic
Ethiopia
Mozambique

37.5
..
33.5
33.8
31.4

172
173
174
175
176
177

Guinea-Bissau
Burundi
Mali
Burkina Faso
Niger
Sierra Leone

..
43.6
11.9
8.1
9.3
..

Developing countries
Least developed countries
Arab States
East Asia and the Pacific
Latin America and the Caribbean
South Asia
Sub-Saharan Africa
Central & Eastern Europe & CIS
OECD
High-income OECD

m

k, l
k, l

69
..
52
69
50
..
76
44
44
37
..

m

k, l
k, l

64.0
..
46.9
51.8
49.2
..
65.1
16.9
14.0
15.1
..

m

k, l
k, l

g

g
g

g, h

g
g
g, h

84
..
67
82
64

47
34
..
41
56

g

..
97
52
55
44
..

38
48
32
29
28
..

h

j

g
g, j
g

0.96
..
0.77
0.92
0.86
0.89
..
1.03
0.78
0.69
1.00
0.74
0.99
1.00
0.86

g

g
g

g, h

g
g
g, h

0.67
0.95
..
0.79
0.88

g

0.71
0.82
0.72
0.71
0.68
..

h

j

g
g, j
g

MDG
Net secondary
enrolment b, c
Female
Ratio of
ratio
female
(%)
to male e
2000/01
2000/01
13
..
13
24
18
..
..
..
7
13
..
..
18
26
..
4
9
..
11
9
..
7
..
6
4
..

g

g
g
g

g, j
f, g

g

f, g
g, j

g

g

f, g

0.83
..
0.63
0.75
0.74
..
..
..
0.38
0.48
..
..
0.85
0.81
..
0.31
0.58
..
0.61
0.69
..
0.75
..
0.65
0.66
..

g

g
g
g

g, j
f, g

g

f, g
g, j

g

g

f, g

MDG
Gross tertiary
enrolment c, d
Female
Ratio of
ratio
female
(%)
to male e
2000/01
2000/01
1
..
1
..
(.)

0.27
..
0.80
..
0.15

..
15
1
..
1

..
1.58
0.40
..
0.24

g

h

(.)
4
2
(.)
1

f

(.)
..
1
1
(.)

h

(.)
1
..
1
1
1

h

j
f, g
j
h

h

g, h

g
g

h

0.31
0.36
0.46
0.37
0.63

f

0.17
..
0.19
0.36
0.73

h

0.18
0.42
..
0.33
0.34
0.40

h

75.9
43.3
51.8
86.2
87.7
40.8
55.9
99.1
..
..

88
70
70
91
98
67
79
100
..
..

85.7
57.4
75.6
97.6
95.3
45.0
72.6
99.6
..
..

95
81
87
99
101
70
90
100
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

High human development
Medium human development
Low human development

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

High income
Middle income
Low income

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

World

..

..

..

..

..

..

..

..

..

..

j
f
j
h

h

h

a. Data refer to estimates produced by UNESCO Institute for Statistics in July 2002, unless otherwise specified. Due to differences in methodology and timeliness of underlying data, comparisons across countries and over
time should be made with caution. b. The net enrolment ratio is the ratio of enrolled children of the official age for the education level indicated to the total population at that age. Net enrolment ratios exceeding 100%
reflect discrepancies between these two data sets. c. Data refer to the 2001/02 school year. Data for some countries may refer to national or UNESCO Institute for Statistics estimates. For details, see http://www.uis.unesco.org/.
Because data are from different sources, comparisons across countries should be made with caution. d. Tertiary enrolment is generally calculated as a gross ratio. e. Calculated as the ratio of the female enrolment ratio
to the male enrolment ratio. f. Data refer to the 2000/01 school year. g. Preliminary UNESCO Institute for Statistics estimates, subject to further revision. h. Data refer to the 1999/2000 school year. i. The ratio is an underestimate, as many students pursue their studies in nearby countries. j. Data refer to the 1998/99 school year. k. Census data. l. Data refer to a year between 1995 and 1999. m. Survey data.
Source: Columns 1 and 3: UNESCO Institute for Statistics 2004a; columns 2 and 4: calculated on the basis of data on adult and youth literacy rates from UNESCO Institute for Statistics 2004a; columns 5, 7 and 9:
UNESCO Institute for Statistics 2004c; columns 6, 8 and 10: calculated on the basis of data on net enrolment rates from UNESCO Institute for Statistics 2004c.

228

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

. . . AND ACHIEVING EQUALITY FOR ALL WOMEN AND MEN

27 Gender
inequality in
economic
activity
Female economic activity rate
(ages 15 and above)
Rate
Index
As % of
(%)
(1990 = 100) male rate
2002
2002
2002

HDI rank

Female employment by economic activity
(%)
Agriculture
Industry
Services
As % of
As % of
As % of
Total
male rate Total male rate Total
male rate
1995199519951995199519952002 a
2002 a
2002 a
2002 a
2002 a
2002 a

Contributing
family workers
(%)
Women
Men
199519952002 a
2002 a

High human development
1
2
3
4
5

Norway
Sweden
Australia
Canada
Netherlands

59.9
62.7
56.4
60.5
45.8

110
102
108
105
106

85
89
78
83
67

2
1
3
2
2

37
32
56
40
60

9
11
10
11
9

27
31
33
35
29

88
88
87
87
86

152
144
135
137
135

63
50
58
65
80

38
50
42
35
20

6
7
8
9
10

Belgium
Iceland
United States
Japan
Ireland

40.1
66.7
59.3
51.1
37.9

106
101
107
104
118

67
83
82
68
53

1
3
1
5
2

52
24
42
113
17

10
10
12
21
14

28
29
36
55
36

82
85
87
73
83

141
157
134
128
167

85
50
63
81
53

15
50
37
19
47

11
12
13
14
15

Switzerland
United Kingdom
Finland
Austria
Luxembourg

51.0
53.2
56.9
44.1
38.2

104
106
98
103
104

66
75
87
66
58

3
1
4
6
..

67
35
50
113
..

13
11
14
14
..

37
32
35
32
..

84
88
82
80
..

141
142
156
154
..

59
68
42
67
..

41
32
58
33
..

16
17
18
19
20

France
Denmark
New Zealand
Germany
Spain

49.1
61.8
58.0
47.9
38.1

108
100
110
100
113

77
84
80
70
57

1
2
6
2
5

36
34
50
70
59

13
14
12
18
15

38
38
37
40
35

86
85
82
80
81

136
143
146
153
160

..
..
61
78
63

..
..
39
22
37

21
22
23
24
25

Italy
Israel
Hong Kong, China (SAR)
Greece
Singapore

38.8
49.2
51.1
38.4
50.0

107
115
105
109
99

59
69
65
59
64

5
..
(.)
18
(.)

78
..
33
118
50

20
..
10
12
18

52
..
37
40
60

75
..
90
70
81

136
..
123
127
119

54
76
87
69
76

46
24
13
31
24

26
27
28
29
30

Portugal
Slovenia
Korea, Rep. of
Barbados
Cyprus

51.6
54.4
54.1
62.3
49.2

105
98
112
107
103

72
81
71
79
62

14
10
12
4
4

123
95
125
77
80

23
29
19
10
13

51
62
55
35
41

63
61
70
63
83

143
143
122
129
142

70
62
88
..
84

30
38
12
..
16

31
32
33
34
35

Malta
Czech Republic
Brunei Darussalam
Argentina
Seychelles

26.3
61.3
50.7
36.7
..

113
100
112
126
..

38
83
63
48
..

1
3
..
(.)
..

18
55
..
33
..

21
28
..
12
..

58
57
..
40
..

78
68
..
87
..

129
155
..
127
..

..
86
..
59
..

..
14
..
41
..

36
37
38
39
40

Estonia
Poland
Hungary
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Bahrain

60.4
57.1
48.6
..
34.2

95
100
102
..
120

82
80
72
..
40

4
19
4
..
..

39
99
41
..
..

23
18
26
..
..

55
46
60
..
..

73
63
71
..
..

153
155
144
..
..

50
58
70
..
..

50
43
30
..
..

41
42
43
44
45

Lithuania
Slovakia
Chile
Kuwait
Costa Rica

57.5
62.7
38.5
36.4
37.6

97
99
121
96
113

80
84
50
48
47

12
4
..
..
4

60
45
..
..
19

21
26
..
..
15

61
53
..
..
57

67
71
..
..
80

148
161
..
..
158

59
75
..
..
43

41
25
..
..
57

46
47
48
49
50

Uruguay
Qatar
Croatia
United Arab Emirates
Latvia

48.6
42.1
48.9
32.0
59.3

110
127
102
110
94

67
47
73
37
80

2
..
15
(.)
12

28
..
97
1
63

14
..
21
14
16

43
..
58
38
48

85
..
63
86
72

136
..
133
157
153

74
..
73
..
50

25
..
27
..
50

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

229

27 Gender
inequality in
economic
activity
Female economic activity rate
(ages 15 and above)
Rate
Index
As % of
(%)
(1990 = 100) male rate
2002
2002
2002

HDI rank
51
52
53
54
55

Bahamas
Cuba
Mexico
Trinidad and Tobago
Antigua and Barbuda

Female employment by economic activity
(%)
Agriculture
Industry
Services
As % of
As % of
As % of
Total
male rate Total male rate Total
male rate
1995199519951995199519952002 a
2002 a
2002 a
2002 a
2002 a
2002 a

Contributing
family workers
(%)
Women
Men
199519952002 a
2002 a

67.0
50.8
40.2
44.9
..

104
120
118
115
..

84
66
48
60
..

1
..
6
3
..

22
..
26
25
..

5
..
22
13
..

22
..
79
36
..

93
..
72
84
..

134
..
150
160
..

..
..
49
75
..

..
..
51
25
..

Medium human development
56
57
58
59
60

Bulgaria
Russian Federation
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
Malaysia
Macedonia, TFYR

56.1
59.1
25.6
48.9
50.0

94
98
125
110
104

86
82
34
62
72

..
8
..
14
..

..
53
..
68
..

..
23
..
29
..

..
64
..
85
..

..
69
..
57
..

..
140
..
126
..

..
41
..
..
61

..
58
..
..
39

61
62
63
64
65

Panama
Belarus
Tonga
Mauritius
Albania

44.0
59.1
..
38.4
60.0

114
97
..
111
103

56
82
..
48
74

6
..
..
13
..

19
..
..
82
..

10
..
..
43
..

50
..
..
110
..

85
..
..
45
..

165
..
..
97
..

36
..
..
..
..

64
..
..
..
..

66
67
68
69
70

Bosnia and Herzegovina
Suriname
Venezuela
Romania
Ukraine

43.1
37.1
43.9
50.5
55.4

99
124
116
97
98

60
50
54
76
80

..
2
2
45
17

..
21
12
113
79

..
1
12
22
22

..
2
42
72
57

..
97
86
33
55

..
150
151
111
168

..
..
..
71
60

..
..
..
29
40

71
72
73
74
75

Saint Lucia
Brazil
Colombia
Oman
Samoa (Western)

..
43.7
48.9
20.0
..

..
98
115
157
..

..
52
61
26
..

16
16
7
..
..

59
68
20
..
..

14
10
17
..
..

56
37
90
..
..

71
74
76
..
..

144
150
158
..
..

..
..
58
..
..

..
..
42
..
..

76
77
78
79
80

Thailand
Saudi Arabia
Kazakhstan
Jamaica
Lebanon

73.0
22.0
61.2
67.3
30.3

97
147
101
101
125

85
29
82
86
39

48
..
..
10
..

95
..
..
34
..

17
..
..
9
..

85
..
..
34
..

35
..
..
81
..

119
..
..
181
..

66
..
..
66
..

34
..
..
34
..

81
82
83
84
85

Fiji
Armenia
Philippines
Maldives
Peru

38.7
62.4
49.9
65.4
35.3

146
99
106
100
120

48
88
61
80
44

..
..
25
5
6

..
..
55
31
56

..
..
12
24
10

..
..
67
149
42

..
..
63
39
84

..
..
172
70
129

..
..
..
57
66

..
..
..
43
34

86
87
88
89
90

Turkmenistan
St. Vincent & the Grenadines
Turkey
Paraguay
Jordan

62.5
..
50.8
37.3
27.6

105
..
116
110
163

82
..
62
44
36

..
..
56
20
..

..
..
232
52
..

..
..
15
10
..

..
..
56
50
..

..
..
29
69
..

..
..
60
173
..

..
..
68
..
..

..
..
32
..
..

91
92
93
94
95

Azerbaijan
Tunisia
Grenada
China
Dominica

55.0
37.5
..
72.5
..

106
114
..
98
..

76
48
..
86
..

43
..
10
..
14

114
..
59
..
44

7
..
12
..
10

51
..
38
..
42

50
..
77
..
72

103
..
165
..
180

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

Sri Lanka
Georgia
Dominican Republic
Belize
Ecuador

43.3
55.7
40.8
27.5
33.4

108
100
120
115
120

56
78
48
32
40

49
53
2
6
4

129
100
9
17
38

22
6
17
12
16

98
47
64
62
55

27
41
81
81
79

74
118
154
187
132

56
57
23
32
64

44
43
77
68
36

96
97
98
99
100

230

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

27 Gender
inequality in
economic
activity
Female economic activity rate
(ages 15 and above)
Rate
Index
As % of
(%)
(1990 = 100) male rate
2002
2002
2002

HDI rank

Female employment by economic activity
(%)
Agriculture
Industry
Services
As % of
As % of
As % of
Total
male rate Total male rate Total
male rate
1995199519951995199519952002 a
2002 a
2002 a
2002 a
2002 a
2002 a

Contributing
family workers
(%)
Women
Men
199519952002 a
2002 a

101
102
103
104
105

Iran, Islamic Rep. of
Occupied Palestinian Territories
El Salvador
Guyana
Cape Verde

30.0
9.5
47.1
41.5
46.6

139
151
126
116
109

38
14
56
50
53

..
26
4
..
..

..
281
12
..
..

..
11
22
..
..

..
34
90
..
..

..
62
74
..
..

..
107
178
..
..

46
46
39
..
..

54
54
61
..
..

106
107
108
109
110

Syrian Arab Republic
Uzbekistan
Algeria
Equatorial Guinea
Kyrgyzstan

29.2
62.8
30.9
45.7
61.2

124
106
162
101
104

38
85
41
52
85

..
..
..
..
53

..
..
..
..
103

..
..
..
..
8

..
..
..
..
60

..
..
..
..
38

..
..
..
..
112

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

111
112
113
114
115

Indonesia
Viet Nam
Moldova, Rep. of
Bolivia
Honduras

56.0
73.5
60.3
48.4
41.2

111
96
98
106
122

68
91
84
58
48

..
..
50
3
..

..
..
97
54
..

..
..
10
14
..

..
..
58
36
..

..
..
40
82
..

..
..
130
151
..

..
..
70
63
40

..
..
30
37
60

116
117
118
119
120

Tajikistan
Mongolia
Nicaragua
South Africa
Egypt

58.5
73.8
48.1
47.3
35.7

112
103
119
102
118

81
88
57
59
45

..
..
..
9
39

..
..
..
72
144

..
..
..
14
7

..
..
..
41
28

..
..
..
75
54

..
..
..
150
112

..
70
..
..
33

..
30
..
..
67

121
122
123
124
125

Guatemala
Gabon
São Tomé and Principe
Solomon Islands
Morocco

37.1
63.2
..
80.9
41.8

132
101
..
97
107

43
77
..
92
53

18
..
..
..
6

36
..
..
..
107

23
..
..
..
40

127
..
..
..
125

56
..
..
..
54

203
..
..
..
86

..
..
..
..
19

..
..
..
..
81

126
127
128
129
130

Namibia
India
Botswana
Vanuatu
Cambodia

53.7
42.4
62.6
..
80.2

101
105
95
..
98

67
50
77
..
97

29
..
17
..
..

89
..
78
..
..

7
..
14
..
..

39
..
54
..
..

63
..
67
..
..

128
..
133
..
..

..
..
45
..
64

..
..
55
..
36

131
132
133
134
135

Ghana
Myanmar
Papua New Guinea
Bhutan
Lao People’s Dem. Rep.

79.9
65.8
67.6
57.1
74.5

98
99
100
100
101

98
75
79
65
85

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

136
137
138
139
140
141

Comoros
Swaziland
Bangladesh
Sudan
Nepal
Cameroon

62.4
41.9
66.4
35.4
56.8
49.6

99
107
101
115
101
105

73
52
76
41
67
59

..
..
77
..
..
..

..
..
144
..
..
..

..
..
9
..
..
..

..
..
82
..
..
..

..
..
12
..
..
..

..
..
40
..
..
..

..
..
81
..
..
..

..
..
19
..
..
..

Low human development
142
143
144
145
146

Pakistan
Togo
Congo
Lesotho
Uganda

36.3
53.5
58.4
47.6
79.3

127
101
100
103
98

44
62
71
56
88

73
..
..
..
..

164
..
..
..
..

9
..
..
..
..

46
..
..
..
..

18
..
..
..
..

50
..
..
..
..

33
..
..
..
..

67
..
..
..
..

147
148
149
150
151

Zimbabwe
Kenya
Yemen
Madagascar
Nigeria

65.0
74.7
30.8
69.0
47.8

98
100
109
99
102

78
85
37
78
56

..
16
88
..
2

..
79
204
..
51

..
10
3
..
11

..
41
21
..
37

..
75
9
..
87

..
131
21
..
131

..
..
26
..
..

..
..
74
..
..

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

231

27 Gender
inequality in
economic
activity
Female economic activity rate
(ages 15 and above)
Rate
Index
As % of
(%)
(1990 = 100) male rate
2002
2002
2002

HDI rank

Female employment by economic activity
(%)
Agriculture
Industry
Services
As % of
As % of
As % of
Total
male rate Total male rate Total
male rate
1995199519951995199519952002 a
2002 a
2002 a
2002 a
2002 a
2002 a

Contributing
family workers
(%)
Women
Men
199519952002 a
2002 a

152
153
154
155
156

Mauritania
Haiti
Djibouti
Gambia
Eritrea

63.2
55.7
..
69.7
74.6

97
97
..
101
98

74
70
..
78
87

..
37
..
..
..

..
60
..
..
..

..
6
..
..
..

..
41
..
..
..

..
57
..
..
..

..
252
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

157
158
159
160
161

Senegal
Timor-Leste
Rwanda
Guinea
Benin

61.7
73.3
82.4
77.1
73.2

101
96
98
98
96

72
86
88
89
90

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

162
163
164
165
166

Tanzania, U. Rep. of
Côte d’Ivoire
Zambia
Malawi
Angola

81.5
44.0
64.0
77.7
72.6

98
102
98
97
98

93
51
74
90
82

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

167
168
169
170
171

Chad
Congo, Dem. Rep. of the
Central African Republic
Ethiopia
Mozambique

67.3
60.4
67.3
57.2
82.6

102
97
96
98
99

77
72
78
67
92

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

172
173
174
175
176
177

Guinea-Bissau
Burundi
Mali
Burkina Faso
Niger
Sierra Leone

57.0
81.8
69.8
74.7
69.3
45.0

100
99
97
97
99
106

63
89
79
85
75
54

..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..

Developing countries
Least developed countries
Arab States
East Asia and the Pacific
Latin America and the Caribbean
South Asia
Sub-Saharan Africa
Central & Eastern Europe & the CIS
OECD
High-income OECD

55.8
64.2
33.0
68.8
42.5
43.7
62.1
57.4
51.5
52.2

101
99
118
99
110
107
99
99
106
106

67
74
42
82
52
52
73
81
71
74

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

High human development
Medium human development
Low human development

50.9
56.7
56.9

106
101
102

70
69
66

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

High income
Middle income
Low income

52.1
59.1
51.9

106
100
104

73
73
62

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

..
..
..

World

55.3

102

69

..

..

..

..

..

..

..

..

Note: As a result of limitations in the data, comparisons of labour statistics over time and across countries should be made with caution. For detailed notes on the data, see ILO (2002), ILO (2003) and ILO (2004b). The
percentage shares of employment by economic activity may not sum to 100 because of rounding or the omission of activities not classified.
a. Data refer to the most recent year available during the period specified.
Source: Columns 1-3: calculated on the basis of data on the economically active population and total population from ILO 2002; columns 4-9: ILO 2003; columns 10 and 11: calculated on the basis of data on contributing family workers from ILO 2004b.

232

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

. . . AND ACHIEVING EQUALITY FOR ALL WOMEN AND MEN

28 Gender,
work burden
and time
allocation

Year

Burden of work
Total work time
Female
(minutes per day)
work time
Women
Men
(% of male)

Time allocation
(%)
Total work time
Time spent by women
Time spent by men
Market Non-market Market Non-market Market Non-market
activities activities activities activities activities
activities

Selected developing countries
Urban areas
Colombia
Indonesia
Kenya
Nepal
Venezuela
Average

1983
1992
1986
1978
1983

Nepal
Highlands
Mountains
Rural hills
Philippines

112
109
103
105
106

49
60
46
58
59

51
40
54
42
41

24
35
41
25
30

76
65
59
75
70

77
86
79
67
87

23
14
21
33
13

481

453

107

54

46

31

69

79

21

1990
1977
1988

545
678
676

496
579
500

110
117
135

52
59
56

48
41
44

35
37
42

65
63
58

70
84
76

30
16
24

1978
1978
1978
1978
1975-77

641
692
649
583
546

547
586
534
520
452

117
118
122
112
121

56
59
56
52
73

44
41
44
48
27

46
52
48
37
29

54
48
52
63
71

67
66
65
70
84

33
34
35
30
16

617

515

120

59

41

38

62

76

24

457
545
332

391
501
273

117
109
122

61
61
51

39
39
49

35
49
35

65
51
65

92
75
70

8
25
30

445

388

116

58

42

40

60

79

21

a

National b
India
Mongolia
South Africa
Average

356
366
572
554
416

a

Rural areas
Bangladesh
Guatemala
Kenya

Average

399
398
590
579
440

2000
2000
2000

a

Selected OECD countries

c

Australia
Austria d
Canada
Denmark d
Finland d

1997
1992
1998
1987
1987-88

435
438
420
449
430

418
393
429
458
410

104
111
98
98
105

46
49
53
68
51

54
51
47
32
49

30
31
41
58
39

70
69
59
42
61

62
71
65
79
64

38
29
35
21
36

France
Germany d
Hungary
Israel d
Italy d

1999
1991-92
1999
1991-92
1988-89

391
440
432
375
470

363
441
445
377
367

108
100
97
99
128

46
44
51
51
45

54
56
49
49
55

33
30
41
29
22

67
70
59
71
78

60
61
60
74
77

40
39
40
26
23

1996
1999
1996
1995
1999

393
431
535
308
420

363
373
481
315
417

108
116
111
98
101

66
64
46
48
46

34
36
54
52
54

43
45
35
27
32

57
55
65
73
68

93
88
58
69
60

7
12
42
31
40

1990-91
1985
1985

445
413
453

412
411
428

108
100
106

50
51
50

50
49
50

38
37
37

62
63
63

64
68
63

36
32
37

423

403

105

52

48

37

64

69

31

Japan
Korea, Rep. of
Latvia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Norway d
United Kingdom d
United States d
Average

e

Note: Data are estimates based on time use surveys available in time for publication. Time use data are also being collected in other countries, including Benin, Chad, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Guatemala,
the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Mali, Mexico, Morocco, Nepal, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Oman, the Philippines, Thailand and Viet Nam. Market activities refer to market-oriented production activities as defined by the
1993 revised UN System of National Accounts; surveys before 1993 are not strictly comparable with those for later years.
a. Refers to the unweighted average for countries or areas shown above. b. Classifications of market and non-market activities are not strictly based on the 1993 revised UN System of National Accounts, so comparisons
between countries and areas must be made with caution. c. Includes Israel and Latvia although they are not OECD countries. d. Harvey 1995. e. Refers to the unweighted average for the selected OECD countries above
(excluding Israel and Latvia).
Source: Columns 1-10: For urban and rural areas in selected developing countries, Goldshmidt-Clermont and Pagnossin Aligisakis 1995 and Harvey 1995; for national estimates in selected developing countries, UN 2002;
for selected OECD countries and Latvia, unless otherwise noted, Harvey 2001.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

233

. . . AND ACHIEVING EQUALITY FOR ALL WOMEN AND MEN

29 Women’s
political
participation

Year women received right a
To stand for
To vote
election

HDI rank

Year first woman
elected (E) or
appointed (A)
to parliament

Women in
government at
ministerial level
(% of total) b
2001

MDG
Seats in parliament held by women
(% of total) c
Lower or
Upper house
single house
or senate
1990
2004
2004

High human development
1
2
3
4
5

Norway
Sweden
Australia
Canada
Netherlands

1907, 1913
1861, 1921
1902, 1962
1917, 1950
1919

1907, 1913
1907, 1921
1902, 1962
1920, 1960
1917

1911 A
1921 E
1943 E
1921 E
1918 E

42.1
55.0
19.5
24.3
31.0

36
38
6
13
21

36.4
45.3
25.3
20.6
36.7

–
–
28.9
32.4
32.0

6
7
8
9
10

Belgium
Iceland
United States
Japan
Ireland

1919, 1948
1915, 1920
1920, 1960
1945, 1947
1918, 1928

1921, 1948
1915, 1920
1788
1945, 1947
1918, 1928

1921 A
1922 E
1917 E
1946 E
1918 E

18.5
33.3
31.8
5.7
18.8

9
21
7
1
8

35.3
30.2
14.3
7.1
13.3

31.0
–
13.0
15.4
16.7

11
12
13
14
15

Switzerland
United Kingdom
Finland
Austria
Luxembourg

1971
1918, 1928
1906
1918
1919

1971
1918, 1928
1906
1918
1919

1971 E
1918 E
1907 E
1919 E
1919 E

28.6
33.3
44.4
31.3
28.6

14
6
32
12
13

25.0
17.9
37.5
33.9
16.7

23.9
16.7
–
21.0
–

16
17
18
19
20

France
Denmark
New Zealand
Germany
Spain

1944
1915
1893
1918
1931

1944
1915
1919
1918
1931

1945 E
1918 E
1933 E
1919 E
1931 E

37.9
45.0
44.0
35.7
17.6

7
31
14
..
15

12.2
38.0
28.3
32.2
28.3

10.9
–
–
24.6
24.3

21
22
23
24
25

Italy
Israel
Hong Kong, China (SAR)
Greece
Singapore

1945
1948
..
1927, 1952
1947

1945
1948
..
1927, 1952
1947

1946 E
1949 E
..
1952 E
1963 E

17.6
6.1
..
7.1
5.7

13
7
..
7
5

11.5
15.0
..
8.7
16.0

8.1
–
..
–
–

26
27
28
29
30

Portugal
Slovenia
Korea, Rep. of
Barbados
Cyprus

1931, 1976
1945
1948
1950
1960

1931, 1976
1945
1948
1950
1960

1934 E
1992 E
1948 E
1966 A
1963 E

9.7
15.0
6.5
14.3
..

8
..
2
4
2

19.1
12.2
5.9
13.3
10.7

–
–
–
23.8
–

31
32
33
34
35

Malta
Czech Republic
Brunei Darussalam f
Argentina
Seychelles

1947
1920
–
1947
1948

1947
1920
–
1947
1948

1966 E
1992 E
–
1951 E
1976 E+A

5.3
..
0.0
7.3
23.1

3
..
–
6
16

9.2
17.0
–
30.7
29.4

–
12.3
–
33.3
–

36
37
38
39
40

Estonia
Poland
Hungary
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Bahrain

1918
1918
1918
1951
1973

1918
1918
1918
1951
1973

1919 E
1919 E
1920 E
1984 E
–

14.3
18.7
35.9
0.0
..

..
14
21
7
..

18.8
20.2
9.8
13.3
0.0

41
42
43
44
45

Lithuania
Slovakia
Chile
Kuwait f
Costa Rica

18.9
19.0
25.6
0.0
28.6

..
..
..
..
11

10.6
19.3
12.5
0.0
35.1

46
47
48
49
50

Uruguay
Qatar f
Croatia
United Arab Emirates f
Latvia

..
0.0
16.2
..
6.7

6
–
..
..
..

234

h

d

h

1921
1920
1931, 1949
–
1949

1921
1920
1931, 1949
–
1949

1920 A
1992 E
1951 E
–
1953 E

1932
–
1945
–
1918

1932
–
1945
–
1918

1942 E
–
1992 E
–
..

e

e

e

e

g

g

12.1
–
17.8
0.0
21.0

g

i

–
23.0
–
–
15.0

g

i

–
–
4.1
–
–
g

9.7
–
–
–
–

g

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

29 Women’s
political
participation

Year women received right a
To stand for
To vote
election

HDI rank
51
52
53
54
55

Bahamas
Cuba
Mexico
Trinidad and Tobago
Antigua and Barbuda

Year first woman
elected (E) or
appointed (A)
to parliament

1961, 1964
1934
1947
1946
1951

1961, 1964
1934
1953
1946
1951

1977 A
1940 E
1952 A
1962 E+A
1984 A

1937
1918
1964
1957
1946

1944
1918
1964
1957
1946

1945 E
1993 E
..
1959 E
1990 E

Women in
government at
ministerial level
(% of total) b
2001

MDG
Seats in parliament held by women
(% of total) c
Lower or
Upper house
single house
or senate
1990
2004
2004

16.7
10.7
11.1
8.7
0.0

4
34
12
17
..

20.0
36.0
22.6
19.4
5.3

43.8
–
15.6
32.3
11.8

18.8
..
12.5
..
10.9

21
..
..
5
..

26.2
9.8
..
10.5
18.3

–
3.4
–
37.0
–

20.0
25.7
..
9.1
15.0

8
..
..
7
29

9.9
10.3
0.0
5.7
5.7

–
31.1
–
–
–

..
..
0.0
20.0
..

..
8
10
34
..

16.7
17.6
9.7
10.7
5.3

0.0
–
–
5.7
–

11.1
8.6
12.0
–
6.1

36.4
12.3
8.8
–
–

Medium human development
56
57
58
59
60

Bulgaria
Russian Federation
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
Malaysia
Macedonia, TFYR

61
62
63
64
65

Panama
Belarus
Tonga
Mauritius
Albania

1941, 1946
1919
..
1956
1920

1941, 1946
1919
..
1956
1920

1946 E
1990 E
..
1976 E
1945 E

66
67
68
69
70

Bosnia and Herzegovina
Suriname
Venezuela
Romania
Ukraine

..
1948
1946
1929, 1946
1919

..
1948
1946
1929, 1946
1919

..
1975 E
1948 E
1946 E
1990 E

71
72
73
74
75

Saint Lucia
Brazil
Colombia
Oman f
Samoa (Western)

1924
1934
1954
–
1990

1924
1934
1954
–
1990

1979 A
1933 E
1954 A
–
1976 A

18.2
0.0
47.4
..
7.7

..
5
5
–
..

76
77
78
79
80

Thailand
Saudi Arabia f
Kazakhstan
Jamaica
Lebanon

1932
–
1924, 1993
1944
1952

1932
–
1924, 1993
1944
1952

1948 A
–
1990 E
1944 E
1991 A

5.7
..
17.5
12.5
0.0

3
..
..
5
..

9.2
0.0
10.4
11.7
2.3

10.5
–
5.1
19.0
–

81
82
83
84
85

Fiji
Armenia
Philippines
Maldives
Peru

1963
1921
1937
1932
1955

1963
1921
1937
1932
1955

1970A
1990 E
1941 E
1979 E
1956 E

20.7
..
..
..
16.2

..
36
9
6
6

5.7
4.6
17.8
6.0
17.5

6.7
–
12.5
–
–

86
87
88
89
90

Turkmenistan
St. Vincent & the Grenadines
Turkey
Paraguay
Jordan

1927
1951
1930
1961
1974

1927
1951
1934
1961
1974

1990 E
1979 E
1935 A
1963 E
1989 A

..
0.0
0.0
..
0.0

26
10
1
6
..

26.0
22.7
4.4
8.8
5.5

–
–
–
8.9
12.7

91
92
93
94
95

Azerbaijan
Tunisia
Grenada
China
Dominica

1921
1957, 1959
1951
1949
1951

1921
1957, 1959
1951
1949
1951

1990 E
1959 E
1976 E+A
1954 E
1980 E

2.6
10.0
25.0
5.1
0.0

..
4
..
21
10

10.5
11.5
26.7
20.2
18.8

–
–
30.8
–
–

Sri Lanka
Georgia
Dominican Republic
Belize
Ecuador

1931
1918, 1921
1942
1954
1929, 1967

1931
1918, 1921
1942
1954
1929, 1967

1947 E
1992 E
1942 E
1984 E+A
1956 E

..
9.7
..
11.1
20.0

5
..
8
..
5

4.4
7.2
17.3
3.3
16.0

96
97
98
99
100

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

e

e

e

e

e

e

e

e

e

g

g

j

–
–
6.3
23.1
–

g

j

235

29 Women’s
political
participation

Year women received right a
To stand for
To vote
election

HDI rank
101
102
103
104
105

Iran, Islamic Rep. of
Occupied Palestinian Territories
El Salvador
Guyana
Cape Verde

106
107
108
109
110

Year first woman
elected (E) or
appointed (A)
to parliament

1963
..
1939
1953
1975

1963
..
1961
1945
1975

1963 E+A
..
1961 E
1968 E
1975 E

Syrian Arab Republic
Uzbekistan
Algeria
Equatorial Guinea
Kyrgyzstan

1949, 1953
1938
1962
1963
1918

1953
1938
1962
1963
1918

1973 E
1990 E
1962 A
1968 E
1990 E

111
112
113
114
115

Indonesia
Viet Nam
Moldova, Rep. of
Bolivia
Honduras

1945
1946
1978, 1993
1938, 1952
1955

1945
1946
1978, 1993
1938, 1952
1955

1950 A
1976 E
1990 E
1966 E
1957

116
117
118
119
120

Tajikistan
Mongolia
Nicaragua
South Africa
Egypt

1924
1924
1955
1930, 1994
1956

1924
1924
1955
1930, 1994
1956

1990 E
1951 E
1972 E
1933 E
1957 E

121
122
123
124
125

Guatemala
Gabon
São Tomé and Principe
Solomon Islands
Morocco

1946
1956
1975
1974
1963

1946
1956
1975
1974
1963

126
127
128
129
130

Namibia
India
Botswana
Vanuatu
Cambodia

1989
1950
1965
1975, 1980
1955

131
132
133
134
135

Ghana
Myanmar
Papua New Guinea
Bhutan
Lao People’s Dem. Rep.

136
137
138
139
140
141

Comoros
Swaziland
Bangladesh
Sudan
Nepal
Cameroon

Women in
government at
ministerial level
(% of total) b
2001

MDG
Seats in parliament held by women
(% of total) c
Lower or
Upper house
single house
or senate
1990
2004
2004

9.4
..
15.4
..
35.0

2
..
12
37
12

4.1
..
10.7
20.0
11.1

–
..
–
–
–

11.1
4.4
0.0
..
..

9
..
2.
13
..

12.0
7.2
6.2
5.0
10.0

–
–
..
–
2.2

5.9
..
..
..
33.3

12
18
..
9
10

8.0
27.3
12.9
18.5
5.5

–
–
–
14.8
–

..
10.0
23.1
38.1
6.1

..
25
15
3
4

12.7
10.5
20.7
29.8
2.4

11.8
–
–
31.5
5.7

1956 E
1961 E
1975 E
1993 E
1993 E

7.1
12.1
..
..
4.9

7
13
12
..
..

8.2
9.2
9.1
0.0
10.8

–
13.2
–
–
..

1989
1950
1965
1975, 1980
1955

1989 E
1952 E
1979 E
1987 E
1958 E

16.3
10.1
26.7
..
7.1

7
5
5
4
..

26.4
8.8
17.0
1.9
9.8

7.7
10.3
–
–
13.1

1954
1935
1964
1953
1958

1954
1946
1963
1953
1958

1960 A
1947 E
1977 E
1975 E
1958 E

8.6
..
0.0
..
10.2

..
..
..
2
6

9.0
..
0.9
9.3
22.9

1956
1968
1972
1964
1951
1946

1956
1968
1972
1964
1951
1946

1993 E
1972 E+A
1973 E
1964 E
1952 A
1960 E

..
12.5
9.5
5.1
14.8
5.8

..
4
10
..
6
14

–
10.8
2.0
9.7
5.9
8.9

1947
1945
1963
1965
1962

1947
1945
1963
1965
1962

1973 E
1961 E
1963 E
1965 A
1962 A

..
7.4
..
..
27.1

10
5
14
..
12

21.6
7.4
8.5
11.7
24.7

18.0
–
15.0
36.4
–

1957
1919, 1963
1967
1959
1958

1978
1919, 1963
1967
1959
1958

1980 E+A
1969 E+A
1990 E
1965 E
..

36.0
1.4
..
12.5
22.6

11
1
4
7
..

10.0
7.1
0.3
3.8
6.7

–
–
–
11.1
2.8

e

e

l
e

l

n

o

–
..
–
–
–
–
30.0
–
–
..
–

k

m

n

o

Low human development
142
143
144
145
146

Pakistan
Togo
Congo
Lesotho
Uganda

147
148
149
150
151

Zimbabwe
Kenya
Yemen
Madagascar
Nigeria

236

l

p

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

29 Women’s
political
participation

Year women received right a
To stand for
To vote
election

HDI rank

Year first woman
elected (E) or
appointed (A)
to parliament

Women in
government at
ministerial level
(% of total) b
2001

MDG
Seats in parliament held by women
(% of total) c
Lower or
Upper house
single house
or senate
1990
2004
2004

152
153
154
155
156

Mauritania
Haiti
Djibouti
Gambia
Eritrea

1961
1950
1946
1960
1955

1961
1950
1986
1960
1955

1975 E
1961 E
2003 E
1982 E
1994 E

13.6
18.2
5.0
30.8
11.8

..
..
..
8
..

3.7
3.6
10.8
13.2
22.0

157
158
159
160
161

Senegal
Timor-Leste
Rwanda
Guinea
Benin

1945
..
1961
1958
1956

1945
..
1961
1958
1956

1963 E
..
1965
1963 E
1979 E

15.6
..
13.0
11.1
10.5

13
..
17
..
3

19.2
26.1
48.8
19.3
7.2

162
163
164
165
166

Tanzania, U. Rep. of
Côte d’Ivoire
Zambia
Malawi
Angola

1959
1952
1962
1961
1975

1959
1952
1962
1961
1975

..
1965 E
1964 E+A
1964 E
1980 E

..
9.1
6.2
11.8
14.7

..
6
7
10
15

21.4
8.5
12.0
9.3
15.5

–
–
–
–
–

167
168
169
170
171

Chad
Congo, Dem. Rep. of the
Central African Republic
Ethiopia
Mozambique

1958
1967
1986
1955
1975

1958
1970
1986
1955
1975

1962 E
1970 E
1987 E
1957 E
1977 E

..
..
..
22.2
..

..
5
4
..
16

5.8
8.3
–
7.7
30.0

–
–
–
8.3
–

172
173
174
175
176
177

Guinea-Bissau
Burundi
Mali
Burkina Faso
Niger
Sierra Leone

1977
1961
1956
1958
1948
1961

1977
1961
1956
1958
1948
1961

1972 A
1982 E
1964 E
1978 E
1989 E
..

8.3
4.5
33.3
8.6
10.0
8.1

20
..
..
..
5
..

–
18.4
10.2
11.7
1.2
14.5

l

5.4
25.9
–
–
–
q

o

o

–
–
30.0
–
–

–
18.9
–
–
–
–

o

o

a. Data refer to the year in which right to vote or stand for election on a universal and equal basis was recognized. Where two years are shown, the first refers to the first partial recognition of the right to vote or stand
for election. b. Data were provided by states based on their definition of national executive and may therefore include women serving as ministers and vice ministers and those holding other ministerial positions, including parliamentary secretaries. c. Data are as of 1 March 2004. The percentage was calculated using as a reference the number of total seats currently filled in parliament. d. No information is available on the year all
women received the right to stand for election. However, the constitution does not mention gender with regard to this right. e. Refers to the year women were elected to the current parliamentary system. f. Women’s
right to vote and to stand for election has not been recognized. g. Brunei Darussalam, Oman and Qatar have never had a parliament. h. According to the constitution in force (1973), all citizens are equal before the law;
however, women were not able to exercise electoral rights in the first legislative elections held in 1973. The first legislature was dissolved by decree of the Emir on 26 August 1975. i. Women were allowed to vote in the
referendum of 14-15 February 2001, which approved the National Action Charter. Subsequently, women exercised their full political rights as both voters and candidates in the 2002 national elections. j. Elections were
held in November 2003. However, on 25 November 2003, the election results were annuled by the Supreme Court of Georgia. New elections will be held in March 2004. k. As of 1 March 2004, elections were continuing and the number of women in parliament was subsequently unavailable. l. No information or confirmation available. m. The figures on the distribution of seats do not include the 36 special rotating delegates appointed
on an ad hoc basis, and the percentages given are therefore calculated on the basis of the 54 permanent seats. n. The parliament elected in 1990 has never been convened nor authorized to sit, and many of its members
were detained or forced into exile. o. Parliament has been dissolved or suspended for an indefinite period. p. Pakistan had 7 women in government at ministerial levels in 2000 and 11 in 2004 (UNDP 2004). This is not
reflected in the international data series currently available. Updates to this series are expected soon. q. The purpose of elections held on 30 August 2001 was to elect members of the Constituent Assembly of Timor-Leste.
This body became the National Parliament on 20 May 2002, the date on which the country became independent, without any new elections.
Source: Columns 1-3: IPU 1995 and IPU 2004a; column 4: IPU 2001; column 5: UN 2004e; columns 6 and 7: IPU 2004b.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

237

HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS INSTRUMENTS

30 Status of major
international
human rights
instruments

HDI rank

International
Convention on
the Prevention
and Punishment
of the Crime
of Genocide
1948

International
Convention on
the Elimination
of All Forms
of Racial
Discrimination
1965

International
Covenant
on Civil and
Political Rights
1966

International
Covenant
on Economic,
Social and
Cultural Rights
1966

Convention on
the Elimination
of All Forms of
Discrimination
against Women
1979

Convention
against Torture
and Other
Cruel, Inhuman
or Degrading
Treatment or
Punishment
1984

Convention
on the
Rights of
the Child
1989

High human development
1
2
3
4
5

Norway
Sweden
Australia
Canada
Netherlands

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

6
7
8
9
10

Belgium
Iceland
United States
Japan
Ireland

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

11
12
13
14
15

Switzerland
United Kingdom
Finland
Austria
Luxembourg

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

16
17
18
19
20

France
Denmark
New Zealand
Germany
Spain

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

21
22
24
25
26

Italy
Israel
Greece
Singapore
Portugal

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●

●

●

●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

27
28
29
30
31

Slovenia
Korea, Rep. of
Barbados
Cyprus
Malta

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●

32
33
34
35
36

Czech Republic
Brunei Darussalam
Argentina
Seychelles
Estonia

●

●

●

●

●

●

●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●

37
38
39
40
41

Poland
Hungary
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Bahrain
Lithuania

●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●

●

●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●

●
●
●
●
●

42
43
44
45
46

Slovakia
Chile
Kuwait
Costa Rica
Uruguay

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

47
48
49
50
51

Qatar
Croatia
United Arab Emirates
Latvia
Bahamas

●

●

●

●
●

●

●

●
●

●
●
●
●
●

238

●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●

●
●

●

●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

30 Status of major
international
human rights
instruments

HDI rank
52
53
54
55

Cuba
Mexico
Trinidad and Tobago
Antigua and Barbuda

International
Convention on
the Prevention
and Punishment
of the Crime
of Genocide
1948

International
Convention on
the Elimination
of All Forms
of Racial
Discrimination
1965

●
●
●
●

Convention
against Torture
and Other
Cruel, Inhuman
or Degrading
Treatment or
Punishment
1984

International
Covenant
on Civil and
Political Rights
1966

International
Covenant
on Economic,
Social and
Cultural Rights
1966

Convention on
the Elimination
of All Forms of
Discrimination
against Women
1979

●
●
●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●

●
●
●

●

Convention
on the
Rights of
the Child
1989
●
●
●
●

Medium human development
56
57
58
59
60

Bulgaria
Russian Federation
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
Malaysia
Macedonia, TFYR

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●

●

●

●

●
●
●
●
●

61
62
63
64
65

Panama
Belarus
Tonga
Mauritius
Albania

●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●

66
67
68
69
70

Bosnia and Herzegovina
Suriname
Venezuela
Romania
Ukraine

●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●

71
72
73
74
75

Saint Lucia
Brazil
Colombia
Oman
Samoa (Western)

●
●
●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●
●

76
77
78
79
80

Thailand
Saudi Arabia
Kazakhstan
Jamaica
Lebanon

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

81
82
83
84
85

Fiji
Armenia
Philippines
Maldives
Peru

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

86
87
88
89
90

Turkmenistan
St. Vincent & the Grenadines
Turkey
Paraguay
Jordan

●
●
●
●

91
92
93
94
95

Azerbaijan
Tunisia
Grenada
China
Dominica

●
●

Sri Lanka
Georgia
Dominican Republic
Belize
Ecuador

96
97
98
99
100

●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●

●

●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●

●
●

●

●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

●

●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●

●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●

●

●
●
●
●
●

239

30 Status of major
international
human rights
instruments

HDI rank

Convention
against Torture
and Other
Cruel, Inhuman
or Degrading
Treatment or
Punishment
1984

International
Convention on
the Prevention
and Punishment
of the Crime
of Genocide
1948

International
Convention on
the Elimination
of All Forms
of Racial
Discrimination
1965

International
Covenant
on Civil and
Political Rights
1966

International
Covenant
on Economic,
Social and
Cultural Rights
1966

Convention on
the Elimination
of All Forms of
Discrimination
against Women
1979

●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

Convention
on the
Rights of
the Child
1989

101
103
104
105
106

Iran, Islamic Rep. of
El Salvador
Guyana
Cape Verde
Syrian Arab Republic

107
108
109
110
111

Uzbekistan
Algeria
Equatorial Guinea
Kyrgyzstan
Indonesia

●
●

112
113
114
115
116

Viet Nam
Moldova, Rep. of
Bolivia
Honduras
Tajikistan

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

117
118
119
120
121

Mongolia
Nicaragua
South Africa
Egypt
Guatemala

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

122
123
124
125
126

Gabon
São Tomé and Principe
Solomon Islands
Morocco
Namibia

●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●

●
●
●
●
●

127
128
129
130
131

India
Botswana
Vanuatu
Cambodia
Ghana

●

●
●

●
●

●

●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●
●
●
●

132
133
134
135
136

Myanmar
Papua New Guinea
Bhutan
Lao People’s Dem. Rep.
Comoros

●
●

137
138
139
140
141

Swaziland
Bangladesh
Sudan
Nepal
Cameroon

●

●

●
●

●

●
●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●

●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●

Low human development
142
143
144
145
146

Pakistan
Togo
Congo
Lesotho
Uganda

147
148
149
150
151

Zimbabwe
Kenya
Yemen
Madagascar
Nigeria

240

●
●
●
●
●
●

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

30 Status of major
international
human rights
instruments

HDI rank
152
153
154
155
156

Mauritania
Haiti
Djibouti
Gambia
Eritrea

157
158
159
160
161

International
Convention on
the Prevention
and Punishment
of the Crime
of Genocide
1948

International
Convention on
the Elimination
of All Forms
of Racial
Discrimination
1965

●

●
●

International
Covenant
on Civil and
Political Rights
1966

International
Covenant
on Economic,
Social and
Cultural Rights
1966

Convention on
the Elimination
of All Forms of
Discrimination
against Women
1979

●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

Convention
against Torture
and Other
Cruel, Inhuman
or Degrading
Treatment or
Punishment
1984

Convention
on the
Rights of
the Child
1989
●
●
●
●
●

●

●
●

●
●
●
●

Senegal
Timor-Leste
Rwanda
Guinea
Benin

●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

162
163
164
165
166

Tanzania, U. Rep. of
Côte d’Ivoire
Zambia
Malawi
Angola

●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

167
168
169
170
171

Chad
Congo, Dem. Rep. of the
Central African Republic
Ethiopia
Mozambique

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

172
173
174
175
176
177

Guinea-Bissau
Burundi
Mali
Burkina Faso
Niger
Sierra Leone

●
●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●
●

●
●

●
●

●

●
●

●
●

●
●

●

●

●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●

●
●

●

●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●

169
7

151
8

148
7

175
1

●
●

●
●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●

Others a
Afghanistan
Andorra
Cook Islands
Holy See
Iraq
Kiribati
Korea, Dem. Rep.
Liberia
Liechtenstein
Marshall Islands
Micronesia, Fed. Sts.
Monaco
Nauru
Niue
Palau
San Marino
Serbia and Montenegro
Somalia
Tuvalu
Total states parties b
Signatures not yet followed by ratification

●

●
●
●
●

●

●

135
2

●

●

●
●

●

●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●
●

134
12

192
2

● Ratification, accession or succession. ● Signature not yet followed by ratification.
Note: The table includes states that have signed or ratified at least one of the seven human rights instruments. Information is as of March 2004.
a. These are the countries or areas, in addition to the 177 countries or areas included in the main indicator tables, that have signed or ratified at least one of the seven human rights instruments. b. Refers to ratification,
accession or succession.
Source: Columns 1-7: UN 2004f.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

241

HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS INSTRUMENTS

31 Status of
fundamental
labour rights
conventions
Freedom of association
and collective bargaining
Convention Convention
98 b
87 a

HDI rank

Elimination of forced
and compulsory labour
Convention
Convention
29 c
105 d

Elimination of
discrimination in respect of
employment and occupation
Convention
Convention
100 e
111 f

Abolition of child labour
Convention
Convention
138 g
182 h

High human development
1
2
3
4
5

Norway
Sweden
Australia
Canada
Netherlands

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●

●
●

●

●

●

●
●

6
7
8
9
10

Belgium
Iceland
United States
Japan
Ireland

●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●

●

●
●

●

●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●

11
12
13
14
15

Switzerland
United Kingdom
Finland
Austria
Luxembourg

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

16
17
18
19
20

France
Denmark
New Zealand
Germany
Spain

●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

21
22
24
25
26

Italy
Israel
Greece
Singapore
Portugal

●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
▼
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●

●

●
●
●
●
●

●

●

●
●
●

27
28
29
30
31

Slovenia
Korea, Rep. of
Barbados
Cyprus
Malta

●

●

●

●

●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

32
33
34
35
36

Czech Republic
Brunei Darussalam
Argentina
Seychelles
Estonia

●

●

●

●

●

●

●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●
●

37
38
39
40
41

Poland
Hungary
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Bahrain
Lithuania

●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●

●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●

●

●
●
●
●
●

●

●
●
●
●
●

42
43
44
45
46

Slovakia
Chile
Kuwait
Costa Rica
Uruguay

●
●
●
●
●

●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

47
48
49
50
51

Qatar
Croatia
United Arab Emirates
Latvia
Bahamas

●

●

●
●

●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●

●
●
●

●

●

242

●
●

●
●

●
●
●
●

●

●

●

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

31 Status of
fundamental
labour rights
conventions
Freedom of association
and collective bargaining
Convention Convention
98 b
87 a

HDI rank
52
53
54
55

Cuba
Mexico
Trinidad and Tobago
Antigua and Barbuda

●
●
●
●

●

Elimination of forced
and compulsory labour
Convention
Convention
29 c
105 d

Elimination of
discrimination in respect of
employment and occupation
Convention
Convention
100 e
111 f

Abolition of child labour
Convention
Convention
138 g
182 h

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●

●

●
●

●
●
●
●

●

●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
▼
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

Medium human development
56
57
58
59
60

Bulgaria
Russian Federation
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
Malaysia
Macedonia, TFYR

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●

●
●
●
●
●

61
62
63
64
65

Panama
Belarus
Tonga
Mauritius
Albania

●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●

●

●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●

66
67
68
69
70

Bosnia and Herzegovina
Suriname
Venezuela
Romania
Ukraine

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●

●

●

●

●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●

71
72
73
74
75

Saint Lucia
Brazil
Colombia
Oman
Samoa (Western)

●

●
●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●

76
77
78
79
80

Thailand
Saudi Arabia
Kazakhstan
Jamaica
Lebanon

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●

81
82
83
84
85

Fiji
Armenia
Philippines
Maldives
Peru

●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●

86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100

●

●

●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●
●

●

●
●
●
●
●

●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●

●
●
●

●

●

●

●
●
●

●

●

●

●

●

Turkmenistan
St. Vincent & the Grenadines
Turkey
Paraguay
Jordan

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

Azerbaijan
Tunisia
Grenada
China
Dominica

●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●

●

●

●

Sri Lanka
Georgia
Dominican Republic
Belize
Ecuador

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

●
●

243

31 Status of
fundamental
labour rights
conventions
Freedom of association
and collective bargaining
Convention Convention
87 a
98 b

HDI rank

Elimination of forced
and compulsory labour
Convention
Convention
29 c
105 d

Elimination of
discrimination in respect of
employment and occupation
Convention
Convention
100 e
111 f

●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

Uzbekistan
Algeria
Equatorial Guinea
Kyrgyzstan
Indonesia

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●

112
113
114
115
116

Viet Nam
Moldova, Rep. of
Bolivia
Honduras
Tajikistan

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●

117
118
119
120
121

Mongolia
Nicaragua
South Africa
Egypt
Guatemala

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

122
123
124
125
126

Gabon
São Tomé and Principe
Solomon Islands
Morocco
Namibia

●
●

●
●

●

●

●
●

●

●
●

●
●
●

●
●

●
●

●

●
●

●
●

●
●

127
128
129
130
131

India
Botswana
Vanuatu
Cambodia
Ghana

●

●

●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●

●

●

●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●

●
●

●

132
133
134
135
136

Myanmar
Papua New Guinea
Bhutan
Lao People’s Dem. Rep.
Comoros

●
●

●

●
●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●
●

●

●

137
138
139
140
141

Swaziland
Bangladesh
Sudan
Nepal
Cameroon

●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

101
103
104
105
106

Iran, Islamic Rep. of
El Salvador
Guyana
Cape Verde
Syrian Arab Republic

107
108
109
110
111

●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

Abolition of child labour
Convention
Convention
138 g
182 h

●

●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●

●

●

Low human development
142
143
144
145
146

Pakistan
Togo
Congo
Lesotho
Uganda

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●

147
148
149
150
151

Zimbabwe
Kenya
Yemen
Madagascar
Nigeria

●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

244

●
●
●

●

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

31 Status of
fundamental
labour rights
conventions
Freedom of association
and collective bargaining
Convention Convention
87 a
98 b

HDI rank

Elimination of forced
and compulsory labour
Convention
Convention
29 c
105 d

Elimination of
discrimination in respect of
employment and occupation
Convention
Convention
100 e
111 f

Abolition of child labour
Convention
Convention
138 g
182 h

152
153
154
155
156

Mauritania
Haiti
Djibouti
Gambia
Eritrea

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●

●

●

●
●

●
●

●

157
158
159
160
161

Senegal
Timor-Leste
Rwanda
Guinea
Benin

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●

●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●

162
163
164
165
166

Tanzania, U. Rep. of
Côte d’Ivoire
Zambia
Malawi
Angola

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

167
168
169
170
171

Chad
Congo, Dem. Rep. of the
Central African Republic
Ethiopia
Mozambique

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

172
173
174
175
176
177

Guinea-Bissau
Burundi
Mali
Burkina Faso
Niger
Sierra Leone

●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●

●
●
●
●
●

●
●

●
●

●

●

●

●
●

●

●
●

●

●

●
●

●
●

●

●
●

●

●

142

154

163

159

161

159

132

147

Others i
Afghanistan
Iraq
Kiribati
Liberia
San Marino
Serbia and Montenegro
Somalia
Total ratifications

● Convention ratified. ▼ Convention denounced.
Note: Table includes UN member states.
a. Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organize Convention (1948). b. Right to Organize and Collective Bargaining Convention (1949). c. Forced Labour Convention (1930). d. Abolition of Forced Labour
Convention (1957). e. Equal Remuneration Convention (1951). f. Discrimination (Employment and Occupation) Convention (1958). g. Minimum Age Convention (1973). h. Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention (1999).
i. States not included in the human development index that have ratified at least one labour rights convention.
Source: Columns 1-8: ILO 2004a.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

245

32 Human development indices:
a regional
perspective

Human development index (HDI)
1975
1990
2002

Human poverty
index for
developing countries
(HPI-1)

Human poverty
index for selected
high-income
OECD countries
(HPI-2)

Gender
Gender-related
empowerment
development index
measure
(GDI)
(GEM)

Arab States
108
40
154
120
90

Algeria
Bahrain
Djibouti
Egypt
Jordan

0.504
..
..
0.438
..

0.642
0.808
..
0.577
0.682

0.704
0.843
0.454
0.653
0.750

21.9
..
34.3
30.9
7.2

..
..
..
..
..

0.688
0.832
..
0.634
0.734

..
0.395
..
0.266
..

44
80
58
125
102

Kuwait
Lebanon
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
Morocco
Occupied Palestinian Territories

0.761
..
..
0.429
..

..
0.673
..
0.542
..

0.838
0.758
0.794
0.620
0.726

..
9.5
15.3
34.5
..

..
..
..
..
..

0.827
0.755
..
0.604
..

..
..
..
..
..

74
47
77
139
106

Oman
Qatar
Saudi Arabia
Sudan
Syrian Arab Republic

0.493
..
0.602
0.344
0.534

0.696
..
0.707
0.427
0.635

0.770
0.833
0.768
0.505
0.710

31.5
..
15.8
31.6
13.7

..
..
..
..
..

0.747
..
0.739
0.485
0.689

..
..
0.207
..
..

92 Tunisia
49 United Arab Emirates
149 Yemen

0.516
0.744
..

0.656
0.805
0.392

0.745
0.824
0.482

19.2
..
40.3

..
..
..

0.734
..
0.436

..
..
0.123

East Asia and the Pacific
33
130
94
81
23

Brunei Darussalam
Cambodia
China
Fiji
Hong Kong, China (SAR)

..
..
0.523
0.659
0.760

..
..
0.627
0.722
0.862

0.867
0.568
0.745
0.758
0.903

..
42.6
13.2
21.3
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
0.557
0.741
0.747
0.898

..
0.364
..
0.335
..

111
28
135
59
117

Indonesia
Korea, Rep. of
Lao People’s Dem. Rep.
Malaysia
Mongolia

0.467
0.705
..
0.614
..

0.623
0.817
0.449
0.720
0.656

0.692
0.888
0.534
0.793
0.668

17.8
..
40.3
..
19.1

..
..
..
..
..

0.685
0.882
0.528
0.786
0.664

..
0.377
..
0.519
0.429

132
133
83
75
25

Myanmar
Papua New Guinea
Philippines
Samoa (Western)
Singapore

..
0.423
0.653
..
0.724

..
0.482
0.719
..
0.821

0.551
0.542
0.753
0.769
0.902

25.4
37.0
15.0
..
6.3

..
..
..
..
..

..
0.536
0.751
..
0.884

..
..
0.542
..
0.648

124
76
158
63
129
112

Solomon Islands
Thailand
Timor-Leste
Tonga
Vanuatu
Viet Nam

..
0.613
..
..
..
..

..
0.707
..
..
..
0.610

0.624
0.768
0.436
0.787
0.570
0.691

..
13.1
..
..
..
20.0

..
..
..
..
..
..

..
0.766
..
..
..
0.689

..
0.461
..
..
..
..

Antigua and Barbuda
Argentina
Bahamas
Barbados
Belize

..
0.784
..
0.804
..

..
0.810
0.825
0.851
0.747

0.800
0.853
0.815
0.888
0.737

..
..
..
2.5
16.7

..
..
..
..
..

..
0.841
0.813
0.884
0.718

..
0.645
0.699
0.634
0.455

Bolivia
Brazil
Chile
Colombia
Costa Rica

0.512
0.644
0.703
0.661
0.745

0.603
0.714
0.784
0.727
0.791

0.681
0.775
0.839
0.773
0.834

14.4
11.8
4.1
8.1
4.4

..
..
..
..
..

0.674
0.768
0.830
0.770
0.823

0.524
..
0.460
0.498
0.664

Latin America and the Caribbean
55
34
51
29
99
114
72
43
73
45

246

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

32 Human development indices:
a regional
perspective

Human development index (HDI)
1975
1990
2002

Human poverty
index for
developing countries
(HPI-1)

Human poverty
index for selected
high-income
OECD countries
(HPI-2)

Gender
Gender-related
empowerment
development index
measure
(GDI)
(GEM)

52
95
98
100
103

Cuba
Dominica
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
El Salvador

..
..
0.617
0.630
0.590

..
..
0.678
0.710
0.648

0.809
0.743
0.738
0.735
0.720

5.0
..
13.7
12.0
17.0

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
0.728
0.721
0.709

..
..
0.527
0.490
0.448

93
121
104
153
115

Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Haiti
Honduras

..
0.510
0.677
..
0.517

..
0.583
0.697
0.455
0.624

0.745
0.649
0.719
0.463
0.672

..
22.5
12.9
41.1
16.6

..
..
..
..
..

..
0.635
0.715
0.458
0.662

..
..
..
..
0.355

79
53
118
61
89

Jamaica
Mexico
Nicaragua
Panama
Paraguay

0.687
0.688
0.565
0.708
0.667

0.726
0.761
0.589
0.748
0.719

0.764
0.802
0.667
0.791
0.751

9.2
9.1
18.3
7.7
10.6

..
..
..
..
..

0.762
0.792
0.660
0.785
0.736

..
0.563
..
0.486
0.417

Peru
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
St. Vincent & the Grenadines
Suriname

0.642
..
..
..
..

0.706
..
..
..
..

0.752
0.844
0.777
0.751
0.780

13.2
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

0.736
..
..
..
..

0.524
..
..
..
..

0.735
0.759
0.716

0.791
0.803
0.759

0.801
0.833
0.778

7.7
3.6
8.5

..
..
..

0.795
0.829
0.770

0.644
0.511
0.444

0.345
..
0.411
0.565
..

0.417
..
0.514
0.649
..

0.509
0.536
0.595
0.732
0.752

42.2
..
31.4
16.4
11.4

..
..
..
..
..

0.499
..
0.572
0.713
..

0.218
..
..
0.313
..

0.291
0.346
0.613

0.418
0.444
0.698

0.504
0.497
0.740

41.2
41.9
18.2

..
..
..

0.484
0.471
0.738

..
0.416
0.276

..
0.590

0.835
0.683

0.883
0.751

..
12.0

..
..

0.875
0.746

0.497
0.290

85
39
71
87
67

54 Trinidad and Tobago
46 Uruguay
68 Venezuela
South Asia
138
134
127
101
84

Bangladesh
Bhutan
India
Iran, Islamic Rep. of
Maldives

140 Nepal
142 Pakistan
96 Sri Lanka
Southern Europe
30 Cyprus
88 Turkey
Sub-Saharan Africa
166
161
128
175
173

Angola
Benin
Botswana
Burkina Faso
Burundi

..
0.288
0.503
0.239
0.282

..
0.356
0.675
0.302
0.338

0.381
0.421
0.589
0.302
0.339

..
45.7
43.5
65.5
45.8

..
..
..
..
..

..
0.406
0.581
0.291
0.337

..
..
0.562
..
..

141
105
169
167
136

Cameroon
Cape Verde
Central African Republic
Chad
Comoros

0.415
..
0.334
0.260
..

0.519
0.623
0.375
0.326
0.501

0.501
0.717
0.361
0.379
0.530

36.9
19.7
47.7
49.6
31.4

..
..
..
..
..

0.491
0.709
0.345
0.368
0.510

..
..
..
..
..

144
168
163
109
156

Congo
Congo, Dem. Rep. of the
Côte d’Ivoire
Equatorial Guinea
Eritrea

0.451
0.410
0.382
..
..

0.532
0.414
0.429
0.504
..

0.494
0.365
0.399
0.703
0.439

31.9
42.9
45.0
32.7
41.8

..
..
..
..
..

0.488
0.355
0.379
0.691
0.431

..
..
..
..
..

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

247

32 Human development indices:
a regional
perspective

Human development index (HDI)
1975
1990
2002

Human poverty
index for
developing countries
(HPI-1)

Human poverty
index for selected
high-income
OECD countries
(HPI-2)

Gender
Gender-related
empowerment
development index
measure
(GDI)
(GEM)

170
122
155
131
160

Ethiopia
Gabon
Gambia
Ghana
Guinea

..
..
0.283
0.439
..

0.305
..
..
0.511
..

0.359
0.648
0.452
0.568
0.425

55.5
..
45.8
26.0
..

..
..
..
..
..

0.346
..
0.446
0.564
..

..
..
..
..
..

172
148
145
150
165

Guinea-Bissau
Kenya
Lesotho
Madagascar
Malawi

0.254
0.445
0.457
0.400
0.315

0.311
0.540
0.544
0.436
0.368

0.350
0.488
0.493
0.469
0.388

48.0
37.5
47.9
35.9
46.8

..
..
..
..
..

0.329
0.486
0.483
0.462
0.374

..
..
..
..
..

174
152
64
171
126

Mali
Mauritania
Mauritius
Mozambique
Namibia

0.232
0.339
..
..
..

0.288
0.387
0.723
0.310
..

0.326
0.465
0.785
0.354
0.607

58.9
48.3
11.3
49.8
37.7

..
..
..
..
..

0.309
0.456
0.775
0.339
0.602

..
..
..
..
0.572

176
151
159
123
157

Niger
Nigeria
Rwanda
São Tomé and Principe
Senegal

0.237
0.324
0.341
..
0.315

0.259
0.430
0.351
..
0.382

0.292
0.466
0.431
0.645
0.437

61.4
35.1
44.7
..
44.1

..
..
..
..
..

0.278
0.458
0.423
..
0.429

..
..
..
..
..

35
177
119
137
162

Seychelles
Sierra Leone
South Africa
Swaziland
Tanzania, U. Rep. of

..
..
0.655
0.516
..

..
..
0.729
0.611
0.413

0.853
0.273
0.666
0.519
0.407

..
..
31.7
..
36.0

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
0.661
0.505
0.401

..
..
..
0.487
..

143
146
164
147

Togo
Uganda
Zambia
Zimbabwe

0.396
..
0.466
0.547

0.474
0.395
0.466
0.617

0.495
0.493
0.389
0.491

38.0
36.4
50.4
52.0

..
..
..
..

0.477
0.487
0.375
0.482

..
..
..
..

Central & Eastern Europe & CIS
65
82
91
62
66

Albania
Armenia
Azerbaijan
Belarus
Bosnia and Herzegovina

..
..
..
..
..

0.702
0.751
..
0.785
..

0.781
0.754
0.746
0.790
0.781

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

0.778
0.752
..
0.789
..

..
..
..
..
..

56
48
32
36
97

Bulgaria
Croatia
Czech Republic
Estonia
Georgia

..
..
..
..
..

0.795
0.806
..
0.817
..

0.796
0.830
0.868
0.853
0.739

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

0.795
0.827
0.865
0.852
..

..
0.560
0.586
0.592
0.387

0.777
..
..
..
..

0.807
0.767
..
0.807
0.823

0.848
0.766
0.701
0.823
0.842

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

0.847
0.761
..
0.823
0.841

0.529
..
..
0.591
0.508

38
78
110
50
41

248

Hungary
Kazakhstan
Kyrgyzstan
Latvia
Lithuania

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

32 Human development indices:
a regional
perspective

Human development index (HDI)
1975
1990
2002

Human poverty
index for
developing countries
(HPI-1)

Human poverty
index for selected
high-income
OECD countries
(HPI-2)

Gender
Gender-related
empowerment
development index
measure
(GDI)
(GEM)

60
113
37
69
57

Macedonia, TFYR
Moldova, Rep. of
Poland
Romania
Russian Federation

..
..
..
..
..

..
0.736
0.802
0.771
0.813

0.793
0.681
0.850
0.778
0.795

..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

..
0.678
0.848
0.775
0.794

0.517
0.469
0.606
0.465
0.467

42
27
116
86
70
107

Slovakia
Slovenia
Tajikistan
Turkmenistan
Ukraine
Uzbekistan

..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
0.719
..
0.798
..

0.842
0.895
0.671
0.752
0.777
0.709

..
..
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..
..

0.840
0.892
0.668
0.748
0.773
0.705

0.607
0.584
..
..
0.411
..

High-income OECD a
3
14
6
4
17

Australia
Austria
Belgium
Canada
Denmark

0.847
0.842
0.845
0.869
0.872

0.892
0.893
0.897
0.928
0.897

0.946
0.934
0.942
0.943
0.932

..
..
..
..
..

12.9
..
12.4
12.2
9.1

0.945
0.924
0.938
0.941
0.931

0.806
0.770
0.808
0.787
0.847

13
15
19
24
7

Finland
Luxembourg
Germany
Greece
Iceland

0.839
0.838
..
0.832
0.862

0.899
0.882
0.887
0.870
0.913

0.935
0.933
0.925
0.902
0.941

..
..
..
..
..

8.4
10.5
10.3
..
..

0.933
0.926
0.921
0.894
0.938

0.820
..
0.804
0.523
0.816

10
22
21
9
16

Ireland
Israel
Italy
Japan
France

0.810
0.794
0.841
0.854
0.852

0.869
0.857
0.887
0.910
0.902

0.936
0.908
0.920
0.938
0.932

..
..
..
..
..

15.3
..
11.6
11.1
10.8

0.929
0.906
0.914
0.932
0.929

0.710
0.614
0.583
0.531
..

31
5
18
1
26

Malta
Netherlands
New Zealand
Norway
Portugal

0.726
0.865
0.847
0.866
0.785

0.824
0.907
0.874
0.911
0.847

0.875
0.942
0.926
0.956
0.897

..
..
..
..
..

..
8.2
..
7.1
..

0.866
0.938
0.924
0.955
0.894

0.480
0.817
0.772
0.908
0.644

20
2
11
12
8

Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
United Kingdom
United States

0.836
0.863
0.878
0.845
0.866

0.885
0.895
0.909
0.883
0.914

0.922
0.946
0.936
0.936
0.939

..
..
..
..
..

11.0
6.5
..
14.8
15.8

0.916
0.946
0.932
0.934
0.936

0.716
0.854
0.771
0.698
0.769

Note: The best value in each index and region is presented in bold.
a. Excludes the Republic of Korea; see East Asia and the Pacific. Includes Israel and Malta, although they are not OECD countries.
Source: Column 1: column 1 of table 2; column 2: column 4 of table 2; column 3: column 8 of table 1; column 4: column 2 of table 3; column 5: column 2 of table 4; column 6: column 2 of table 24; column 7: column
2 of table 25.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS

249

33 Basic indicators
for other UN
member
countries

MDG
Human development index components
Population
Combined gross
with
enrolment ratio
MDG
MDG
MDG
sustainable
Adult
for primary,
Total
Under-five
Net
Under- access to an
Life
literacy
secondary
fertility mortality primary
HIV
nourished improved
water
expectancy
rate
and tertiary
GDP
Total
rate
rate
enrolment prevalence b people
at birth (% ages 15
schools per capita population (births per (per 1,000
ratio a
(% ages (% of total
source
(years)
and above)
(%)
(PPP US$) (thousands) woman)
live births)
(%)
15-49)
population)
(%)
2000-05 c
2002
2001/02 d
2002
2002
2000-05 c
2002
2001/02 d
2003
1999/2001 e
2000

Afghanistan
Andorra
Iraq
Kiribati
Korea, Dem. Rep.

43.1
..
60.7
..
63.1

..
..
..
..
..

14
..
57
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

22,930
69
24,510
87
22,541

6.8
..
4.8
..
2.0

257
7
125
69
55

..
..
91
..
..

..
..
<0.1 [0.2]
..
..

70
..
27
..
34

13
100
85
48
100

Liberia
Liechtenstein
Marshall Islands
Micronesia, Fed. Sts.
Monaco

41.4
..
..
68.6
..

55.9
..
..
..
..

61
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
..

3,239
33
52
108
34

6.8
..
..
3.8
..

235
11
66
24
5

70
..
100
..
..

5.9 [2.7-12.4]
..
..
..
..

42
..
..
..
..

..
..
..
..
100

Nauru
Palau
San Marino
Serbia and Montenegro
Somalia
Tuvalu

..
..
..
73.2
47.9
..

..
..
..
..
..
..

55
..
..
74
..
67

..
..
..
..
..
..

13
20
27
10,535
9,480
10

..
..
..
1.7
7.3
..

30
29
6
19
225
52

81
97
..
75
..
..

..
..
..
0.2 [0.1-0.4]
..
..

..
..
..
9
71
..

..
79
..
98
..
100

Note: This table presents data for UN member countries not included in the main indicator tables.
a. The net enrolment ratio is the ratio of enrolled children of the official age for the education level indicated to the total population of that age. b. Data refer to point and range estimates based on new estimation models developed by the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS). Range estimates are presented in square brackets. c. Data refer to estimates for the period specified. d. Data refer to the school year 2001/02.
Data for some countries may refer to national or UNESCO Institute for Statistics estimates. For details, see http://uis.unesco.org/. e. Data refer to average for the years specified.
Source: Columns 1, 5 and 6: UN 2003; column 2: UNESCO Institute for Statistics 2004a; column 3: UNESCO Institute for Statistics 2004c; column 4: World Bank 2004f; column 7: UNICEF 2003b; column 8: UNESCO
Institute for Statistics 2004c; column 9: UNAIDS 2004; column 10: FAO 2003; column 11: UNICEF 2003b, based on a joint effort by the United Nation Children’s Fund and the World Health Organization.

250

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

Note on statistics in the
Human Development Report

This Report usually presents two types of statistical information: statistics in the human development indicator tables, which provide a global
assessment of country achievements in different
areas of human development, and statistical evidence on the thematic analysis in the chapters.
This year’s Report incorporates many of the
Millennium Development Goal indicators in
the human development indicator tables (see
index to Millennium Development Goal indicators). Data for these indicators provide a statistical reference for assessing the progress in
each country towards the Millennium Development Goals and their targets.
DATA SOURCES
The Human Development Report Office is primarily a user, not a producer, of statistics. It
therefore relies on international data agencies
with the resources and expertise to collect and
compile international data on specific statistical
indicators.
HUMAN

DEVELOPMENT INDICATOR TABLES

To allow comparisons across countries and over
time, the Human Development Report Office,
to the extent possible, uses internationally comparable data produced by relevant international
data agencies or other specialized institutions in
preparing the human development indicator
tables (for information on the major agencies
providing data used in the Report, see box 1).
But many gaps still exist in the data, even in some
very basic areas of human development. While
advocating for improvements in human development data, as a principle and for practical reasons, the Human Development Report Office
does not collect data directly from countries or
make estimates to fill these data gaps.

The one exception is the human development index (HDI). The Human Development
Report Office strives to include as many UN
member countries as possible in the HDI. For
a country to be included, data ideally should be
available from the relevant international data
agencies for all four components of the index (see
Statistical feature 2, Note to table 1: About
this year’s human development index). But
for a significant number of countries data are
missing for one or more of these components. In
response to the desire of countries to be included
in the HDI, the Human Development Report
Office makes every effort in these cases to identify other reasonable estimates, working with
international data agencies, the UN Regional
Commissions, national statistical offices and
UNDP country offices. In a few cases the Human
Development Report Office has attempted to
make an estimate in consultation with regional
and national statistical offices or other experts.
MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOAL INDICATORS
The United Nations Statistics Division maintains the global Millennium Indicators Database (http://millenniumindicators.un.org),
compiled from international data series provided by the responsible international data
agencies. The database forms the statistical
basis for the UN Secretary-General’s annual
report to the UN General Assembly on global
and regional progress towards the Millennium
Development Goals and their targets. It also
feeds into other international reports providing data on the Millennium Development Goal
indicators across countries, such as this Report
and the World Bank’s annual World Development Indicators.
At the time this Report was being prepared,
the United Nations Statistics Division was

NOTE ON STATISTICS IN THE HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT

251

BOX 1

Major sources of data used in the Human Development Report
By generously sharing data, the following organizations made it possible
for the Human Development Report to publish the important human development statistics appearing in the indicator tables.
Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center (CDIAC) The CDIAC,
a data and analysis centre of the US Department of Energy, focuses on
the greenhouse effect and global climate change. It is the source of data
on carbon dioxide emissions.
Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) The FAO collects, analyses and disseminates data and information on food and agriculture. It is
the source of data on food insecurity indicators.
International Institute for Strategic Studies (IISS) An independent centre for research, information and debate on the problems of conflict, the
IISS maintains an extensive military database. The data on armed forces
are from its publication The Military Balance.
International Labour Organization (ILO) The ILO maintains an extensive statistical publication programme, with the Yearbook of Labour Statistics and the Key Indicators of the Labour Market its most comprehensive
collection of labour market data. The ILO is the source of data on wages,
employment and occupations and information on the ratification status of
labour rights conventions.
International Monetary Fund (IMF) The IMF has an extensive programme for developing and compiling statistics on international financial
transactions and balance of payments. Much of the financial data provided
to the Human Development Report Office by other agencies originates
from the IMF.
International Telecommunication Union (ITU) This specialized UN
agency maintains an extensive collection of statistics on information and
communications. The data on trends in telecommunications come from
its World Telecommunication Indicators database.
Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU) This organization provides data on
trends in political participation and structures of democracy. The Human
Development Report Office relies on the IPU for data relating to elections and information on women’s political representation.
Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) This
joint UN programme monitors the spread of HIV/AIDS and provides regular updates. The Report on the Global HIV/AIDS Epidemic, a joint
publication of UNAIDS and the World Health Organization, is the primary source of data on HIV/AIDS.
Luxembourg Income Study (LIS) A cooperative research project with
25 member countries, the LIS focuses on poverty and policy issues. It is
the source of income poverty estimates for many OECD countries.
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)
The OECD publishes data on a variety of social and economic trends in
its member countries as well as on flows of aid. This year’s Report presents data from the OECD on aid, energy, employment and education.
Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI) SIPRI conducts research on international peace and security. The SIPRI Yearbook:

252

Armaments, Disarmament and International Security is the published
source of data on military expenditure and arms transfers.
United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) UNICEF monitors the wellbeing of children and provides a wide array of data. Its State of the
World’s Children is an important source of data for the Report.
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD)
UNCTAD provides trade and economic statistics through a number of
publications, including the World Investment Report. It is the original
source of data on investment flows that the Human Development Report
Office receives from other agencies.
United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
(UNESCO) The Institute for Statistics of this specialized UN agency is
the source of data relating to education. The Human Development Report
Office relies on data in UNESCO’s statistical publications as well as data
received directly from its Institute for Statistics.
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) This UN
organization provides data on refugees through its Statistical Yearbook
or other on-line statistical publications.
United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) This UN organization carries out international comparative research to support the fight
against illicit drugs and international crime. It provides data on crime victims from the International Crime Victims Surveys.
United Nations Multilateral Treaties Deposited with the Secretary General (UN Treaty Section) The Human Development Report Office compiles information on the status of major international human rights instruments
and environmental treaties based on the database maintained by this UN office.
United Nations Population Division (UNPOP) This specialized UN
office produces international data on population trends. The Human Development Report Office relies on World Population Prospects and World
Urbanization Prospects, two of the main publications of UNPOP, and its
other publications and databases, for demographic estimates and projections.
United Nations Statistics Division (UNSD) The UNSD provides a wide range
of statistical outputs and services. Much of the national accounts data provided
to the Human Development Report Office by other agencies originates from
the UNSD. This year’s Report also presents UNSD data on trade and energy
and draws on the global Millennium Indicators Database, maintained by the
UNSD, as the source of data for the Millennium Development Goal indicators.
World Bank The World Bank produces and compiles data on economic
trends as well as a broad array of other indicators. Its World Development Indicators is the primary source for many indicators in the Report.
World Health Organization (WHO) This specialized agency maintains a large array of data series on health issues, the source for the healthrelated indicators in the Report.
World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) As a specialized UN
agency, WIPO promotes the protection of intellectual property rights
throughout the world through different kinds of cooperative efforts. It is
the source of data relating to patents.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

updating the Millennium Indicators Database
and the World Bank was completing its World
Development Indicators 2004 for publication. By generously sharing data, the World
Bank and other international agencies—such as
the United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization Institute for Statistics
(UIS), the United Nations Children’s Fund
(UNICEF) and the World Health Organization
(WHO)—enabled the Report to include not
only the existing data in the Millennium Indicators Database but also more recent estimates
for some of the Millennium Development Goal
indicators, estimates that were later to be incorporated into the database.
DATA

FOR THEMATIC ANALYSIS

The statistical evidence used in the thematic
analysis in the Report is often drawn from the
indicator tables. But a wide range of other sources
are also used, including commissioned papers,
government documents, national human development reports, reports of non-governmental
organizations, journal articles and other scholarly publications. Official statistics usually receive
priority. But because of the cutting-edge nature
of the issues discussed, relevant official statistics
may not exist, so that non-official sources of
information must be used. Nevertheless, the
Human Development Report Office is committed to relying on data compiled through scholarly and scientific research and to ensuring
impartiality in the sources of information and in
its use in the analysis.
Where information from sources other than
the Report’s indicator tables is used in boxes or
tables in the text, the source is shown and the
full citation is given in the bibliography. In addition, a summary note for each chapter outlines
the major sources for the chapter, and endnotes
specify the sources of statistical information not
drawn from the indicator tables.
THE NEED FOR BETTER HUMAN DEVELOPMENT
STATISTICS

While the indicator tables in this year’s Report
present the best data currently available for
measuring human development, many gaps and
problems remain.

DATA GAPS
Gaps throughout the indicator tables demonstrate the pressing need for improvements in the
availability of relevant, reliable and timely human
development statistics. A stark example of data
gaps is the large number of countries excluded
from the HDI. The intent is to include all UN
member countries, along with Hong Kong,
China (SAR) and the Occupied Palestinian Territories. But because of a lack of reliable data,
16 UN member countries are excluded from the
HDI and therefore from the main indicator
tables (what key indicators are available for
these countries are presented in table 33). Similarly, the human poverty index covers only 95
developing countries and 17 high-income
OECD countries, the gender-related development index 144 countries and the gender
empowerment measure 78 countries. For a significant number of countries data for the components of these indices are unreliable and out
of date and in some cases need to be estimated
(for the definition and methodology of the
indices, see technical note 1).
DISCREPANCIES

BETWEEN NATIONAL AND

INTERNATIONAL ESTIMATES

When compiling international data series, international data agencies often need to apply internationally adopted standards and harmonization
procedures to improve comparability across
countries. Where the international data are
based on national statistics, as they usually are,
the national data may need to be adjusted.
Where data for a country are missing, an international agency may produce an estimate if
other relevant information can be used. And
because of the difficulties in coordination
between national and international data agencies, international data series may not incorporate the most recent national data. All these
factors can lead to significant discrepancies
between national and international estimates.
This Report has often brought such
discrepancies to light. While the Human Development Report Office advocates for improvements in international data, it also recognizes that
it can play an active role in such efforts. When
discrepancies in data have arisen, it has helped

NOTE ON STATISTICS IN THE HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT

253

to link national and international data authorities to address those discrepancies. In many
cases this has led to better statistics in the Report.
The Human Development Report Office is striving to continuously improve data consistency
through more systematic efforts.
TOWARDS

STRONGER STATISTICAL CAPACITY

A vital part of the solution to the enormous
gaps and deficiencies in statistical information
is building sustainable statistical capacity in
countries, an effort requiring financial and
political commitment at both national and international levels. The momentum generated by the
Millennium Development Goal process has
mobilized the entire international statistical
community, and many initiatives are under way,
including the Marrakech Action Plan for Statistics (box 2) and the Health Metrics Network
launched by the WHO (box 3).
International statistical agencies should
continue to play an active part in statistical

development by improving, promoting and
implementing internationally agreed standards,
methods and frameworks for statistical activities. This year’s Report highlights the need for
conceptual and methodological breakthroughs
in the development of cultural indicators (box 4
and box 2.3 in chapter 2). It also calls for greater
efforts to improve other basic human development statistics. Recognizing the weakness of
the existing literacy statistics, the UNESCO
Institute for Statistics is developing new tools
for measuring literacy (box 5). And the Millennium Round of the International Comparison Program promises to provide a sounder
basis for assessing standards of living across
countries (box 6).
METHODOLOGY AND PRESENTATION OF THE
INDICATORS

This year’s Report presents data for most key
indicators with only a two-year lag between
the reference date for the indicators and the date

BOX 2

The Marrakech Action Plan for Statistics
The emphasis on quantitative targets in the Millennium Development Goals and the growing
attention to measuring results have increased the
demand for statistics. They have also increased our
awareness of the poor state of statistical systems
in many parts of the developing world. Good statistics are not a technical issue. As Trevor Manuel
has said, “If you can’t measure it, you can’t manage it”. Data and statistics are needed by governments, politicians, and managers. Crucially, they
are needed by citizens to hold governments
accountable for their actions and results. Improving statistical systems is a development issue, which
requires concerted action by the entire global
community and not just professional statisticians.
At the Second International Roundtable
Conference on Managing for Development
Results, representatives of the multilateral development banks, the OECD Development Assistance Committee, and UN programs and agencies
proposed an action plan for improving development statistics. The plan has three objectives:
1. To strengthen national capacity to produce,
analyze and use reliable statistics.
2. To improve the quality and availability of
development statistics for global monitoring.
3. To support countries that are expanding their
statistical capacity.

Six broad sets of actions
The Marrakech Action Plan for Statistics
(MAPS) builds on existing initiatives and country experience to set out six broad sets of actions
needed to improve statistics at both national
and international levels.
1. Mainstream strategic planning of statistical systems and help all low-income
countries prepare national statistical development strategies by 2006. Statistical
requirements must be derived from wider
development strategies, such as Poverty
Reduction Strategy Papers, not treated as a
separate issue.
2. Strengthen preparations for 2010 census.
Censuses are a core source of development
statistics and underpin the ability to monitor progress towards the Millennium Development Goals. We must begin now if
adequate information is to be in place to
assess progress in 2015.
3. Increase financial support for statistical
capacity building. In many cases countries
will need to increase their own financing for
statistics, but they will also require external
assistance. In the spirit of the Monterrey
Conference on Financing for Development,
countries that adopt good policies for their

statistical systems should receive needed
financial support for statistics.
4. Set up an international household survey
network. Surveys have become increasingly
important for measuring social outcomes,
but need better coordination.
5. Undertake urgent improvements needed for
Millennium Development Goal monitoring for 2005. The world expects a candid and
complete report on progress next year.
6. Increase accountability of the international
statistical system. The international agencies
must further improve their own practices.
Costs
The incremental cost of these activities is around
US$120 million a year for improving national statistical systems and around US$25 million a
year for improving international systems. These
are not exhaustive costs. For example, they
exclude the costs of the 2010 census. Nor do
they include the costs for improvements in other
statistical sources such as establishment surveys or administrative reporting. These are first
estimates, which will be refined as the proposals are developed and fine tuned. Also note that
these costs are for financing from all possible
sources, national as well as donors.

Source: World Bank 2004e.

254

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

of the Report’s release. The main human
development indicator tables include 175 UN
member countries along with Hong Kong,
China (SAR) and the Occupied Palestinian
Territories—all those for which the HDI can be
calculated. Owing to a lack of comparable data,
16 UN member countries cannot be included
in the HDI or, therefore, in the main indicator
tables. For these countries basic human development indicators are presented in a separate
table (table 33).
COUNTRY

CLASSIFICATIONS

Countries are classified in four ways: by human
development level, by income, in major world
aggregates and by region (see Classification of
countries). These designations do not necessarily express a judgement about the development
stage of a particular country or area. The term
country as used in the text and tables refers, as
appropriate, to territories or areas.
Human development classifications. All
countries included in the HDI are classified
into three clusters by achievement in human
development: high human development (with an
HDI of 0.800 or above), medium human development (0.500–0.799) and low human development (less than 0.500).
Income classifications. All countries are
grouped by income using World Bank classifications: high income (gross national income per
capita of US$9,076 or more in 2002), middle
income (US$736–$9,075) and low income
(US$735 or less).
Major world classifications. The three
global groups are developing countries, Central and Eastern Europe and the CIS and
OECD. These groups are not mutually exclusive. Unless otherwise specified, the classification world represents the universe of 193
countries and areas covered—191 UN member countries, plus Hong Kong, China (SAR)
and the Occupied Palestinian Territories.
Regional classifications. Developing countries are further classified into the following
regions: Arab States, East Asia and the Pacific,
Latin America and the Caribbean (including
Mexico), South Asia, Southern Europe and
Sub-Saharan Africa. These regional classifications are consistent with the Regional Bureaux

BOX 3

Health Metrics Network: An emerging global
partnership for health information
The Millennium Development Goals have
stimulated awareness of the importance of
data. They have also highlighted the weakness
of existing information systems in many countries. Nowhere is this more apparent than in
health. Sound information is essential for
achieving the health-related goals, yet rarely
available. Everywhere there are too many
uncoordinated demands for information, too
much useless data and too few solid facts.
The Health Metrics Network, an emerging global partnership funded largely by the
Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, seeks to
remedy this situation. It will convene the
health and statistical constituencies at global,
regional and country levels, including international agencies, bilateral and multilateral
donors, foundations and technical experts, to
advance the proposition that meeting the
health challenges of the 21st century requires
building stronger health information systems.
Its aim is to use the growing demand by
countries and development partners for good

information to accelerate the building of
national level health information systems that
serve global, national and subnational needs.
Countries themselves will lead this effort,
forging consensus among stakeholders around
plans for strengthening or reforming health
information systems. Implementing the plans
will help countries respond to the challenge
of monitoring progress towards national and
international goals and targets, including the
Millennium Development Goals.
The Health Metrics Network will be
made up of a board, a small secretariat
initially hosted by the World Health
Organziation, and technical task forces
that will provide the impetus for addressing key health metrics challenges. Board
members will include representatives of
developing countries, multilateral and bilateral agencies, foundations and technical
experts. The network’s launch is planned
for the first half of 2004, following the
first meeting of the board.

Source: WHO 2004f.

BOX 4

The Culture Statistics Programme
of the UNESCO Institute for Statistics
Before 2001, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
(UNESCO) Institute for Statistics (UIS)
Culture Statistics Programme collected data
based on survey vehicles in six areas: book
production, films and cinemas, libraries,
museums, print media and broadcasting. In
2002 the UIS began a reevaluation of its
Culture Statistics Programme and suspended
data collection pending the review. The UIS
is currently developing a new programme of
work that will better meet the policy needs
of member states.
The review began with a three-day
international symposium in Montreal in
October 2002, jointly sponsored by l’Observatoire de la culture et des communications
du Québec, to solicit opinions from
researchers around the world on what data
the UIS should collect on culture. Suggestions included work in culture participation,

culture employment and the finance of culture. Those suggestions, along the lines of
recent work by the Working Group on Culture Statistics of the European Union, are
being investigated for feasibility and relevance to other regions of the world.
Also under consideration is the updating of data on trade flows of cultural goods
for recent years in support of the Convention
on the Protection of Cultural Goods and
Artistic Expression, currently being drafted
by UNESCO. In addition, the UIS is participating in UNESCO’s cross-cutting project
“Initiative B@bel” by sponsoring a report
on the status of multilingualism on the Internet. Finally, the new programme of work for
culture statistics will likely involve the retooling of one or more of the suspended UIS
surveys, probably broadcasting or print
media, the two for which external demand for
data is greatest.

Source: UNESCO Institute for Statistics 2004d.

of UNDP. An additional classification is least
developed countries, as defined by the United
Nations (UNCTAD 2001).

NOTE ON STATISTICS IN THE HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT

255

BOX 5

Measuring literacy
Literacy is the foundation for social, economic and environmental progress in developing countries. Yet little attention has been
paid to measuring literacy, or the underlying factors contributing to the development
of reading, writing and numeracy skills in
developing countries or obtaining the necessary information to monitor change or to
formulate appropriate interventions.
Some developing countries, although a
minority, have attempted to follow international guidelines on determining the size of
their illiterate population using a census or
survey question asking whether an individual is literate. This methodology, referred to
as self-declaration, has major limitations.
First, it divides the population into two
groups—those who are literate and those
who are not—and how many are in each
group, a vast oversimplification. Second, it
underestimates the number of illiterate people because respondents are reluctant to
admit their illiteracy. These rates are widely
used to indicate the number of illiterate peo-

ple in countries and regions, but they provide
no insight into the literacy levels of these
populations, what aspects of reading and
writing development require improvement or
the relative impact of non-formal education
and literacy programmes. Needed instead
are measures of each individual’s skill level
in reading, writing and numeracy, and a
means of measuring progress. The United
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization (UNESCO) Institute for Statistics is developing a sample survey methodology to do this through the Literacy
Assessment and Monitoring Programme (see
http://www.uis.unesco.org/).
The time has come to replace simple literacy rates with literacy profiles of populations to show the wide range of skills and to
monitor changes to these profiles at all levels of literacy. The international community
can help by asking the right questions, by formulating associated international goals and
by supporting national efforts to obtain
more detailed information on literacy.

Source: UNESCO Institute for Statistics 2004e.

AGGREGATES

AND GROWTH RATES

Aggregates. Aggregates for the classifications
described above are presented at the end of
tables where it is analytically meaningful to do
so and data are sufficient. Aggregates that are
the total for the classification (such as for population) are indicated by a T. As a result of
rounding, world totals may not always equal
the sum of the totals for subgroups. All other
aggregates are weighted averages.
In general, an aggregate is shown for a classification only when data are available for half
the countries and represent at least two-thirds
of the available weight in that classification.
The Human Development Report Office does
not fill in missing data for the purpose of aggregation. Therefore, unless otherwise specified,
aggregates for each classification represent only
the countries for which data are available, refer
to the year or period specified and refer only to
data from the primary sources listed. Aggregates are not shown where appropriate weighting procedures were unavailable.
Aggregates for indices, for growth rates and
for indicators covering more than one point in
256

time are based only on countries for which data
exist for all necessary points in time. For the
world classification, which refers only to the
universe of 193 countries and areas (unless otherwise specified), aggregates are not always
shown where no aggregate is available for one
or more regions.
Aggregates in this Report will not always
conform to those in other publications because
of differences in country classifications and
methodology. Where indicated, aggregates are
calculated by the statistical agency providing
the data for the indicator.
Growth rates. Multiyear growth rates are
expressed as average annual rates of change. In
calculations of rates by the Human Development
Report Office only the beginning and end points
are used. Year-to-year growth rates are expressed
as annual percentage changes.
P RESENTATION
In the human development indicator tables
countries and areas are ranked in descending
order by their HDI value. To locate a country
in these tables, refer to the key to countries on
the back cover flap, which lists countries alphabetically with their HDI rank.
Sources for all data used in the indicator
tables are given in short citations at the end of each
table. These correspond to full references in the
statistical references. When an agency provides
data it has collected from another source, both
sources are credited in the table notes. But when
an agency has built on the work of many other
contributors, only the ultimate source is given.
The source notes also show the original data
components used in any calculations by the
Human Development Report Office to ensure
that all calculations can be easily replicated.
Indicators for which short, meaningful definitions can be given are included in the definitions of statistical terms. All other relevant
information appears in the notes at the end of
each table.
In the absence of the words annual, annual
rate or growth rate, a hyphen between two
years, such as in 1995-2000, indicates that the
data were collected during one of the years
shown. A slash between two years, such as in
1998/2001, indicates an average for the years
HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

BOX 6

The International Comparison Program
The International Comparison Program is a
global statistical initiative begun in the early
1970s. It aims to facilitate cross-country comparisons of economic aggregates by producing
internationally comparable price levels, expenditure values and purchasing power parity (PPP)
estimates. Through purchasing power parity
exchange rates, which are the number of units
of a country’s money required to buy the same
quantity of goods and services as $1 buys in the
United States, countries can be compared in
real terms, free of price and exchange rate distortions. This is particularly important when
studying differences in income, poverty, inequality and expenditure patterns among countries.
Over the past 30 years, the International
Comparison Program has grown from a pilot
study to a global project. The programme has
become an integral part of national statistical
work in Organisation for Economic Co-operation
and Development (OECD) countries, and much
progress has been made in many developing
countries. By the time of the last round of

international comparisons during 1993 and 1996,
118 countries from all regions of the world were
participating in the programme. Yet, the current
set of PPP data is still lacking in universal coverage, timeliness and uniformity of quality across
regions and countries. Gaps in country coverage
of benchmark surveys have been filled with
econometric estimates, which are then extrapolated over time. These results are becoming
increasingly weak as the distance grows between
the reference survey year and the current year.
The importance of purchasing power parities in economic analysis underlines the need for
improvement in PPP data. A new International
Comparison Program strategic framework has
been developed through a global consultative
process for improving the methodology and
implementation of the exercise and the quality
of its outputs. The framework sets out remedial
actions for international and regional agencies as
well as national partners. The immediate objective is to organize the collection of economic statistics for the new Millennium Round (2003–06),

to meet the urgent demand for reliable and
timely data to support tracking progress on the
Millennium Development Goals. The ultimate
objectives are to strengthen national statistical
capacity in price and national accounts and make
the programme an integral part of national statistical systems, to bring purchasing power parities for the poor into the mainstream of the
programme and to promote the use of International Comparison Program data for economic
analysis at national, regional and international levels. More than 160 countries (including OECD
members) intend to take part in the new round.
Promising research is under way to integrate
poverty-specific PPPs within the mainstream of
the International Comparison Program work.
The results of two pilot studies conducted in Asia
and Africa show that poverty-specific PPPs can
be generated using data from household expenditure surveys and International Comparison Program sources. The findings of these studies
provide a promising approach that can be used
for poverty analysis within and across countries.

Source: World Bank 2004d.

shown unless otherwise specified. The following symbols are used:
.. Data not available.
(.) Less than half the unit shown.
< Less than.
– Not applicable.
T Total.
Unless otherwise indicated, data for China
do not include Hong Kong, China (SAR), Macau,
China (SAR) or Taiwan (province of China). In
most cases data for Eritrea before 1992 are
included in the data for Ethiopia. Data for
Indonesia include Timor-Leste through 1999.
Data for Jordan refer to the East Bank only.
Data for Sudan are often based on information
collected from the Northern part of the country.
Economic data for Tanzania cover the mainland only. And data for the Republic of Yemen
refer to that country from 1990 onward, while
data for earlier years refer to aggregated data for
the former People’s Democratic Republic of
Yemen and the former Yemen Arab Republic.

As a result of periodic revisions of data by
international agencies, statistics presented in
different editions of the Report may not be
comparable. For this reason the Human Development Report Office strongly advises against
constructing trend analyses based on data from
different editions.
HDI values and ranks similarly are not
comparable across editions of the Report. For
trend analysis based on consistent data and
methodology, refer to indicator table 2
(Human development index trends). The
HDI values and ranks recalculated for 2001
(the reference year for the HDI in Human
Development Report 2003) based on data and
country coverage comparable to this year’s
Report are available on the HDRO website
[http://hdr.undp.org/].
The data presented in the human development indicator tables are those available to the
Human Development Report Office as of 1 April
2004, unless otherwise specified.

NOTE ON STATISTICS IN THE HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT

257

TECHNICAL NOTE 1
CALCULATING THE HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDICES

The diagrams here offer a clear overview of how the five human development indices
used in the Human Development Report are constructed, highlighting both their similarities
and their differences. The text on the following pages provides a detailed explanation.
HDI

DIMENSION
INDICATOR

A long and
healthy life
Life expectancy
at birth

Gross enrolment ratio
(GER)

Adult literacy rate
Adult literacy index

DIMENSION
INDEX

A decent standard
of living

Knowledge

Life expectancy index

GDP per capita
(PPP US$)

GER index
GDP index

Education index

Human development index (HDI)
HPI-1

DIMENSION

A long and
healthy life

INDICATOR

Probability at birth
of not surviving
to age 40

Knowledge

A decent standard of living

Adult illiteracy rate

Percentage of population
Percentage of children
without sustainable access to under weight for age
an improved water source
Deprivation in
a decent standard of living

Human poverty index
for developing countries (HPI-1)
HPI-2

DIMENSION
INDICATOR

A long and
healthy life

Knowledge

A decent standard
of living

Social
exclusion

Probability at birth
of not surviving
to age 60

Percentage of adults
lacking functional
literacy skills

Percentage of people
living below the
poverty line

Long-term
unemployment rate

Human poverty index
for selected OECD countries (HPI-2)
GDI

DIMENSION
INDICATOR

DIMENSION
INDEX

EQUALLY
DISTRIBUTED
INDEX

A long and
healthy life
Female life Male life
expectancy expectancy
at birth
at birth

Female
life expectancy
index

A decent standard
of living

Knowledge
Female
Male
adult literacy Female adult literacy
rate
GER
rate

Male
life expectancy
index

Equally distributed
life expectancy
index

Female
education
index

Female
Male
estimated estimated
earned
earned
income
income

Male
GER

Male
education
index

Female
income
index

Equally distributed
education index

Male
income
index

Equally distributed
income index

Gender-related development index (GDI)
GEM

DIMENSION

Political participation
and decision-making

INDICATOR

EQUALLY
DISTRIBUTED
EQUIVALENT
PERCENTAGE
(EDEP)

Economic participation
and decision-making

Power over
economic resources

Female and male shares
of parliamentary seats

Female and male shares Female and male shares
of positions as legislators, of professional and
senior officials and managers technical positions

Female and male
estimated earned
income

EDEP for
parliamentary
representation

EDEP for
economic participation

EDEP for
income

Gender empowerment measure (GEM)

258

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

The human development index (HDI)
The HDI is a summary measure of human
development. It measures the average achievements in a country in three basic dimensions of
human development:
• A long and healthy life, as measured by life
expectancy at birth.
• Knowledge, as measured by the adult literacy
rate (with two-thirds weight) and the combined
primary, secondary and tertiary gross
enrolment ratio (with one-third weight).
• A decent standard of living, as measured by
GDP per capita (PPP US$).
Before the HDI itself is calculated, an index
needs to be created for each of these dimensions. To calculate these dimension indices
—the life expectancy, education and GDP
indices—minimum and maximum values
(goalposts) are chosen for each underlying
indicator.

Goalpost for
maximum
value

1.00

Calculating the HDI
90

This illustration of the calculation of the HDI uses data for
Costa Rica.

Index
value

Indicator
value

1. Calculating the life expectancy index
The life expectancy index measures the relative achievement
of a country in life expectancy at birth. For Costa Rica, with
a life expectancy of 78.0 years in 2002, the life expectancy
index is 0.884.
Life expectancy index =

78.0 – 25
85 – 25

.800

.700

Gross enrolment index =

.500

95.8 – 0
100 – 0
69 – 0
100 – 0

60

.600

50

.400

40

Goalpost
25 yrs.

= 0.884

.200

30
0
20

Life
expectancy
Life
index
expectancy
(years)

2. Calculating the education index
The education index measures a country’s relative
achievement in both adult literacy and combined
primary, secondary and tertiary gross enrolment.
First, an index for adult literacy and one for
combined gross enrolment are calculated. Then these
two indices are combined to create the education
index, with two-thirds weight given to adult literacy
and one-third weight to combined gross enrolment.
For Costa Rica, with an adult literacy rate of 95.8% in
2002 and a combined gross enrolment ratio of 69% in
the school year 2001/02, the education index is 0.870.
Adult literacy index =

.600

1.00

0.884

70

.900
.800

Goalpost
85 yrs.
80
78.0

1.00

100

95.8

90

0.870
.800

80
70

69
.600

60
50

.400

40
30

.200

20
10

= 0.958

0

0

= 0.690

Adult
literacy
rate

Gross
enrolment
ratio

(%)

(%)

Education
index

.400

Education index = 2/3 (adult literacy index) + 1/3 (gross enrolment index)
= 2/3 (0.958) + 1/3 (0.690) = 0.870

.300
.200
.100

Goalpost for
minimum
value

100,000

0

Indicator

Dimension
index

Performance in each dimension is expressed as
a value between 0 and 1 by applying the
following general formula:
Dimension index =

actual value – minimum value
maximum value – minimum value

The HDI is then calculated as a simple average
of the dimension indices. The box at right
illustrates the calculation of the HDI for a
sample country.

3. Calculating the GDP index
The GDP index is calculated using adjusted GDP per capita
(PPP US$). In the HDI income serves as a surrogate for all
the dimensions of human development not reflected in a
long and healthy life and in knowledge. Income is adjusted
because achieving a respectable level of human development
does not require unlimited income. Accordingly, the
logarithm of income is used. For Costa Rica, with a GDP
per capita of $8,840 (PPP US$) in 2002, the GDP index is
0.748.
GDP index =

log (8,840) – log (100)
log (40,000) – log (100)

Goalposts for calculating the HDI
Maximum Minimum
Indicator
value
value
Life expectancy at birth (years)
85
Adult literacy rate (%)
100
Combined gross enrolment ratio (%) 100
GDP per capita (PPP US$)
40,000

HDI = 1/3 (life expectancy index) + 1/3 (education index)
+ 1/3 (GDP index)
= 1/3 (0.884) + 1/3 (0.870) + 1/3 (0.748) = 0.834

10,000

.800

0.748

.600
.400

1,000

.200

Goalpost
$100

0

GDP
per capita

GDP
index

(PPP US$)
Log scale

Dimension indices

HDI
1.00

0.884

0.870

0.834
0.748

.800
.600
.400
.200

Life
expectancy

TECHNICAL NOTES

1.00

8,840

= 0.748

4. Calculating the HDI
Once the dimension indices have been
calculated, determining the HDI is
straightforward. It is a simple average of the
three dimension indices.

25
0
0
100

Goalpost
$40,000

Education

GDP

0

259

The human poverty index
for developing countries (HPI-1)
While the HDI measures average achievement,
the HPI-1 measures deprivations in the three
basic dimension s of human developmen t
captured in the HDI:
• A long and healthy life—vulnerability to death
at a relativel y early age, as measured by the
probability at birth of not surviving to age 40.
• Knowledge—exclusio n from the world of
reading and communications, as measured by
the adult illiteracy rate.
• A decent standard of living—lack of access to
overall economic provisioning, as measured by
the unweighted average of two indicators, the
percentag e of the populatio n without
sustainable access to an improved water source
and the percentage of children under weight
for age.
Calculating the HPI-1 is more straightforward
than calculating the HDI. The indicators used to
measure the deprivations are already normalized
between 0 and 100 (because they are expressed
as percentages), so there is no need to create
dimension indices as for the HDI.
Originally , the measure of deprivatio n in a
decent standard of living also included an
indicato r of access to health services . But
because reliable data on access to health
services are lacking for recent years, in this
year’s Report deprivation in a decent standard
of living is measured by two rather than three
indicators—the percentage of the population
without sustainabl e access to an improved
water source and the percentage of children
under weight for age.
The human poverty index for selected
OECD countries (HPI-2)
The HPI-2 measures deprivations in the same
dimension s as the HPI-1 and also captures
social exclusion. Thus it reflects deprivations in
four dimensions:
• A long and healthy life—vulnerabilit y to
death at a relatively early age, as measured by
the probabilit y at birth of not surviving to
age 60.
• Knowledge—exclusio n from the world of
reading and communications, as measured by
the percentage of adults (aged 16–65) lacking
functional literacy skills.
• A decent standard of living—as measured by
the percentag e of people living below the
income poverty line (50% of the median
adjusted household disposable income).
• Social exclusion—as measured by the rate of
long-term unemployment (12 months or more).

260

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

The gender-related development
index (GDI)

Calculating the GDI

While the HDI measures average achievement,
the GDI adjusts the average achievement to
reflect the inequalities between men and
women in the following dimensions:
• A long and healthy life, as measured by life
expectancy at birth.
• Knowledge, as measured by the adult literacy
rate and the combined primary, secondary and
tertiary gross enrolment ratio.
• A decent standard of living, as measured by
estimated earned income (PPP US$).
The calculation of the GDI involves three steps.
First, female and male indices in each
dimension are calculated according to this
general formula:
Dimension index =

actual value – minimum value
maximum value – minimum value

Second, the female and male indices in each
dimension are combined in a way that penalizes
differences in achievement between men and
women. The resulting index, referred to as the
equally distributed index, is calculated
according to this general formula:
Equally distributed index
= {[female population share (female index1–∈)]
+ [male population share (male index1–∈)]}1/1–∈

This illustration of the calculation of the GDI uses data for Turkey.
1. Calculating the equally distributed life expectancy index
The first step is to calculate separate indices for female and male achievements in life
expectancy, using the general formula for dimension indices.
FEMALE
Life expectancy: 73.1 years
73.1 – 27.5
Life expectancy index =
= 0.760
87.5 – 27.5

MALE
Life expectancy: 67.9 years
67.9 – 22.5
Life expectancy index =
= 0.757
82.5 – 22.5

Next, the female and male indices are combined to create the equally distributed life
expectancy index, using the general formula for equally distributed indices.
FEMALE
Population share: 0.496
Life expectancy index: 0.760

MALE
Population share: 0.504
Life expectancy index: 0.757

Equally distributed life expectancy index = {[0.496 (0.760–1)] + [0.504 (0.757–1)]}–1 = 0.758

2. Calculating the equally distributed education index
First, indices for the adult literacy rate and the combined primary, secondary and tertiary gross
enrolment ratio are calculated separately for females and males. Calculating these indices is
straightforward, since the indicators used are already normalized between 0 and 100.
FEMALE
Adult literacy rate: 78.5%
Adult literacy index: 0.785
Gross enrolment ratio: 61.8%
Gross enrolment index: 0.618

MALE
Adult literacy rate: 94.4%
Adult literacy index: 0.944
Gross enrolment ratio: 73.5%
Gross enrolment index: 0.735

Second, the education index, which gives two-thirds weight to the adult literacy index and
one-third weight to the gross enrolment index, is computed separately for females and males.

∈ measures the aversion to inequality. In the
GDI ∈= 2. Thus the general equation becomes:

Education index = 2/3 (adult literacy index) + 1/3 (gross enrolment index)

Equally distributed index
= {[female population share (female index–1)]
+ [male population share (male index–1)]}–1

Male education index = 2/3 (0.944) + 1/3 (0.735) = 0.874

which gives the harmonic mean of the female
and male indices.
Third, the GDI is calculated by combining the
three equally distributed indices in an
unweighted average.

Goalposts for calculating the GDI
Maximum
Minimum
Indicator
value
value

Female education index = 2/3 (0.785) + 1/3 (0.618) = 0.729

Finally, the female and male education indices are combined to create the equally distributed
education index.
FEMALE
Population share: 0.496
Education index: 0.729

MALE
Population share: 0.504
Education index: 0.874

Equally distributed education index = {[0.496 (0.729–1)] + [0.504 (0.874–1)]}–1 = 0.796

3. Calculating the equally distributed income index
First, female and male earned income (PPP US$) are estimated (for details on this
calculation, see the addendum to this technical note). Then the income index is calculated for
each gender. As for the HDI, income is adjusted by taking the logarithm of estimated earned
income (PPP US$):

Female life expectancy
at birth (years)

87.5

27.5

Male life expectancy
at birth (years)

82.5

22.5

Adult literacy rate (%)

100

0

FEMALE
Estimated earned income (PPP US$): 4,757

Combined gross enrolment
ratio (%)

100

0

Income index =

40,000

100

Estimated earned income
(PPP US$)

Income index =

log (actual value) – log (minimum value)
log (maximum value) – log (minimum value)

log (4,757) – log (100)
= 0.645
log (40,000) – log (100)

MALE
Estimated earned income (PPP US$): 7,873
Income index =

log (7,873) – log (100)
= 0.729
log (40,000) – log (100)

Note: The maximum and minimum values (goalposts) for life
expectancy are five years higher for women to take into account
their longer life expectancy.
Calculating the GDI continues on next page

TECHNICAL NOTES

261

Calculating the GDI (continued)

Second, the female and male income indices are combined to create the equally distributed
income index:
FEMALE
Population share: 0.496
Income index: 0.645

MALE
Population share: 0.504
Income index: 0.729

Equally distributed income index = {[0.496 (0.645–1)] + [0.504 (0.729–1)]}–1 = 0.685

4. Calculating the GDI
Calculating the GDI is straightforward. It is simply the unweighted average of the three
component indices—the equally distributed life expectancy index, the equally distributed
education index and the equally distributed income index.
GDI = 1/3 (life expectancy index) + 1/3 (education index) + 1/3 (income index)
= 1/3 (0.758) + 1/3 (0.796) + 1/3 (0.685) = 0.746

Why

= 2 in calculating the GDI

The value of ∈ is the size of the penalty for gender inequality. The larger the value, the more
heavily a society is penalized for having inequalities.
If ∈ = 0, gender inequality is not penalized (in this case the GDI would have the same value as
the HDI). As ∈ increases towards infinity, more and more weight is given to the lesser
achieving group.
The value 2 is used in calculating the GDI (as well as the GEM). This value places a moderate
penalty on gender inequality in achievement.
For a detailed analysis of the GDI’s mathematical formulation, see Sudhir Anand and Amartya
Sen’s “Gender Inequality in Human Development: Theories and Measurement,” Kalpana
Bardhan and Stephan Klasen’s “UNDP’s Gender-Related Indices: A Critical Review” and the
technical notes in Human Development Report 1995 and Human Development Report
1999 (see the list of selected readings at the end of this technical note).

262

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

The gender empowerment measure
(GEM)
Focusing on women’s opportunities rather than
their capabilities, the GEM captures gender
inequality in three key areas:
• Political participation and decision-making
power, as measured by women’s and men’s
percentage shares of parliamentary seats.
• Economic participation and decision-making
power, as measured by two indicators—
women’s and men’s percentage shares of
positions as legislators, senior officials and
managers and women’s and men’s percentage
shares of professional and technical positions.
• Power over economic resources, as measured
by women’s and men’s estimated earned income
(PPP US$).
For each of these three dimensions, an equally
distributed equivalent percentage (EDEP) is
calculated, as a population-weighted average,
according to the following general formula:
EDEP = {[female population share (female index1–∈)]
+ [malepopulation share (male index1–∈)]}1/1–∈

∈measures the aversion to inequality. In the
GEM (as in the GDI) ∈ = 2, which places a
moderate penalty on inequality. The formula is
thus:
EDEP = {[female population share (female index–1)]
+[male population share (male index–1)]}–1

For political and economic participation and
decision-making, the EDEP is then indexed by
dividing it by 50. The rationale for this
indexation: in an ideal society, with equal
empowerment of the sexes, the GEM variables
would equal 50%—that is, women’s share
would equal men’s share for each variable.
Where a male or female index value is zero, the
EDEP according to the above formula is not
defined. However, the limit of EDEP, when the
index tends towards zero, is zero. Accordingly,
in these cases the value of the EDEP is set to
zero.
Finally, the GEM is calculated as a simple
average of the three indexed EDEPs.

Calculating the GEM

This illustration of the calculation of the GEM uses data for Greece.
1. Calculating the EDEP for parliamentary representation
The EDEP for parliamentary representation measures the relative empowerment of women in
terms of their political participation. The EDEP is calculated using the female and male shares
of the population and female and male percentage shares of parliamentary seats according to
the general formula.
FEMALE
Population share: 0.507
Parliamentary share: 8.7%

MALE
Population share: 0.492
Parliamentary share: 91.3%

EDEP for parliamentary representation = {[0.507 (8.7–1)] + [0.492 (91.3–1)]}–1 = 15.70

Then this initial EDEP is indexed to an ideal value of 50%.
Indexed EDEP for parliamentary representation =

15.70
= 0.314
50

2. Calculating the EDEP for economic participation
Using the general formula, an EDEP is calculated for women’s and men’s percentage shares of
positions as legislators, senior officials and managers, and another for women’s and men’s
percentage shares of professional and technical positions. The simple average of the two
measures gives the EDEP for economic participation.
FEMALE
Population share: 0.507
Percentage share of positions as legislators,
 senior officials and managers: 25.6%
Percentage share of professional and
 technical positions: 47.9%

MALE
Population share: 0.492
Percentage share of positions as legislators,
 senior officials and managers: 74.4%
Percentage share of professional and
 technical positions: 52.1%

EDEP for positions as legislators, senior officials and managers = {[0.507 (25.6–1)] + [0.492 (74.4–1)]}–1 = 37.82
Indexed EDEP for positions as legislators, senior officials and managers =

37.82
= 0.756
50

EDEP for professional and technical positions = {[0.507 (47.9–1)] + [0.492 (52.1–1)]}–1 = 49.88
49.88
Indexed EDEP for professional and technical positions =
= 0.998
50

The two indexed EDEPs are averaged to create the EDEP for economic participation:
EDEP for economic participation =

0.756 + 0.998
= 0.877
2

3. Calculating the EDEP for income
Earned income (PPP US$) is estimated for women and men separately and then indexed to
goalposts as for the HDI and the GDI. For the GEM, however, the income index is based on
unadjuste d values, not the logarithm of estimated earned income. (For details on the
estimation of earned income for men and women, see the addendum to this technical note.)
FEMALE
Population share: 0.507
Estimated earned income (PPP US$): 10,892
10,892 – 100
Income index =
= 0.270
40,000 – 100

MALE
Population share: 0.492
Estimated earned income (PPP US$): 25,601
25,601 – 100
Income index =
= 0.639
40,000 – 100

The female and male indices are then combined to create the equally distributed index:
EDEP for income = {[0.507 (0.270–1)] + [0.492 (0.639–1)]}–1 = 0.377

4. Calculating the GEM
Once the EDEP has been calculated for the three dimensions of the GEM, determining the
GEM is straightforward. It is a simple average of the three EDEP indices.
GEM =

TECHNICAL NOTES

0.314 + 0.877 + 0.377
= 0.523
3

263

TECHNICAL NOTE 1 ADDENDUM

Female and male earned income
Despite the importance of having
gender-disaggregated data on income, direct
measures are unavailable. For this Report crude
estimates of female and male earned income
have therefore been derived.
Income can be seen in two ways: as a resource
for consumption and as earnings by individuals.
The use measure is difﬁcult to disaggregate
between men and women because they share
resources within a family unit. By contrast,
earnings are separable because different
members of a family tend to have separate
earned incomes.
The income measure used in the GDI and the
GEM indicates a person’s capacity to earn
income. It is used in the GDI to capture the
disparities between men and women in
command over resources and in the GEM to
capture women’s economic independence. (For
conceptual and methodological issues relating
to this approach, see Sudhir Anand and
Amartya Sen’s “Gender Inequality in Human
Development” and, in Human Development
Report 1995, chapter 3 and technical notes 1
and 2; see the list of selected readings at the end
of this technical note.)
Female and male earned income (PPP US$) are
estimated using the following data:
• Ratio of the female non-agricultural wage to
the male non-agricultural wage.
• Male and female shares of the economically
active population.
• Total female and male population.
• GDP per capita (PPP US$).
Key
Wf / Wm = ratio of female non-agricultural wage to
male non-agricultural wage
EAf = female share of economically active population
EAm = male share of economically active population
Sf = female share of wage bill
Y = total GDP (PPP US$)
Nf = total female population
Nm = total male population
Yf = estimated female earned income (PPP US$)
Ym = estimated male earned income (PPP US$)

Note
Calculations based on data in the technical
note may yield results that differ from those in
the indicator tables because of rounding.

264

Estimating female and male earned income

This illustration of the estimation of female and male earned income uses 2002 data for
Philippines.
1. Calculating total GDP (PPP US$)
Total GDP (PPP US$) is calculated by multiplying the total population by GDP per capita
(PPP US$).
Total population: 79,944 (thousand)
GDP per capita (PPP US$): 4,170
Total GDP (PPP US$) = 4,170 (79,944) = 333,366,480 (thousand)

2. Calculating the female share of the wage bill
Because data on wages in rural areas and in the informal sector are rare, the Report has used
non-agricultural wages and assumed that the ratio of female wages to male wages in the
non-agricultural sector applies to the rest of the economy. The female share of the wage bill is
calculated using the ratio of the female non-agricultural wage to the male non-agricultural
wage and the female and male percentage shares of the economically active population. Where
data on the wage ratio are not available, a value of 75% is used.
Ratio of female to male non-agricultural wage (Wf /Wm ) = 0.94
Female percentage share of economically active population (EAf ) = 38.2%
Male percentage share of economically active population (EAm ) = 61.8%
Wf /Wm (EAf )
0.94 (38.2)
Female share of wage bill (Sf ) =
=
[Wf /Wm (EAf )] + EAm
[0.94 (61.8)] + 61.8

= 0.368

3. Calculating female and male earned income (PPP US$)
An assumption has to be made that the female share of the wage bill is equal to the female
share of GDP.
Female share of wage bill (Sf ) = 0.368
Total GDP (PPP US$) (Y ) = 333,366,480 (thousand)
Female population (Nf ) = 39,014 (thousand)
Sf (Y )
0.368 (333,366,480)
=
= 3,144
Nf
39,014

Estimated female earned income (PPP US$) (Yf ) =
Male population (Nm ) = 39,566 (thousand)
Estimated male earned income (PPP US$) (Ym ) =

Y – Sf (Y )

Selected readings
Anand, Sudhir, and Amartya Sen. 1994.
“Human
Development
Index:
Methodology
and
Measurement.”
Occasional Paper 12. United Nations
Development
Programme,
Human
Development Report Ofﬁce, New York.
(HDI)
———. 1995. “Gender Inequality in Human
Development: Theories and Measurement.”
Occasional Paper 19. United Nations
Development
Programme,
Human
Development Report Ofﬁce, New York.
(GDI, GEM)
———. 1997. “Concepts of Human
Development
and
Poverty:
A
Multi-dimensional Perspective.” In United
Nations Development Programme, Human

=

333,366,480 – [0.368 (333,366,480)]
= 5,326
39,586
Nm

Development Report 1997 Papers:
Poverty and Human Development. New
York. (HPI-1, HPI-2)
Bardhan, Kalpana, and Stephan Klasen. 1999.
“UNDP’s Gender-Related Indices: A
Critical Review.” World Development 27
(6): 985–1010. (GDI, GEM)
United Nations Development Programme.
1995. Human Development Report 1995.
New York: Oxford University Press.
Technical notes 1 and 2 and chapter 3.
(GDI, GEM)
———. 1997. Human Development Report
1997. New York: Oxford University Press.
Technical note 1 and chapter 1. (HPI-1,
HPI-2)
———. 1999. Human Development Report
1999. New York: Oxford University Press.
Technical note. (HDI, GDI)

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

TECHNICAL NOTE 2
IDENTIFYING TOP PRIORITY AND HIGH
PRIORITY COUNTRIES FOR THE
MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS

This year’s Human Developmen t Report
identifies countries that are top priority and high
priority for each Millennium Development Goal
for which there are sufficien t data, based on
human poverty in each goal and trends in the
1990s. Based on the goal-by-goa l analysis, the
Report then identifie s countrie s that are top
priority and high priority overall.
Assessing countries as top priority and
high priority for each Goal

For each Millenniu m Developmen t Goal the
assessmen t of a country is based both on its
progress towards the goal—slow or reversing ,
moderate, fast—and on its level of human poverty
in the goal—extreme , medium, low (technica l
note tables 2.1 and 2.2). Progress is measured
against the targets and using the indicator s
defined for the Millennium Development Goals.
Top priority countries for each goal
A country is designated top priority for a goal if it
has both extreme human poverty in that goal and
slow or reversing progress towards it (technical
note figure 2.1).
High priority countries for each goal
A country is designated high priority for a goal if:
• It has extreme human poverty in that goal and
moderate progress towards it.

• Or it has medium human poverty in that goal
and slow or reversing progress towards it.
Assessing countries as top priority and
high priority across all the Goals

The assessmen t of whether a country is top
priority or high priority for all the goals is based
on the number of goals for which the country is
top priority or high priority. (This overall assessment includes data for the HIV/AIDS target,
though it is not assessed separately).
Top priority countries across all the goals
A country is designated top priority across all the
goals if:
• It is top priority for at least three goals.
• Or it is top priority for half or more of the
goals for which at least three data points are
available for that country.
• Or, where data are availabl e for only two
goals, it is top priority for both.

Technical note table 2.1
Defining progress towards the Millennium
Development Goals
Rate of progress

Definition

Slow or reversing

Actual progress towards the goal
is less than half the approximate
progress required to meet the
target if current trends prevail
until 2015.

Moderate

Actual progress towards the goal
is more than half but less than
the approximate progress
required to meet the target if
current trends prevail until 2015.

Fast

Actual progress towards the goal
is equal to or greater than the
approximate progress required
to meet the target if current
trends prevail until 2015.

Note: The year in which the target is to be met is 2015 for all
except gender equality in education, for which it is 2005.

High priority countries across all the goals
A country is designated high priority across all
the goals if it does not fall into the top priority
category but:
• It is top or high priority for at least three goals.
• Or it is top priority for two goals.
• Or it is top or high priority for half or more of
the goals for which at least three data points are
available for that country.
• Or, where data are available for only two goals,
it is top or high priority for both.

Technical note table 2.2
Defining the level of human poverty in the Millennium Development Goals
Level of human poverty (x = value of indicator)
Target

Indicator

Extreme

Medium

Low

Source

Halve the proportion of people
whose income is less than $1 a day

GDP per capita
(PPP US$)a

x < 3,500

3,500 ≤ x < 7,000

x ≥ 7,000

Halve the proportion of people who
suffer from hunger

Undernourished
people (%)

x > 25

10 < x ≤ 25

x ≤ 10

Food and Agriculture
Organization

Ensure that children everywhere
will be able to complete a full course
of primary schooling

Net primary enrolment
ratio (%)

x < 75

75 ≤ x < 90

x ≥ 90

United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural
Organization (UNESCO)

Achieve gender equality in
education

Ratio of girls to boys
in primary and secondary
education (%)

x < 80

80 ≤ x < 90

x ≥ 90

UNESCO

Reduce under-five mortality by
two-thirds

Under-five mortality rate
(per 1,000 live births)

x > 100

30 < x ≤ 100

x ≤ 30

United Nations Children’s
Fund (UNICEF)

Halve the proportion of people
without sustainable access to safe
drinking water

Population with sustainable
access to an improved
water source (%)

x < 75

75 ≤ x < 90

x ≥ 90

UNICEF and World Health
Organization (WHO)

Halve the proportion of people
without access to improved sanitation

Population with sustainable
access to improved
sanitation (%)

x < 75

75 ≤ x < 90

x ≥ 90

UNICEF and WHO

World Bank

a. The average annual GDP per capita growth rate is used as a trend measure.

TECHNICAL NOTES

265

Level of human poverty in goal

Technical note figure 2.1
Identifying top priority and high priority countries

Low

Medium

High priority

Extreme

Top priority

High priority

Slow or
reversing

Moderate

Fast

Progress towards goal

Calculating progress towards each goal

Progress towards each goal is assessed by comparing actual annual progress if current trends were to
prevail until 2015 with the annual progress needed to meet the target, under the assumption of linear
progress.
Assessing actual progress
The actual annual rate of progress is calculated using the general formula:

Actual annual rate of progress =

( xt 1 – xt 0 ) / xt 0
t1 – t0

where t0 is 1990 or the year closest to 1990 for which data are available; t1 is the most recent year for
which data are available, generally 2001; and xt0 and xt1 are the values of the indicator for those years. For
rates of hunger, poverty and under-five mortality, for which the most desirable value is 0, the formula is
applied without modification.
For the net primary enrolment ratio, gender equality in education (ratio of girls to boys) and the
proportion of the population with access to safe water and sanitation, for which the most desirable value
is 100%, progress is expressed as “shortfall reduction” according to the following formula:

Actual annual rate of progress =

( xt 1 – xt 0 ) / ( 100 – xt 0 )
t1 – t0

Assessing required progress
The rate of progress required to meet a target by 2015 (by 2005 for gender equality in education) is
dictated by the target: α is –1/2 for poverty and hunger, 1/2 for safe water and sanitation, –2/3 for
under-five mortality and 1 for primary enrolment and gender equality in education. The annual rate of
progress required is then calculated by simply dividing α by the number of years between tMDG, the year
by which the target is to be met, and t0, the year closest to 1990 for which data are available:
Required annual rate of progress =

α
tMDG – t0

266

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

Determining priority status: an example

This illustration of determining priority status uses data on the under-five mortality rate for Chad.
Calculating progress
Data for the under-five mortality rate are available for 1990 and 2002:
t0 = 1990
t1 = 2002
The under-five mortality rate is 203 per 1,000 live births for 1990 and 200 for 2002:
xt0 = 203
xt1 = 200
The required reduction is two-thirds:
α = –2/3
Therefore:

Actual annual rate of progress

=

(200 – 203) ÷ 203

= –0.12 percentage points

2002 – 1990

Required annual rate of progress =

–2/3

= –2.67 percentage points

2015 – 1990

The actual progress towards the goal is less than half the approximate progress required to meet the
target.
Therefore, Chad is making slow or reversing progress towards the goal of reducing under-five
mortality.
Determining the level of human poverty
The under-five mortality rate for Chad in 2002 is 200 per 1,000 live births.
Therefore, Chad has an extreme level of human poverty in under-five mortality (see technical
note table 2.2).
Determining the priority status for under-five mortality
Chad has an extreme level of human poverty in under-five mortality and slow or reversing progress.
Therefore, Chad is categorized as top priority for the goal of reducing under-five mortality.
Determining the priority status across all goals
Of the eight indicators for which Chad has data, it is identified as top priority for two and high priority
for another six.
Therefore, Chad is categorized as a high priority country overall.
Note

To measure progress in income poverty, the GDP per capita growth rate in 1990–2002 is used. It is
estimated that average annual growth of 1.4% is required in 1990–2015 to meet the income poverty
target. Accordingly, the threshold for slow or reversing progress is annual per capita income growth of
less than 0.7%; for moderate progress, 0.7% to 1.4%; and for fast progress, 1.4% or more.
Trend data for the prevalence of HIV/AIDS among adults (age 15 and above) in 1990 and 2000 are also
used in the overall assessment of countries as top priority and high priority (UNAIDS and WHO 2003).
For determining the level of human poverty in HIV/AIDS, a prevalence rate of more than 3% is
considered extreme; 3% or less but greater than 1%, medium; and 1% or less, low. Since the target is to
halt and begin to reverse the spread of HIV/AIDS, an increase in the prevalence rate of less than 1
percentage point is considered fast progress; an increase of 1 percentage point or more but less than 3,
moderate progress; and an increase of 3 percentage points or more, slow or reversing progress.

TECHNICAL NOTES

267

Definitions of statistical terms

Armed forces, total Strategic, land, naval, air, command, administrative and support forces. Also
included are paramilitary forces such as the gendarmerie, customs service and border guard, if these
are trained in military tactics.
Arms transfers, conventional Refers to the voluntary transfer by the supplier (and thus excludes captured weapons and weapons obtained through
defectors) of weapons with a military purpose destined for the armed forces, paramilitary forces or
intelligence agencies of another country. These
include major conventional weapons or systems in six
categories: ships, aircraft, missiles, artillery, armoured
vehicles and guidance and radar systems (excluded
are trucks, services, ammunition, small arms, support
items, components and component technology and
towed or naval artillery under 100-millimetre calibre).
Births attended by skilled health personnel The
percentage of deliveries attended by personnel
(including doctors, nurses and midwives) trained to
give the necessary care, supervision and advice to
women during pregnancy, labour and the postpartum period, to conduct deliveries on their own and
to care for newborns.
Birthweight, infants with low The percentage of
infants with a birthweight of less than 2,500 grams.
Carbon dioxide emissions Anthropogenic (humanoriginated) carbon dioxide emissions stemming from
the burning of fossil fuels, gas flaring and the production of cement. Emissions are calculated from data
on the consumption of solid, liquid and gaseous
fuels, gas flaring and the production of cement.
Cellular subscribers (also referred to as cellular
mobile subscribers) Subscribers to an automatic
public mobile telephone service that provides access
to the public switched telephone network using cellular technology. Systems can be analogue or digital.
Children reaching grade 5 The percentage of children starting primary school who eventually attain
grade 5 (grade 4 if the duration of primary school is

268

four years). The estimates are based on the reconstructed cohort method, which uses data on enrolment and repeaters for two consecutive years.
Consumer price index, average annual change in
Reflects changes in the cost to the average consumer
of acquiring a basket of goods and services that may
be fixed or may change at specified intervals.
Condom use at last high-risk sex Men and women
who say they used a condom the last time they had sex
with a non-marital, non-cohabiting partner, of those who
have had sex with such a partner in the last 12 months.
Contraceptive prevalence rate The percentage of
married women (including women in union) ages
15–49 who are using, or whose partners are using, any
form of contraception, whether modern or traditional.
Contributing family worker Defined according to
the 1993 International Classification by Status in
Employment (ICSE) as a person who works without
pay in an economic enterprise operated by a related
person living in the same household.
Crime, people victimized by The percentage of the
population who perceive that they have been victimized by certain types of crime in the preceding year,
based on responses to the International Crime Victims Survey.
Debt forgiveness, gross bilateral Forgiveness of
bilateral debts of developing countries with the support of official funds of donor countries, whether
owed to public or private creditors. Offsetting entries
for official development assistance (ODA) principal are not subtracted. See offficial development
assistance (ODA), net.
Debt relief committed under HIPC initiative Forgiveness of loans as a component of official development assistance under the Debt Initiative for Heavily
Indebted Poor Countries (HIPCs). The initiative is
the first comprehensive approach to reducing the
external debt of the world’s poorest, most heavily
indebted countries, which total 42 in number.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

Debt service, total The sum of principal repayments
and interest actually paid in foreign currency, goods
or services on long-term debt (having a maturity of
more than one year), interest paid on short-term debt
and repayments to the International Monetary Fund.
Drugs, affordable essential, population with sustainable access to The estimated percentage of the
population for whom a minimum of 20 of the most
essential drugs—those that satisfy the health care
needs of the majority of the population—are continuously and affordably available at public or private health facilities or drug outlets within one hour’s
travel from home.
Earned income (PPP US$), estimated Roughly
derived on the basis of the ratio of the female nonagricultural wage to the male non-agricultural wage,
the female and male shares of the economically active
population, total female and male population and
GDP per capita (PPP US$). For details on this estimation, see Technical note 1.
Earned income, ratio of estimated female to male
The ratio of estimated female earned income to estimated male earned income. See earned income (PPP
US$), estimated (female and male).
Economic activity rate, female The share of the
female population ages 15 and above who supply, or
are available to supply, labour for the production of
goods and services.
Education expenditure, public Includes both capital expenditures (spending on construction, renovation, major repairs and purchase of heavy equipment
or vehicles) and current expenditures (spending on
goods and services that are consumed within the current year and would need to be renewed the following year). It covers such expenditures as staff salaries
and benefits, contracted or purchased services, books
and teaching materials, welfare services, furniture
and equipment, minor repairs, fuel, insurance, rents,
telecommunications and travel. See education levels.
Education index One of the three indices on which
the human development index is built. It is based on
the adult literacy rate and the combined gross enrolment ratio for primary, secondary and tertiary schools.
For details on how the index is calculated, see Technical note 1.
Education levels Categorized as pre-primary, primary, secondary or tertiary in accordance with the
International Standard Classification of Education
(ISCED). Pre-primary education (ISCED level 0) is

DEFINITIONS OF STATISTICAL TERMS

provided at such schools as kindergartens and nursery and infant schools and is intended for children
not old enough to enter school at the primary level.
Primary education (ISCED level 1) provides the
basic elements of education at such establishments
as primary and elementary schools. Secondary education (ISCED levels 2 and 3) is based on at least four
years of previous instruction at the first level and provides general or specialized instruction, or both, at
such institutions as middle schools, secondary schools,
high schools, teacher training schools at this level and
vocational or technical schools. Tertiary education
(ISCED levels 5–7) refers to education at such institutions as universities, teachers colleges and higher
level professional schools—requiring as a minimum
condition of admission the successful completion of
education at the second level or evidence of the
attainment of an equivalent level of knowledge.
Electricity consumption per capita Refers to gross
production, in per capita terms, which includes consumption by station auxiliaries and any losses in the
transformers that are considered integral parts of
the station. Also included is total electric energy produced by pumping installations without deduction
of electric energy absorbed by pumping.
Employment by economic activity, female Female
employment in industry, agriculture or services as
defined according to the International Standard
Industrial Classification (ISIC) system (revisions 2 and
3). Industry refers to mining and quarrying, manufacturing, construction and public utilities (gas, water
and electricity). Agriculture refers to activities in
agriculture, hunting, forestry and fishing. Services
refer to wholesale and retail trade; restaurants and
hotels; transport, storage and communications;
finance, insurance, real estate and business services;
and community, social and personal services.
Energy requirements, total Energy consumption
plus the traditional fuels which include fuelwood,
charcoal, bagasse (sugar cane waste), animal, vegetal and other wastes.
Energy use, GDP per unit of The ratio of GDP (in
1995 PPP US$) to commercial energy use, measured
in kilograms of oil equivalent. This ratio provides a
measure of energy efficiency by showing comparable and consistent estimates of real GDP across
countries relative to physical inputs (units of energy
use). See GDP (gross domestic product) and PPP
(purchasing power parity).
Enrolment ratio, gross The number of students
enrolled in a level of education, regardless of age, as

269

a percentage of the population of official school age
for that level. The gross enrolment ratio can be
greater than 100% as a result of grade repetition and
entry at ages younger or older than the typical age at
that grade level. See education levels.
Enrolment ratio, gross, combined for primary, secondary and tertiary schools The number of students
enrolled in primary, secondary and tertiary levels of
education, regardless of age, as a percentage of the population of official school age for the three levels. See
education levels and enrolment ratio, gross.
Enrolment ratio, net The number of students enrolled
in a level of education who are of official school age
for that level, as a percentage of the population of official school age for that level. See education levels.
Environmental treaties, ratification of After signing a treaty, a country must ratify it, often with the
approval of its legislature. Such process implies not
only an expression of interest as indicated by the
signature, but also the transformation of the treaty’s
principles and obligations into national law.
Exports, high technology Exports of products with
a high intensity of research and development. They
include high-technology products such as in aerospace, computers, pharmaceuticals, scientific instruments and electrical machinery.
Exports, manufactured Defined according to the
Standard International Trade Classification to include
exports of chemicals, basic manufactures, machinery
and transport equipment and other miscellaneous
manufactured goods.
Exports of goods and services The value of all
goods and other market services provided to the rest
of the world. Included is the value of merchandise,
freight, insurance, transport, travel, royalties, licence
fees and other services, such as communication, construction, financial, information, business, personal
and government services. Excluded are labour and
property income and transfer payments.
Exports, primary Defined according to the Standard International Trade Classification to include
exports of food, agricultural raw materials, fuels and
ores and metals.
Fertility rate, total The number of children that
would be born to each woman if she were to live to
the end of her child-bearing years and bear children
at each age in accordance with prevailing age-specific
fertility rates.

270

Foreign direct investment, net inflows of Net inflows
of investment to acquire a lasting management interest (10% or more of voting stock) in an enterprise operating in an economy other than that of the investor.
It is the sum of equity capital, reinvestment of earnings, other long-term capital and short-term capital.
Fuel consumption, traditional Estimated consumption of fuel wood, charcoal, bagasse (sugar cane
waste) and animal and vegetable wastes. See energy
requirement, total.
GDP (gross domestic product) The sum of value
added by all resident producers in the economy plus
any product taxes (less subsidies) not included in the
valuation of output. It is calculated without making
deductions for depreciation of fabricated capital
assets or for depletion and degradation of natural
resources. Value added is the net output of an industry after adding up all outputs and subtracting intermediate inputs.
GDP (US$) GDP converted to US dollars using the
average official exchange rate reported by the International Monetary Fund. An alternative conversion
factor is applied if the official exchange rate is judged
to diverge by an exceptionally large margin from the
rate effectively applied to transactions in foreign currencies and traded products. See GDP (gross domestic product).
GDP index One of the three indices on which the
human development index is built. It is based on
GDP per capita (PPP US$). For details on how the
index is calculated, see Technical note 1.
GDP per capita (PPP US$) See GDP (gross domestic product) and PPP (purchasing power parity).
GDP per capita (US$) GDP (US$) divided by
midyear population. See GDP (US$).
GDP per capita annual growth rate Least squares
annual growth rate, calculated from constant price
GDP per capita in local currency units.
Gender empowerment measure (GEM) A composite index measuring gender inequality in three
basic dimensions of empowerment—economic participation and decision-making, political participation
and decision-making and power over economic
resources. For details on how the index is calculated, see Technical note 1.
Gender-related development index (GDI) A composite index measuring average achievement in the

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

three basic dimensions captured in the human development index—a long and healthy life, knowledge and
a decent standard of living—adjusted to account for
inequalities between men and women. For details on
how the index is calculated, see Technical note 1.
Gini index Measures the extent to which the distribution of income (or consumption) among individuals or households within a country deviates from a
perfectly equal distribution. A Lorenz curve plots the
cumulative percentages of total income received
against the cumulative number of recipients, starting
with the poorest individual or household. The Gini
index measures the area between the Lorenz curve
and a hypothetical line of absolute equality, expressed
as a percentage of the maximum area under the line.
A value of 0 represents perfect equality, a value of 100
perfect inequality.
GNI (gross national income) The sum of value
added by all resident producers in the economy plus
any product taxes (less subsidies) not included in the
valuation of output plus net receipts of primary
income (compensation of employees and property
income) from abroad. Value added is the net output
of an industry after adding up all outputs and subtracting intermediate inputs. Data are in current US
dollars converted using the World Bank Atlas
method.
Health expenditure per capita (PPP US$) The
sum of public and private expenditure (in PPP US$),
divided by the population. Health expenditure
includes the provision of health services (preventive
and curative), family planning activities, nutrition
activities and emergency aid designated for health,
but excludes the provision of water and sanitation.
See health expenditure, private; health expenditure,
public; and PPP (purchasing power parity).
Health expenditure, private Direct household (out
of pocket) spending, private insurance, spending
by non-profit institutions serving households and
direct service payments by private corporations.
Together with public health expenditure, it makes
up total health expenditure. See health expenditure
per capita (PPP US$) and health expenditure,
public.
Health expenditure, public Current and capital
spending from government (central and local)
budgets, external borrowings and grants (including
donations from international agencies and nongovernmental organizations) and social (or compulsory) health insurance funds. Together with private
health expenditure, it makes up total health expen-

DEFINITIONS OF STATISTICAL TERMS

diture. See health expenditure per capita (PPP
US$) and health expenditure, private.
HIPC completion point The date at which a country included in the Debt Initiative for Heavily Indebted
Poor Countries (HIPCs) successfully completes the
key structural reforms agreed on at the HIPC decision point, including developing and implementing
a poverty reduction strategy. The country then receives
the bulk of its debt relief under the HIPC Initiative
without further policy conditions.
HIPC decision point The date at which a heavily
indebted poor country with an established track
record of good performance under adjustment programmes supported by the International Monetary
Fund and the World Bank commits, under the Debt
Initiative for Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
(HIPCs), to undertake additional reforms and to
develop and implement a poverty reduction strategy.
HIPC trust fund, bilateral pledges to the A firm
obligation undertaken by an official donor to provide
specified assistance to the HIPC trust fund. Bilateral
commitments are recorded in the full amount of
expected transfer, irrespective of the time required
for the completion of disbursements.
HIV prevalence The percentage of people ages
15–49 who are infected with HIV.
Human development index (HDI) A composite
index measuring average achievement in three basic
dimensions of human development—a long and
healthy life, knowledge and a decent standard of living. For details on how the index is calculated, see
Technical note 1.
Human poverty index (HPI-1) for developing
countries A composite index measuring deprivations in the three basic dimensions captured in the
human development index—a long and healthy life,
knowledge and a decent standard of living. For
details on how the index is calculated, see Technical note 1.
Human poverty index (HPI-2) for selected highincome OECD countries A composite index measuring deprivations in the three basic dimensions
captured in the human development index— a long
and healthy life, knowledge and a decent standard
of living—and also capturing social exclusion. For
details on how the index is calculated, see Technical note 1.
Illiteracy rate, adult Calculated as 100 minus the

271

adult literacy rate. See literacy rate, adult.
Immunization, one-year-olds fully immunized
against measles or tuberculosis One-year-olds
injected with an antigen or a serum containing specific antibodies against measles or tuberculosis.
Imports of goods and services The value of all
goods and other market services received from the
rest of the world. Included is the value of merchandise, freight, insurance, transport, travel, royalties,
licence fees and other services, such as communication, construction, financial, information, business,
personal and government services. Excluded are
labour and property income and transfer payments.
Income poverty line, population below The percentage of the population living below the specified
poverty line:
• $1 a day—at 1985 international prices (equivalent
to $1.08 at 1993 international prices), adjusted for
purchasing power parity.
• $2 a day—at 1985 international prices (equivalent
to $2.15 at 1993 international prices), adjusted for
purchasing power parity.
• $4 a day—at 1990 international prices, adjusted
for purchasing power parity.
• $11 a day (per person for a family of three)—at
1994 international prices, adjusted for purchasing power parity.
• National poverty line—the poverty line deemed
appropriate for a country by its authorities.
National estimates are based on populationweighted subgroup estimates from household
surveys.
• 50% of median income—50% of the median
adjusted disposable household income.
See PPP (purchasing power parity).
Income or consumption, shares of The shares of
income or consumption accruing to subgroups of
population indicated by deciles or quintiles, based on
national household surveys covering various years.
Consumption surveys produce results showing lower
levels of inequality between poor and rich than do
income surveys, as poor people generally consume a
greater share of their income. Because data come
from surveys covering different years and using
different methodologies, comparisons between countries must be made with caution.
Infant mortality rate The probability of dying
between birth and exactly one year of age, expressed
per 1,000 live births.

272

Internally displaced people People who are displaced within their own country and to whom the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
(UNHCR) extends protection or assistance, or both,
generally pursuant to a special request by a competent organ of the United Nations.
Internet users People with access to the worldwide
network.
Labour force All those employed (including people
above a specified age who, during the reference
period, were in paid employment, at work, selfemployed or with a job but not at work) and unemployed (including people above a specified age who,
during the reference period, were without work,
currently available for work and seeking work).
Legislators, senior officials and managers, female
Women’s share of positions defined according to the
International Standard Classification of Occupations
(ISCO-88) to include legislators, senior government
officials, traditional chiefs and heads of villages, senior
officials of special interest organizations, corporate
managers, directors and chief executives, production and operations department managers and other
department and general managers.
Life expectancy at birth The number of years a
newborn infant would live if prevailing patterns of
age-specific mortality rates at the time of birth were
to stay the same throughout the child’s life.
Life expectancy index One of the three indices on
which the human development index is built. For
details on how the index is calculated, see Technical note 1.
Literacy rate, adult The percentage of people ages
15 and above who can, with understanding, both read
and write a short, simple statement related to their
everyday life.
Literacy rate, youth The percentage of people ages
15–24 who can, with understanding, both read and
write a short, simple statement related to their
everyday life.
Literacy skills, functional, people lacking The
share of the population ages 16–65 scoring at level 1
on the prose literacy scale of the International Adult
Literacy Survey. Most tasks at this level require the
reader to locate a piece of information in the text that
is identical to or synonymous with the information
given in the directive.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

Malaria cases The total number of malaria cases
reported to the World Health Organization by
countries in which malaria is endemic. Many countries report only laboratory-confirmed cases, but
many in Sub-Saharan Africa report clinically diagnosed cases as well.
Malaria prevention, children under age five The
percentage of children under age five sleeping under
insecticide-treated bed nets.
Malaria treatment, children under five with fever
The percentage of children under five who were ill
with fever in the two weeks before the survey and
received anti-malarial drugs.
Market activities Defined according to the 1993
revised UN System of National Accounts to include
employment in establishments, primary production
not in establishments, services for income and other
production of goods not in establishments. See nonmarket activities and work time, total.
Maternal mortality ratio The annual number of
deaths of women from pregnancy-related causes per
100,000 live births.
Maternal mortality ratio, adjusted Maternal mortality ratio adjusted to account for well documented
problems of underreporting and misclassification of
maternal deaths, as well as estimates for countries with
no data. See maternal mortality ratio.
Maternal mortality ratio, reported Maternal mortality ratio as reported by national authorities. See
maternal mortality ratio.
Medium-variant projection Population projections
by the United Nations Population Division assuming medium-fertility path, normal mortality and normal international migration. Each assumption implies
projected trends in fertility, mortality and net migration levels, depending on the specific demographic
characteristics and relevant policies of each country
or group of countries. In addition, for the countries
highly affected by the HIV/AIDS epidemic, the
impact of HIV/AIDS is included in the projection.
The UN Population Division also publishes low and
high variant projections. For more information, see
http://esa.un.org/unpp/assumptions.html.
Military expenditure All expenditures of the defence
ministry and other ministries on recruiting and training military personnel as well as on construction and
purchase of military supplies and equipment. Military

DEFINITIONS OF STATISTICAL TERMS

assistance is included in the expenditures of the
donor country.
Non-market activities Defined according to the
1993 revised UN System of National Accounts to
include household maintenance (cleaning, laundry
and meal preparation and cleanup), management
and shopping for own household; care for children,
the sick, the elderly and the disabled in own household; and community services. See market activities
and work time, total.
Official aid Grants or loans that meet the same
standards as for official development assistance
(ODA) except that recipient countries do not qualify as recipients of ODA. These countries are identified in part II of the Development Assistance
Committee (DAC) list of recipient countries, which
includes more advanced countries of Central and
Eastern Europe, the countries of the former Soviet
Union and certain advanced developing countries
and territories.
Official development assistance (ODA), net
Disbursements of loans made on concessional terms
(net of repayments of principal) and grants by official agencies of the members of the Development
Assistance Committee (DAC), by multilateral institutions and by non-DAC countries to promote economic development and welfare in countries and
territories in part I of the DAC list of aid recipients.
It includes loans with a grant element of at least 25%
(calculated at a rate of discount of 10%).
Official development assistance (ODA), per capita
of donor country Official development assistance
granted by a specific country divided by this country’s total population. See official development assistance, net.
Official development assistance (ODA) to basic
social services ODA directed to basic social services, which include basic education (primary education, early childhood education and basic life skills
for youth and adults), basic health (including basic
health care, basic health infrastructure, basic nutrition, infectious disease control, health education and
health personnel development) and population policies and programmes and reproductive health
(population policy and administrative management,
reproductive health care, family planning, control of
sexually transmitted diseases, including HIV/AIDS,
and personnel development for population and reproductive health). Aid to water supply and sanitation
is included only if it has a poverty focus.

273

Official development assistance (ODA) to least
developed countries See official development assistance (ODA), net and country classifications for
least developed countries.
Official development assistance (ODA), untied
bilateral ODA for which the associated goods and
services may be fully and freely procured in substantially all countries and that is given by one country to another.
Oral rehydration therapy use rate The percentage
of all cases of diarrhoea in children under age five in
which the child received increased fluids and continued feeding.
Patents granted to residents Refers to documents
issued by a government office that describe an invention and create a legal situation in which the patented
invention can normally be exploited (made, used,
sold, imported) only by or with the authorization of
the patentee. The protection of inventions is generally limited to 20 years from the filing date of the application for the grant of a patent.
Physicians Includes graduates of a faculty or school
of medicine who are working in any medical field
(including teaching, research and practice).
Population growth rate, annual Refers to the average annual exponential growth rate for the period
indicated. See population, total.
Population, total Refers to the de facto population,
which includes all people actually present in a given
area at a given time.
Population, urban The midyear population of areas
classified as urban according to the criteria used by
each country, as reported to the United Nations.
See population, total.
PPP (purchasing power parity) A rate of exchange
that accounts for price differences across countries,
allowing international comparisons of real output and
incomes. At the PPP US$ rate (as used in this
Report), PPP US$1 has the same purchasing power
in the domestic economy as $1 has in the United
States.
Private flows, other A category combining nondebt-creating portfolio equity investment flows (the
sum of country funds, depository receipts and direct
purchases of shares by foreign investors), portfolio
debt flows (bond issues purchased by foreign

274

investors) and bank and trade-related lending (commercial bank lending and other commercial credits).
Probability at birth of not surviving to a specified
age Calculated as 1 minus the probability of surviving to a specified age for a given cohort. See probability at birth of surviving to a specified age.
Probability at birth of surviving to a specified age
The probability of a newborn infant surviving to a
specified age if subject to prevailing patterns of agespecific mortality rates.
Professional and technical workers, female
Women’s share of positions defined according to
the International Standard Classification of Occupations (ISCO-88) to include physical, mathematical and engineering science professionals (and
associate professionals), life science and health professionals (and associate professionals), teaching professionals (and associate professionals) and other
professionals and associate professionals.
Refugees People who have fled their country because
of a well founded fear of persecution for reasons of
their race, religion, nationality, political opinion or
membership in a particular social group and who cannot or do not want to return. Country of asylum is
the country in which a refugee has filed a claim of asylum but has not yet received a decision or is otherwise registered as an asylum seeker. Country of
origin refers to the claimant’s nationality or country
of citizenship.
Research and development expenditures Current
and capital expenditures (including overhead) on
creative, systematic activity intended to increase the
stock of knowledge. Included are fundamental and
applied research and experimental development
work leading to new devices, products or processes.
Researchers in R&D People trained to work in
any field of science who are engaged in professional
research and development (R&D) activity. Most such
jobs require the completion of tertiary education.
Royalties and licence fees, receipts of Receipts by
residents from non-residents for the authorized use
of intangible, non-produced, non-financial assets and
proprietary rights (such as patents, trademarks,
copyrights, franchises and industrial processes) and
for the use, through licensing agreements, of
produced originals of prototypes (such as films and
manuscripts). Data are based on the balance of
payments.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

Sanitation facilities, improved, population with sustainable access to The percentage of the population
with access to adequate excreta disposal facilities, such
as a connection to a sewer or septic tank system, a
pour-flush latrine, a simple pit latrine or a ventilated
improved pit latrine. An excreta disposal system is
considered adequate if it is private or shared (but not
public) and if it can effectively prevent human, animal and insect contact with excreta.

Tuberculosis cases detected under DOTS The
percentage of estimated new infectious tuberculosis
cases detected (diagnosed in a given period) under
the directly observed treatment, short course (DOTS)
case detection and treatment strategy.

Science, math and engineering, tertiary students
in The share of tertiary students enrolled in natural
sciences; engineering; mathematics and computer
sciences; architecture and town planning; transport
and communications; trade, craft and industrial programmes; and agriculture, forestry and fisheries. See
education levels.

Under height for age, children under age five
Includes moderate and severe stunting, defined as
more than two standard deviations below the median
height for age of the reference population.

Seats in parliament held by women Refers to seats
held by women in a lower or single house or an
upper house or senate, where relevant.
Smoking, prevalence among adults of The percentage of men and women who smoke cigarettes.
Tariff and non-tariff barriers, average Aggregate
measure of trade barriers facing developing countries. It measures monetary barriers (tariffs) as well as
quotas and subsidies in manufactures, textiles, agricultural products and fuels, weighted by endogeneitycorrected import volume.
Telephone mainlines Telephone lines connecting a
customer’s equipment to the public switched telephone network.
Tenure, households with access to secure Households that own or are purchasing their homes, are renting privately or are in social housing or subtenancy.
Terms of trade The ratio of the export price index
to the import price index measured relative to a base
year. A value of more than 100 means that the price
of exports has risen relative to the price of imports.
Tuberculosis cases The total number of tuberculosis
cases reported to the World Health Organization. A
tuberculosis case is defined as a patient in whom
tuberculosis has been bacteriologically confirmed
or diagnosed by a clinician.
Tuberculosis cases cured under DOTS The percentage of estimated new infectious tuberculosis cases
cured under the directly observed treatment, short
course (DOTS) case detection and treatment strategy.

DEFINITIONS OF STATISTICAL TERMS

Under-five mortality rate The probability of dying
between birth and exactly five years of age, expressed
per 1,000 live births.

Under weight for age, children under age five
Includes moderate underweight, defined as more
than two standard deviations below the median
weight for age of the reference population, and severe
underweight, defined as more than three standard
deviations below the median weight.
Undernourished people People whose food intake
is chronically insufficient to meet their minimum
energy requirements.
Unemployment Refers to all people above a specified
age who are not in paid employment or self-employed,
but are available for work and have taken specific
steps to seek paid employment or self-employment.
Unemployment, long-term Unemployment lasting
12 months or longer. See unemployment.
Unemployment rate The unemployed divided by the
labour force (those employed plus the unemployed).
Unemployment rate, youth Refers to unemployment between the ages of 15 or 16 and 24, depending on the national definition. See unemployment.
Water source, improved, population without
sustainable access to Calculated as 100 minus the
percentage of the population with sustainable access
to an improved water source. Unimproved sources
include vendors, bottled water, tanker trucks and
unprotected wells and springs. See water source,
improved, population with sustainable access to.
Water source, improved, population with sustainable access to The share of the population with
reasonable access to any of the following types of
water supply for drinking: household connections,
public standpipes, boreholes, protected dug wells, protected springs and rainwater collection. Reasonable

275

access is defined as the availability of at least 20 litres
a person per day from a source within 1 kilometre of
the user’s dwelling.
Women in government at ministerial level Defined
according to each state’s definition of a national
executive and may include women serving as ministers
and vice ministers and those holding other ministerial positions, including parliamentary secretaries.
Work time, total Time spent on market and nonmarket activities as defined according to the 1993
revised UN System of National Accounts. See market activities and non-market activities.

276

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

Statistical references

Aten, Bettina, Alan Heston, and Robert Summers. 2001. Correspondence on data from the Penn World Tables 6.0. Philadelphia. March.
———. 2002. “Penn World Tables 6.1.” University of Pennsylvania, Center for International Comparisons, Philadelphia.
[http://pwt.econ.upenn.edu/]. Accessed March 2004.
Birzeit University. 2002. Palestine Human Development Report
2002. Ramallah, Occupied Palestinian Territories.
CDIAC (Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center). 2004.
Trends: A Compendium of Data on Global Change.
[http://cdiac.esd.ornl.gov/trends/trends.htm]. Accessed
March 2004.
FAO (Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations).
2003. The State of Food Insecurity in the World 2003. Rome.
Goldschmidt-Clermont, Luisella, and Elisabetta Pagnossin
Aligisakis. 1995. “Measures of Unrecorded Economic Activities in Fourteen Countries.” Background paper for Human
Development Report 1995. United Nations Development
Programme, Human Development Report Office, New York.
Harvey, Andrew S. 1995. “Market and Non-Market Productive
Activity in Less Developed and Developing Countries: Lessons
from Time Use.” Background paper for Human Development
Report 1995. United Nations Development Programme,
Human Development Report Office, New York.
———. 2001. “National Time Use Data on Market and Non-Market Work by Both Women and Men.” Background paper for
Human Development Report 2001. United Nations Development Programme, Human Development Report Office,
New York.
IISS (International Institute for Strategic Studies). 2003. The Military Balance 2003-2004. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
ILO (International Labour Organization). 2002. Estimates and Projections of the Economically Active Population, 19502010, 4th ed., rev. 2. Database. Geneva.
———. 2003. Key Indicators of the Labour Market, Third Edition. [http://kilm.ilo.org/kilm/]. Accessed March 2004.
———. 2004a. Database on International Labour Standards
(ILOLEX) [http://www.ilo.org/ilolex/english/docs/
declworld.htm]. Accessed February 2004.
———. 2004b. Laboursta Database. [http://laborsta.ilo.org].
Accessed March 2004.
IMF (International Monetary Fund) and IDA (International Development Association). 2004. “Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative—Status of Implementation.” 31 March.
Washington, DC.
IMF (International Monetary Fund) and World Bank. 2003. “Status of Bilateral Donor Pledges to the HIPC Trust Fund.”
[http://www.worldbank.org/hipc/progress-to-date/
TrustFundSep03.pdf]. Accessed March 2004.
IPU (Inter-Parliamentary Union). 1995. Women in Parliaments
1945-1995: A World Statistical Survey. Geneva.
———. 2001. Correspondence on women in government at the ministerial level. March. Geneva.
———. 2004a. Correspondence on year women received the right
to vote and to stand for election and year first woman was
elected or appointed to parliament. March. Geneva.

STATISTICAL REFERENCES

———. 2004b. Parline Database and World Classification of
Women in National Parliaments. [www.ipu.org]. Accessed
March 2004.
ITU (International Telecommunication Union). World Telecommunication Indicators Database, 7th edition. [http://www.
itu.int/ITU-D/ict/publications/world/world.html]. March
2004.
LIS (Luxembourg Income Study). 2004. “Relative Poverty Rates
for the Total Population, Children and the Elderly.”
[http://www.lisproject.org/keyfigures/povertytable.htm].
Accessed February 2004.
Milanovic, Branko. 2002. Correspondence on income, inequality
and poverty during the transition from planned to market economy. World Bank. March. Washington, D.C.
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development), Development Assistance Committee. 2004a. Correspondence on agricultural support estimates. February 2004.
Paris.
———. 2004b. Correspondence on official development assistance
disbursed. February. Paris.
———. 2004c. Correspondence on the employment rates. March.
Geneva.
———. 2004d. Correspondence on long-term unemployment rates.
March. Geneva.
———. 2004e. DAC Journal: Development Cooperation 2003
Report (5)1. Paris.
———. 2004f. DAC Online. Database. Paris.
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development), and Statistics Canada. 2000. Literacy in the Information Age: Final Report on the International Adult
Literacy Survey. Paris.
Polity IV. 2002. “Political Regime Characteristics and Transitions,
1800–2000.” [http://www.bsos.umd.edu/cidcm/inscr/polity/
index.htm]. Accessed April 2002.
Roodman, David. 2004. “The Commitment to Development Index:
2004 Edition.” Center for Global Development, Washington,
DC.
SIPRI (Stockholm International Peace Research Institute). 2003.
SIPRI Yearbook: Armaments, Disarmaments and International Security. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
———. 2004a. Correspondence on military expenditure data.
March. Stockholm.
———. 2004b. SIPRI Arms Transfers. Database. February.
Stockholm.
Smeeding, Timothy M. 1997. “Financial Poverty in Developed
Countries: The Evidence from the Luxembourg Income
Study.” In Sheldon H. Danziger and Robert H. Haveman, eds.,
Understanding Poverty. New York: Russell Sage Foundation;
and Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Smeeding, Timothy M., Lee Rainwater, and Gary Burtless. 2000.
“United States Poverty in a Cross-National Context.” In Sheldon H. Danziger and Robert H. Haveman, eds., Understanding Poverty. New York: Russell Sage Foundation; and
Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press.
Statec. 2004. Correspondence on gross enrolment ratio for Luxembourg. April. Luxembourg.

277

UN (United Nations). 2001. World Population Prospects 19502050: The 2000 Revision. Database. Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Population Division. New York.
———. 2002. Correspondence on time use surveys. Department of
Economic and Social Affairs, Statistics Division. February. New
York.
———. 2003. World Population Prospects 1950-2050: The 2002
Revision. Database. Department of Economic and Social
Affairs, Population Division. New York.
———. 2004a. Comtrade. Database. Department of Social and
Economic Affairs, Statistics Division. New York.
———. 2004b. Correspondence on energy consumption. Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Statistics Division.
March. New York.
———. 2004c. Correspondence on traditional fuel use. Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Statistics Division.
March. New York.
———. 2004d. Correspondence on 2002 urban population interpolation. Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Population Division. March. New York.
———. 2004e. Millennium Indicators Database. Department of
Economic and Social Affairs, Statistics Division. [http://
millenniumindicators.un.org]. Accessed March 2004.
———. 2004f. “Multilateral Treaties Deposited with the SecretaryGeneral.” [http://untreaty.un.org]. Accessed March 2004.
———. 2004g. United Nations Population Division Database on
Contraceptive Use. Department of Economic and Social
Affairs, Population Division. March. New York.
———. 2004h. World Urbanization Prospects: The 2003 Revision. Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Population
Division. New York.
UNAIDS (Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS). 2004.
Correspondence on HIV prevalence rate. May. Geneva.
UNCTAD (United Nations Conference on Trade and Development). 2001. “Third United Nations Conference on the Least
Developed Countries.” [http://www.unctad.org/conference/].
Accessed April 2002.
UNDP (United Nations Development Programme). 2000. Human
Development Report 2000. Oxford University Press. New
York.
———. 2002a. Bosnia and Herzegovina Human Development
Report 2002. Sarajevo.
———. 2002b. East Timor Human Development Report 2002.
Dili.
———. 2004. Correspondence with UNDP Country Office in Pakistan on data on women in government at ministerial level.
April. Islamabad.
UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization). 1997. International Standard Classification of Education
1997. Available at [http://www.uis.unesco.org/ev_en.php
?ID=3813_201&ID2=DO_TOPIC]. Accessed March 2004.
———. 1999. Statistical Yearbook 1999. Paris.
———. 2003. Education for All Global Monitoring Report
2003/4. Paris.
UNESCO Institute for Statistics (United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization). 2001. Correspondence
on combined gross enrolment ratio. March. Paris.
———. 2003a. Correspondence on adult and youth literacy rates.
March. Montreal.
———. 2003b. Correspondence on combined gross enrolment
ratios. March. Montreal.
———. 2003c. Correspondence on education expenditure. February. Montreal.

278

———. 2004a. Correspondence on adult and youth literacy rates.
March. Montreal.
———. 2004b. Correspondence on education expenditure. March.
Montreal.
———. 2004c. Correspondence on gross, net enrolment ratios and
children reaching grade 5. March. Montreal.
———. 2004d. “Cultural Statistics Programme of the UNESCO
Institute for Statistics.” Background note prepared for Human
Development Report 2004. Montreal.
———. 2004e. “Measuring Literacy.” Background note prepared
for Human Development Report 2004. Montreal.
UNHCR (United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees).
2004. Correspondence on internally displaced people,
refugees by country of asylum and by country of origin.
April. Geneva.
UNICEF (United Nations Children’s Fund). 2000. State of the
World’s Children 2001. New York: Oxford University
Press.
———. 2003a. Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS) 2002. Dili.
———. 2003b. The State of the World’s Children 2004. New York:
Oxford University Press.
———. 2004. Correspondence on infant and under-five mortality
rates. March. New York.
UNODC (United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime). 2004.
Correspondence on data on crime victims. March. Vienna.
WHO (World Health Organization). 2003. Global Tuberculosis
Control: WHO Report 2003. [http://www.who.int/gtb/
publications/globrep/]. Accessed March 2003.
———. 2004a. Correspondence on access to essential drugs. March.
Geneva.
———. 2004b. Correspondence on health expenditure. March.
Geneva.
———. 2004c. Correspondence on HIV prevalence rate. March.
Geneva.
———. 2004d. Correspondence on human resources for health.
March. Geneva.
———. 2004e. Correspondence on tuberculosis cases. March.
Geneva.
———. 2004f. “Health Metrics Network: An Emerging Global
Partnership for Health Information.” Background note prepared for Human Development Report 2004. Geneva.
WIPO (World Intellectual Property Organization). 2004. Intellectual Property Statistics. Publication B. Geneva.
World Bank. 2003a. Global Economic Prospects and the Developing Countries. Washington, DC.
———. 2003b. World Development Indicators 2003. CD-ROM.
Washington, DC.
———. 2004a. Correspondence on data on income distribution.
March. Washington, DC.
———. 2004b. Correspondence on GDP per capita annual growth
rates. March. Washington, DC.
———. 2004c. “HIPC Initiative: Status of Country Cases Considered Under the Initiative, September 2003.” [http://www.
worldbank.org/hipc/progress-to-date/status_table_Sep03.pdf].
Accessed March 2004.
———. 2004d. “International Comparison Programme (ICP).”
Background note prepared for Human Development Report
2004. Washington, DC.
———. 2004e. “The Marrakech Action Plans for Statistics.” Background note prepared for Human Development Report
2004. Washington, DC.
———. 2004f. World Development Indicators 2004. CD-ROM.
Washington, DC.

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

Classification of countries
Countries in the human development aggregates a
Medium human
development
(HDI 0.500–0.799)

High human
development
(HDI 0.800 and above)
Antigua and Barbuda
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Bahamas
Bahrain
Barbados
Belgium
Brunei Darussalam
Canada
Chile
Costa Rica
Croatia
Cuba
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Denmark
Estonia
Finland
France
Germany
Greece
Hong Kong, China (SAR)
Hungary
Iceland
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Japan
Korea, Rep. of
Kuwait
Latvia
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Malta
Mexico
Netherlands
New Zealand
Norway
Poland
Portugal
Qatar
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Seychelles

Singapore
Slovakia
Slovenia
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
Trinidad and Tobago
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
United States
Uruguay
(55 countries or areas)

Albania
Algeria
Armenia
Azerbaijan
Bangladesh
Belarus
Belize
Bhutan
Bolivia
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Botswana
Brazil
Bulgaria
Cambodia
Cameroon
Cape Verde
China
Colombia
Comoros
Dominica
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Egypt
El Salvador
Equatorial Guinea
Fiji
Gabon
Georgia
Ghana
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
India
Indonesia
Iran, Islamic Rep. of
Jamaica
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kyrgyzstan
Lao People’s Dem. Rep.
Lebanon
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
Macedonia, TFYR

Low human
development
(HDI below 0.500)
Malaysia
Maldives
Mauritius
Moldova, Rep. of
Mongolia
Morocco
Myanmar
Namibia
Nepal
Nicaragua
Occupied Palestinian Territories
Oman
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Romania
Russian Federation
Saint Lucia
St. Vincent & the Grenadines
Samoa (Western)
São Tomé and Principe
Saudi Arabia
Solomon Islands
South Africa
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Suriname
Swaziland
Syrian Arab Republic
Tajikistan
Thailand
Tonga
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Ukraine
Uzbekistan
Vanuatu
Venezuela
Viet Nam
(86 countries or areas)

Angola
Benin
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Central African Republic
Chad
Congo
Congo, Dem. Rep. of the
Côte d’Ivoire
Djibouti
Eritrea
Ethiopia
Gambia
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Haiti
Kenya
Lesotho
Madagascar
Malawi
Mali
Mauritania
Mozambique
Niger
Nigeria
Pakistan
Rwanda
Senegal
Sierra Leone
Tanzania, U. Rep. of
Timor-Leste
Togo
Uganda
Yemen
Zambia
Zimbabwe
(36 countries or areas)

a. Excludes the following UN member countries for which the HDI cannot be computed: Afghanistan, Andorra, Iraq, Kiribati, the Democratic Republic of Korea, Liberia,
Liechtenstein, Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, Monaco, Nauru, Palau, San Marino, Serbia and Montenegro, Somalia and Tuvalu.
CLASSIFICATION OF COUNTRIES

279

Countries in the income aggregates a
High income
(GNI per capita of
$9,076 or more in 2002)

Middle income
(GNI per capita of
$736–9,075 in 2002)

Andorra
Antigua and Barbuda
Australia
Austria
Bahamas
Bahrain
Barbados
Belgium
Brunei Darussalam
Canada
Cyprus
Denmark
Finland
France
Germany
Greece
Hong Kong, China (SAR)
Iceland
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Japan
Korea, Rep. of
Kuwait
Luxembourg
Malta
Monaco
Netherlands
New Zealand
Norway
Portugal
Qatar
San Marino
Singapore
Slovenia
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
United States
(41 countries or areas)

Albania
Algeria
Argentina
Armenia
Belarus
Belize
Bolivia
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Botswana
Brazil
Bulgaria
Cape Verde
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Croatia
Cuba
Czech Republic
Djibouti
Dominica
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Egypt
El Salvador
Estonia
Fiji
Gabon
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Honduras
Hungary
Iran, Islamic Rep. of
Iraq
Jamaica
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kiribati
Latvia
Lebanon
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
Lithuania
Macedonia, TFYR
Malaysia
Maldives
Marshall Islands
Mauritius
Mexico
Micronesia, Fed. Sts.

Low income
(GNI per capita of
$735 or less in 2002)
Morocco
Namibia
Northern Mariana Islands
Occupied Palestinian
Territories
Oman
Palau
Panama
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Romania
Russian Federation
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
St. Vincent & the
Grenadines
Samoa (Western)
Saudi Arabia
Serbia and Montenegro
Seychelles
Slovakia
South Africa
Sri Lanka
Suriname
Swaziland
Syrian Arab Republic
Thailand
Tonga
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Ukraine
Uruguay
Vanuatu
Venezuela
(86 countries or areas)

Afghanistan
Angola
Azerbaijan
Bangladesh
Benin
Bhutan
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Central African Republic
Chad
Comoros
Congo
Congo, Dem. Rep. of the
Côte d’Ivoire
Equatorial Guinea
Eritrea
Ethiopia
Gambia
Georgia
Ghana
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Haiti
India
Indonesia
Kenya
Korea, Dem. Rep.
Kyrgyzstan
Lao People’s Dem. Rep.
Lesotho
Liberia
Madagascar
Malawi
Mali
Mauritania
Moldova, Rep. of
Mongolia
Mozambique
Myanmar
Nepal
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Pakistan
Papua New Guinea
Rwanda
São Tomé and Principe
Senegal

Sierra Leone
Solomon Islands
Somalia
Sudan
Tajikistan
Tanzania, U. Rep. of
Timor-Leste
Togo
Uganda
Uzbekistan
Viet Nam
Yemen
Zambia
Zimbabwe
(64 countries or areas)

a. World Bank classification (effective 1 July 2003) based on gross national income (GNI) per capita. Excludes Nauru and Tuvalu because of lack of data.
280

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

Countries in the major world aggregates

Developing countries
Afghanistan
Algeria
Angola
Antigua and Barbuda
Argentina
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belize
Benin
Bhutan
Bolivia
Botswana
Brazil
Brunei Darussalam
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Cape Verde
Central African Republic
Chad
Chile
China
Colombia
Comoros
Congo
Congo, Dem. Rep. of the
Costa Rica
Côte d’Ivoire
Cuba
Cyprus
Djibouti
Dominica
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Egypt
El Salvador
Equatorial Guinea
Eritrea
Ethiopia
Fiji
Gabon
Gambia
Ghana
Grenada
Guatemala
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Guyana
Haiti

Honduras
Hong Kong, China (SAR)
India
Indonesia
Iran, Islamic Rep. of
Iraq
Jamaica
Jordan
Kenya
Kiribati
Korea, Dem. Rep.
Korea, Rep. of
Kuwait
Lao People’s Dem. Rep.
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Maldives
Mali
Marshall Islands
Mauritania
Mauritius
Mexico
Micronesia, Fed. Sts.
Mongolia
Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar
Namibia
Nauru
Nepal
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Occupied Palestinian
Territories
Oman
Pakistan
Palau
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Qatar
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia

St. Vincent & the
Grenadines
Samoa (Western)
São Tomé and Principe
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Solomon Islands
Somalia
South Africa
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Suriname
Swaziland
Syrian Arab Republic
Tanzania, U. Rep. of
Thailand
Timor-Leste
Togo
Tonga
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Tuvalu
Uganda
United Arab Emirates
Uruguay
Vanuatu
Venezuela
Viet Nam
Yemen
Zambia
Zimbabwe
(137 countries or areas)
Least developed
countries
Afghanistan
Angola
Bangladesh
Benin
Bhutan
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cape Verde
Central African Republic
Chad
Comoros
Congo, Dem. Rep. of the

Djibouti
Equatorial Guinea
Eritrea
Ethiopia
Gambia
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Haiti
Kiribati
Lao People’s Dem. Rep.
Lesotho
Liberia
Madagascar
Malawi
Maldives
Mali
Mauritania
Mozambique
Myanmar
Nepal
Niger
Rwanda
Samoa (Western)
São Tomé and Principe
Senegal
Sierra Leone
Solomon Islands
Somalia
Sudan
Tanzania, U. Rep. of
Togo
Tuvalu
Uganda
Vanuatu
Yemen
Zambia
(49 countries or areas)

Central and
Eastern Europe
and the
Commonwealth
of Independent
States (CIS)
Albania
Armenia
Azerbaijan
Belarus
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Bulgaria

Croatia
Czech Republic
Estonia
Georgia
Hungary
Kazakhstan
Kyrgyzstan
Latvia
Lithuania
Macedonia, TFYR
Moldova, Rep. of
Poland
Romania
Russian Federation
Serbia and Montenegro
Slovakia
Slovenia
Tajikistan
Turkmenistan
Ukraine
Uzbekistan
(27 countries or areas)

OECD
Australia
Austria
Belgium
Canada
Czech Republic
Denmark
Finland
France
Germany
Greece
Hungary
Iceland
Ireland
Italy
Japan
Korea, Rep. of
Luxembourg
Mexico
Netherlands
New Zealand
Norway
Poland
Portugal
Slovakia
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland

Turkey
United Kingdom
United States
(30 countries or areas)
High-income
OECD countries a
Australia
Austria
Belgium
Canada
Denmark
Finland
France
Germany
Greece
Iceland
Ireland
Italy
Japan
Korea, Rep. of
Luxembourg
Netherlands
New Zealand
Norway
Portugal
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
United Kingdom
United States
(24 countries or areas)

a. Excludes the Czech Republic, Hungary, Mexico, Poland, Slovakia and Turkey.

CLASSIFICATION OF COUNTRIES

281

Developing countries in the regional aggregates

Arab States

Asia and the Pacific

Algeria
Bahrain
Djibouti
Egypt
Iraq
Jordan
Kuwait
Lebanon
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
Morocco
Occupied Palestinian Territories
Oman
Qatar
Saudi Arabia
Somalia
Sudan
Syrian Arab Republic
Tunisia
United Arab Emirates
Yemen
(20 countries or areas)

East Asia and the Pacific
Brunei Darussalam
Cambodia
China
Fiji
Hong Kong, China (SAR)
Indonesia
Kiribati
Korea, Dem. Rep.
Korea, Rep. of
Lao People’s Dem. Rep.
Malaysia
Marshall Islands
Micronesia, Fed. Sts.
Mongolia
Myanmar
Nauru
Palau
Papua New Guinea
Philippines
Samoa (Western)
Singapore
Solomon Islands
Thailand
Timor-Leste
Tonga
Tuvalu
Vanuatu
Viet Nam
(28 countries or areas)
South Asia
Afghanistan
Bangladesh
Bhutan
India
Iran, Islamic Rep. of
Maldives
Nepal
Pakistan
Sri Lanka
(9 countries or areas)

282

Latin America and
the Caribbean
Antigua and Barbuda
Argentina
Bahamas
Barbados
Belize
Bolivia
Brazil
Chile
Colombia
Costa Rica
Cuba
Dominica
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
El Salvador
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Haiti
Honduras
Jamaica
Mexico
Nicaragua
Panama
Paraguay
Peru
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
St. Vincent & the Grenadines
Suriname
Trinidad and Tobago
Uruguay
Venezuela
(33 countries or areas)

Southern Europe

Sub-Saharan Africa

Cyprus
Turkey
(2 countries or areas)

Angola
Benin
Botswana
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cameroon
Cape Verde
Central African Republic
Chad
Comoros
Congo
Congo, Dem. Rep. of the
Côte d’Ivoire
Equatorial Guinea
Eritrea
Ethiopia
Gabon
Gambia
Ghana
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Kenya
Lesotho
Liberia
Madagascar
Malawi
Mali
Mauritania
Mauritius
Mozambique
Namibia
Niger
Nigeria
Rwanda
São Tomé and Principe
Senegal
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
South Africa
Swaziland
Tanzania, U. Rep. of
Togo
Uganda
Zambia
Zimbabwe
(45 countries or areas)

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

INDEX TO INDICATORS

Indicator

Indicator
tables

A
Agriculture, OECD country support to domestic
Armed forces
index
total
Arms transfers, conventional
exports
share
total
imports, total

17
22
22

22
22
22

B
Births attended by skilled health personnel
Birthweight, infants with low

6
7

C
Carbon dioxide emissions
per capita
share of world total
Cellular subscribers
Children reaching grade 5
Condom use rate, at last high-risk sex
Consumer price index, average annual change in
Contraceptive prevalence
Contributing family workers
men
women
Crime, people victimized by
assault
bribery (corruption)
property crime
robbery
sexual assault
total crime

21
21
12
11
8
13
6
27
27
23
23
23
23
23
23

D
Debt relief
bilateral pledges to the HIPC trust fund
debt forgiveness, gross bilateral
Debt service, total
as % of exports of goods and services
as % of GDP
Drugs, affordable essential, population with
sustainable access to

INDEX TO INDICATORS

as % of male rate
index
Education expenditure, public
% of GDP
% of total government expenditure
pre-primary and primary
secondary
tertiary
Education index
Electricity consumption per capita
Employment by economic activity, female
agriculture
total
as % of male rate
industry
total
as % of male rate
services
total
as % of male rate
Energy use, GDP per unit of
Enrolment ratio, gross
combined primary, secondary and tertiary
female
male
tertiary
female ratio
ratio of female to male
Enrolment ratio, net
primary
female ratio
ratio of female to male
secondary
female ratio
ratio of female to male
Environmental treaties, ratification of
Exports
high-technology
of goods and services
manufactured
primary

17
17

F

18
18, 19

Fertility rate, total
Foreign direct investment, net inflows of
Fuel consumption, traditional

6

E
Earned income, estimated
female
male
ratio of female to male
Economic activity rate, female

Indicator

24
24
25
27

Indicator
tables
27
27
10, 19
10
10
10
10
1
21

27
27
27
27
27
27
21
1, 33
24
24
26
26
11, 33
26
26
11
26
26
21
15
15
15
15

5, 33
18
21

G
GDP index
GDP per capita
annual growth rate
in US$
in PPP US$
highest value during 1975-2002
year of highest value

1
13
13
1, 13, 33
13
13
283

INDEX TO INDICATORS

Indicator
GDP, total
in PPP US$ billions
in US$ billions
Gender empowerment measure (GEM)
Gender-related development index (GDI)

Indicator
tables

13
13
25, 32
24, 32

H
Health expenditure
per capita
private
public
HIV prevalence
Human development index (HDI)
trends in
Human poverty index (HPI-1) for developing countries
Human poverty index (HPI-2) for selected OECD countries
Human rights instruments, status of major international

6
6
6, 19
8, 33
1
2, 32
3, 32
4, 32
30

I
Illiteracy rate, adult
Immunization of one-year-olds
against measles
against tuberculosis
Imports of goods and services
Income inequality measures
Gini index
income ratio, richest 10% to poorest 10%
income ratio, richest 20% to poorest 20%
Income or consumption, share of
poorest 10%
poorest 20%
richest 10%
richest 20%
Infant mortality rate
Internally displaced people
Internet users

3
6
6
15
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
9
22
12

L
Labour rights conventions, status of fundamental
Life expectancy at birth
female
male
Life expectancy index
Literacy rate, adult
female
female as % of male
male
Literacy rate, youth
female
female as % of male
Literacy skills, functional, people lacking

284

31
1, 9, 33
24
24
1
1, 11, 33
24, 26
26
24
11
26
26
4

Indicator
tables

Indicator

M
Malaria
cases
prevention, children under five with
insecticide-treated bed nets
treatment, children under five with fever
treated with anti-malarial drugs
Maternal mortality ratio
adjusted
reported
Military expenditure

8
8
8
9
9
19

O
Official development assistance (ODA) disbursed, net
as % of GNI
per capita of donor country
to basic social services
to least developed countries
total
untied bilateral
Official development assistance (ODA) received
(net disbursements)
as % of GDP
per capita
total
Oral rehydration therapy use rate

16
16
16
16
16
16

18
18
18
6

P
Patents granted to residents
Physicians
Population
ages 65 and above
annual growth rate
total
under age 15
urban
Poverty, income
population living below $1 a day
population living below $2 a day
population living below $4 a day
population living below $11 a day
population living below 50% of median income
population living below national poverty line
Private flows, other

12
6
5
5
5, 33
5
5
3
3
4
4
4
3
18

R
Refugees
by country of asylum
by country of origin
Research and development (R&D)
expenditures
researchers in
Royalties and licence fees, receipts of

22
22
12
12
12

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2004

INDEX TO INDICATORS

Indicator

Indicator
tables

S
Sanitation facilities, population with access to improved
Science, math and engineering, tertiary students in
Smoking, prevalence of
men
women
Survival
probability at birth of not surviving to age 40
probability at birth of not surviving to age 60
probability at birth of surviving to age 65
female
male

7
11
8
8
3
4
9
9

T
Telephone mainlines
Trade
goods imported by developed countries
from developing countries
share of total imports
total
from least developed countries
share of total imports
total
tariff barriers, average and non-tariff equivalents
terms of
Tuberculosis cases
cured under DOTS
detected under DOTS
per 100,000 people

12

17
17
17
17
17
15
8
8
8

U
Under-five mortality rate
Under height for age, children under age five
Undernourished people
Under weight for age, children under age five
Unemployment

INDEX TO INDICATORS

9, 33
7
7, 33
3, 7
20

Indicator
Unemployment, long-term
men
women
Unemployment rate
average annual
female % of male
youth
female % of male

Indicator
tables
4
20
20
20
20
20
20
20

W
Water source, improved
population without sustainable access to
population with sustainable access to
Women’s economic participation
female legislators, senior officials and managers
female professional and technical workers
Women’s political participation
female legislators, senior officials and managers
seats in parliament held by women
lower or single house
upper house or senate
women in government at ministerial level
year first woman elected or appointed to parliament
year women received right to stand for election
year women received right to vote
Work time
men
market activities
non-market activities
total
total
market activities
non-market activities
women
as % of male
market activities
non-market activities
total

3
7, 33
25
25
25
25
29
29
29
29
29
29

28
28
28
28
28
28
28
28
28

285

