SCIENCE | AGRICULTURE | CURRENT AFFAIRS
IAASTD

“Although considered by many to be a success story, the benefits of productivity increases in
world agriculture are unevenly spread. Often the poorest of the poor have gained little or nothing; and 850 million people are still hungry or malnourished with an additional 4 million more
joining their ranks annually. We are putting food that appears cheap on our tables; but it is
food that is not always healthy and that costs us dearly in terms of water, soil and the biological
diversity on which all our futures depend.”
—Professor Bob Watson, director, IAASTD

The International Assessment of Agricultural Knowledge, Science and Technology for Development (IAASTD) , on which Agriculture at the Crossroads is based, was a three-year collaborative effort begun in 2005 that assessed our capacity to meet development and sustainability goals of:

Agriculture
at a
Crossroads
International Assessment of Agricultural Knowledge,
Science and Technology for Development

• Reducing hunger and poverty
• Improving nutrition, health and rural livelihoods
• Facilitating social and environmental sustainability

In addition to assessing existing conditions and knowledge, the IAASTD uses a simple set of
model projections to look at the future, based on knowledge from past events and existing
trends such as population growth, rural/urban food and poverty dynamics, loss of agricultural
land, water availability, and climate change effects.
This set of volumes comprises the findings of the IAASTD. It consists of a Global Report, a
brief Synthesis Report, and 5 subglobal reports. Taken as a whole, the IAASTD reports are an
indispensable reference for anyone working in the field of agriculture and rural development,
whether at the level of basic research, policy, or practice.
Cover design by Linda McKnight, McKnight Design, LLC
Cover photos (left to right): Steve Raymer, Dean Conger, and
William Albert Allard of National Geographic Stock, Mark Edwards (both images) of Peter Arnold, Inc.

Washington • Covelo • London
www.islandpress.org
All Island Press books are printed on recycled, acid-free paper.

Synthesis Report

Governed by a multi-stakeholder bureau comprised of 30 representatives from government
and 30 from civil society, the process brought together 110 governments and 400 experts, representing non-governmental organizations (NGOs), the private sector, producers, consumers,
the scientific community, multilateral environment agreements (MEAs), and multiple international agencies involved in the agricultural and rural development sectors.

Synthesis Report

IAASTD
International Assessment of Agricultural Knowledge, Science
and Technology for Development

Synthesis Report

00-fm SR.indd 1

11/3/08 12:05:37 PM

00-fm SR.indd 2

11/3/08 12:05:49 PM

IAASTD
International Assessment of Agricultural Knowledge, Science
and Technology for Development

Synthesis Report
A Synthesis of the Global and Sub-Global IAASTD Reports

Edited by
Beverly D. McIntyre	

Hans R. Herren 	

Judi Wakhungu	

Robert T. Watson

IAASTD Secretariat	

Millennium Institute	

African Centre for 	
Technology Studies	

University of East Anglia

	

00-fm SR.indd 3

11/3/08 12:05:49 PM

Copyright © 2009 IAASTD. All rights reserved. Permission to
reproduce and disseminate portions of the work for no cost will be
granted free of charge by Island Press upon request: Island Press, 1718
Connecticut Avenue, NW, Suite 300, Washington, DC 20009.
Island Press is a trademark of The Center for Resource Economics.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication data.
International assessment of agricultural knowledge, science and
technology for development (IAASTD) : synthesis report with executive
summary : a synthesis of the global and sub-global IAASTD reports /
edited by Beverly D. McIntyre . . . [et al.].
   p.   cm.
  Includes bibliographical references.
  ISBN 978-1-59726-550-8 (pbk. : alk. paper)
  1. Agriculture—International cooperation. 2. Sustainable
development. I. McIntyre, Beverly D. II. Title: Synthesis report with
executive summary : a synthesis of the global and sub-global IAASTD
reports.
  HD1428.I547 2008
  338.9´27—dc22      2008046049
British Cataloguing-in-Publication data available.
Printed on recycled, acid-free paper
Interior and cover designs by Linda McKnight, McKnight Design, LLC.
Manufactured in the United States of America
10  9  8  7  6  5  4  3  2  1

00-fm SR.indd 4

12/2/08 5:15:21 PM

Contents

vi Foreword
vii Preface

1 Executive Summary of Synthesis Report
2 Statement by Governments
3 Executive Summary
12 Annex. Reservations on Executive Summary
13 Synthesis Report
15 Statement by Governments on Synthesis Report
17 Part I: Current Conditions, Challenges and Options for Action
35 Part II: Themes
35 Bioenergy
40 Biotechnology
46 Climate Change
53 Human Health
59 Natural Resources Management
65 Trade and Markets
71 Traditional and Local Knowledge and Community-based Innovations
75 Women in Agriculture
81 Annex A	 Reservations on Synthesis Report
82 Annex B	 Authors and Review Editors of Global and Sub-Global Reports
89 Annex C	 Peer Reviewers
92 Annex D	 Secretariat and Cosponsor Focal Points
93 Annex E	

00-fm SR.indd 5

Steering Committee for Consultative Process and Advisory Bureau for Assessment

11/10/08 1:52:28 PM

Foreword

The objective of the International Assessment of Agricultural Knowledge, Science and Technology for Development
(IAASTD) was to assess the impacts of past, present and
future agricultural knowledge, science and technology on
the:
•	 reduction of hunger and poverty,
•	 improvement of rural livelihoods and human health,
and
•	 equitable, socially, environmentally and economically
sustainable development.
The IAASTD was initiated in 2002 by the World Bank and
the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) as a global consultative process to determine
whether an international assessment of agricultural knowledge, science and technology was needed. Mr. Klaus Töepfer,
Executive Director of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) opened the first Intergovernmental Plenary
(30 August-3 September 2004) in Nairobi, Kenya, during
which participants initiated a detailed scoping, preparation,
drafting and peer review process.
The outputs from this assessment are a Global and five
Sub-Global reports; a Global and five Sub-Global Summaries for Decision Makers; and a cross-cutting Synthesis
Report with an Executive Summary. The Summaries for Decision Makers and the Synthesis Report specifically provide
options for action to governments, international agencies,
academia, research organizations and other decision makers
around the world.
The reports draw on the work of hundreds of experts
from all regions of the world who have participated in the
preparation and peer review process. As has been customary
in many such global assessments, success depended first and
foremost on the dedication, enthusiasm and cooperation of
these experts in many different but related disciplines. It is
the synergy of these interrelated disciplines that permitted
IAASTD to create a unique, interdisciplinary regional and
global process.
We take this opportunity to express our deep gratitude
to the authors and reviewers of all of the reports—their
dedication and tireless efforts made the process a success.
We thank the Steering Committee for distilling the outputs
of the consultative process into recommendations to the
Plenary, the IAASTD Bureau for their advisory role during
the assessment and the work of those in the extended Sec-

retariat. We would specifically like to thank the cosponsoring organizations of the Global Environment Facility (GEF)
and the World Bank for their financial contributions as well
as the FAO, UNEP, and the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) for their
continued support of this process through allocation of staff
resources.
We acknowledge with gratitude the governments and
organizations that contributed to the Multidonor Trust
Fund (Australia, Canada, the European Commission,
France, Ireland, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom) and the United States Trust Fund. We also thank the
governments who provided support to Bureau members,
authors and reviewers in other ways. In addition, Finland
provided direct support to the Secretariat. The IAASTD was
especially successful in engaging a large number of experts
from developing countries and countries with economies in
transition in its work; the Trust Funds enabled financial assistance for their travel to the IAASTD meetings.
We would also like to make special mention of the Regional Organizations who hosted the regional coordinators
and staff and provided assistance in management and time
to ensure success of this enterprise: the African Center for
Technology Studies (ACTS) in Kenya, the Inter-American
Institute for Cooperation on Agriculture (IICA) in Costa
Rica, the International Center for Agricultural Research in
the Dry Areas (ICARDA) in Syria, and the WorldFish Center
in Malaysia.
The final Intergovernmental Plenary in Johannesburg,
South Africa was opened on 7 April 2008 by Achim Steiner,
Executive Director of UNEP. This Plenary saw the acceptance of the Reports and the approval of the Summaries for
Decision Makers and the Executive Summary of the Synthesis Report by an overwhelming majority of governments.
Signed:
Co-chairs
Hans H. Herren
Judi Wakhungu
Director
Robert T. Watson

vi

00-fm SR.indd 6

11/3/08 12:05:50 PM

Preface

In August 2002, the World Bank and the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations initiated
a global consultative process to determine whether an international assessment of agricultural knowledge, science
and technology (AKST) was needed. This was stimulated
by discussions at the World Bank with the private sector
and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) on the state of
scientific understanding of biotechnology and more specifically transgenics. During 2003, eleven consultations were
held, overseen by an international multistakeholder steering committee and involving over 800 participants from all
relevant stakeholder groups, e.g., governments, the private
sector and civil society. Based on these consultations the
steering committee recommended to an Intergovernmental
Plenary meeting in Nairobi in September 2004 that an international assessment of the role of AKST in reducing hunger and poverty, improving rural livelihoods and facilitating
environmentally, socially and economically sustainable
development was needed. The concept of an International
Assessment of Agricultural Knowledge, Science and Technology for Development (IAASTD) was endorsed as a multithematic, multi-spatial, multi-temporal intergovernmental
process with a multistakeholder Bureau cosponsored by the
FAO, the Global Environment Facility (GEF), United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), United Nations
Environment Programme (UNEP), United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), the
World Bank and World Health Organization (WHO).
The IAASTD’s governance structure is a unique hybrid
of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)
and the nongovernmental Millennium Ecosystem Assessment (MA). The stakeholder composition of the Bureau was
agreed at the Intergovernmental Plenary meeting in Nairobi;
it is geographically balanced and multistakeholder with 30
government and 30 civil society representatives (NGOs,
producer and consumer groups, private sector entities and
international organizations) in order to ensure ownership of
the process and findings by a range of stakeholders.
About 400 of the world’s experts were selected by the
Bureau, following nominations by stakeholder groups, to
prepare the IAASTD Report (comprised of a Global and
five Sub-Global assessments). These experts worked in their
own capacity and did not represent any particular stakeholder group. Additional individuals, organizations and
governments were involved in the peer review process.
The IAASTD development and sustainability goals
were endorsed at the first Intergovernmental Plenary and
are consistent with a subset of the UN Millennium Develop-

ment Goals (MDGs): the reduction of hunger and poverty,
the improvement of rural livelihoods and human health, and
facilitating equitable, socially, environmentally and economically sustainable development. Realizing these goals requires
acknowledging the multifunctionality of agriculture: the
challenge is to simultaneously meet development and sustainability goals while increasing agricultural production.
Meeting these goals has to be placed in the context of a
rapidly changing world of urbanization, growing inequities,
human migration, globalization, changing dietary preferences, climate change, environmental degradation, a trend
toward biofuels and an increasing population. These conditions are affecting local and global food security and putting pressure on productive capacity and ecosystems. Hence
there are unprecedented challenges ahead in providing food
within a global trading system where there are other competing uses for agricultural and other natural resources.
AKST alone cannot solve these problems, which are caused
by complex political and social dynamics, but it can make
a major contribution to meeting development and sustainability goals. Never before has it been more important for
the world to generate and use AKST.
Given the focus on hunger, poverty and livelihoods,
the IAASTD pays special attention to the current situation,
issues and potential opportunities to redirect the current
AKST system to improve the situation for poor rural people, especially small-scale farmers, rural laborers and others
with limited resources. It addresses issues critical to formulating policy and provides information for decision makers
confronting conflicting views on contentious issues such as
the environmental consequences of productivity increases,
environmental and human health impacts of transgenic
crops, the consequences of bioenergy development on the
environment and on the long-term availability and price of
food, and the implications of climate change on agricultural
production. The Bureau agreed that the scope of the assessment needed to go beyond the narrow confines of science
and technology (S&T) and should encompass other types
of relevant knowledge (e.g., knowledge held by agricultural
producers, consumers and end users) and that it should also
assess the role of institutions, organizations, governance,
markets and trade.
The IAASTD is a multidisciplinary and multistakeholder
enterprise requiring the use and integration of information,
tools and models from different knowledge paradigms including local and traditional knowledge. The IAASTD does
not advocate specific policies or practices; it assesses the major issues facing AKST and points towards a range of AKST
vii

00-fm SR.indd 7

11/3/08 12:05:50 PM

options for action that meet development and sustainability
goals. It is policy relevant, but not policy prescriptive. It
integrates scientific information on a range of topics that
are critically interlinked, but often addressed independently,
i.e., agriculture, poverty, hunger, human health, natural resources, environment, development and innovation. It will
enable decision makers to bring a richer base of knowledge
to bear on policy and management decisions on issues previously viewed in isolation. Knowledge gained from historical
analysis (typically the past 50 years) and an analysis of some
future development alternatives to 2050 form the basis for assessing options for action on science and technology, capacity
development, institutions and policies, and investments.
The IAASTD is conducted according to an open, transparent, representative and legitimate process; is evidencebased; presents options rather than recommendations;
assesses different local, regional and global perspectives;
presents different views, acknowledging that there can be
more than one interpretation of the same evidence based
on different worldviews; and identifies the key scientific uncertainties and areas on which research could be focused to
advance development and sustainability goals.
The IAASTD is composed of a Global assessment and
five Sub-Global assessments: Central and West Asia and
North Africa (CWANA); East and South Asia and the Pacific (ESAP); Latin America and the Caribbean (LAC);
North America and Europe (NAE); Sub-Saharan Africa
(SSA). It (1) assesses the generation, access, dissemination
and use of public and private sector AKST in relation to
the goals, using local, traditional and formal knowledge;
(2) analyzes existing and emerging technologies, practices,
policies and institutions and their impact on the goals; (3)
provides information for decision makers in different civil
society, private and public organizations on options for improving policies, practices, institutional and organizational
arrangements to enable AKST to meet the goals; (4) brings
together a range of stakeholders (consumers, governments,
international agencies and research organizations, NGOs,
private sector, producers, the scientific community) involved
in the agricultural sector and rural development to share
their experiences, views, understanding and vision for the
future; and (5) identifies options for future public and private investments in AKST. In addition, the IAASTD will enhance local and regional capacity to design, implement and
utilize similar assessments.
In this assessment agriculture is used to include production of food, feed, fuel, fiber and other products and to include all sectors from production of inputs (e.g., seeds and
fertilizer) to consumption of products. However, as in all
assessments, some topics were covered less extensively than
others (e.g., livestock, forestry, fisheries and the agricultural
sector of small island countries, and agricultural engineering), largely due to the expertise of the selected authors.
Originally the Bureau approved a chapter on plausible futures (a visioning exercise), but later there was agreement
to delete this chapter in favor of a more simple set of model
projections. Similarly the Bureau approved a chapter on capacity development, but this chapter was dropped and key
messages integrated into other chapters.
The IAASTD draft Report was subjected to two rounds
of peer review by governments, organizations and individu-

als. These drafts were placed on an open access web site
and open to comments by anyone. The authors revised the
drafts based on numerous peer review comments, with the
assistance of review editors who were responsible for ensuring the comments were appropriately taken into account.
One of the most difficult issues authors had to address was
criticisms that the report was too negative. In a scientific
review based on empirical evidence, this is always a difficult
comment to handle, as criteria are needed in order to say
whether something is negative or positive. Another difficulty
was responding to the conflicting views expressed by reviewers. The difference in views was not surprising given the
range of stakeholder interests and perspectives. Thus one of
the key findings of the IAASTD is that there are diverse and
conflicting interpretations of past and current events, which
need to be acknowledged and respected.
The Global and Sub-Global Summaries for Decision
Makers and the Executive Summary of the Synthesis Report
were approved at an Intergovernmental Plenary in April
2008. The Synthesis Report integrates the key findings from
the Global and Sub-Global assessments, and focuses on eight
Bureau-approved topics: bioenergy; biotechnology; climate
change; human health; natural resource management; traditional knowledge and community based innovation; trade
and markets; and women in agriculture.
The IAASTD builds on and adds value to a number of
recent assessments and reports that have provided valuable
information relevant to the agricultural sector, but have not
specifically focused on the future role of AKST, the institutional dimensions and the multifunctionality of agriculture.
These include: FAO State of Food Insecurity in the World
(yearly); InterAcademy Council Report: Realizing the Promise and Potential of African Agriculture (2004); UN Millennium Project Task Force on Hunger (2005); Millennium
Ecosystem Assessment (2005); CGIAR Science Council
Strategy and Priority Setting Exercise (2006); Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture: Guiding Policy Investments in Water, Food, Livelihoods and
Environment (2007); Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change Reports (2001 and 2007); UNEP Fourth Global
Environmental Outlook (2007); World Bank World Development Report: Agriculture for Development (2008); IFPRI
Global Hunger Indices (yearly); and World Bank Internal
Report of Investments in SSA (2007).
Financial support was provided to the IAASTD by
the cosponsoring agencies, the governments of Australia,
Canada, Finland, France, Ireland, Sweden, Switzerland, US
and UK, and the European Commission. In addition, many
organizations have provided in-kind support. The authors
and review editors have given freely of their time, largely
without compensation.
The Global and Sub-Global Summaries for Decision
Makers and the Synthesis Report are written for a range of
stakeholders, i.e., government policy makers, private sector,
NGOs, producer and consumer groups, international organizations and the scientific community. There are no recommendations, only options for action. The options for action
are not prioritized because different options are actionable
by different stakeholders, each of whom have a different
set of priorities and responsibilities and operate in different
socioeconomic and political circumstances.

viii

00-fm SR.indd 8

11/3/08 12:05:50 PM

Executive Summary of the Synthesis Report

Writing team: Tsedeke Abate (Ethiopia), Jean Albergel (France),
Inge Armbrecht (Colombia), Patrick Avato (Germany/Italy),
Satinder Bajaj (India), Nienke Beintema (the Netherlands),
Rym Ben Zid (Tunisia), Rodney Brown (USA), Lorna M. Butler
(Canada), Fabrice Dreyfus (France), Kristie L. Ebi (USA),
Shelley Feldman (USA), Alia Gana (Tunisia), Tirso Gonzales
(Peru), Ameenah Gurib-Fakim (Mauritius), Jack Heinemann
(New Zealand), Thora Herrmann (Germany), Angelika Hilbeck
(Switzerland), Hans Hurni (Switzerland), Sophia Huyer (Canada),
Janice Jiggins (UK), Joan Kagwanja (Kenya), Moses Kairo
(Kenya), Rose R. Kingamkono (Tanzania), Gordana KranjacBerisavljevic (Ghana), Kawther Latiri (Tunisia), Roger Leakey
(Australia), Marianne Lefort (France), Karen Lock (UK), Thora
Herrmann (Germany), Yalem Mekonnen (Ethiopia), Douglas
Murray (USA), Dev Nathan (India), Lindela Ndlovu (Zimbabwe),
Balgis Osman-Elasha (Sudan), Ivette Perfecto (Puerto Rico),
Cristina Plencovich (Argentina), Rajeswari Raina (India),
Elizabeth Robinson (UK), Niels Roling (Netherlands), Mark
Rosegrant (USA), Erika Rosenthal (USA), Wahida Patwa Shah
(Kenya), John M.R. Stone (Canada), Abid Suleri (Pakistan),
Hong Yang (Australia)

1

01-SR.indd 1

11/3/08 12:07:26 PM

Statement by Governments on Executive Summary

All countries present at the final intergovernmental plenary
session held in Johannesburg, South Africa in April 2008
welcome the work of the IAASTD and the uniqueness of
this independent multistakeholder and multidisciplinary
process, and the scale of the challenge of covering a broad
range of complex issues. The Governments present recognize that the Global and Sub-Global Reports are the conclusions of studies by a wide range of scientific authors, experts
and development specialists and while presenting an overall
consensus on the importance of agricultural knowledge, science and technology for development they also provide a
diversity of views on some issues.
All countries see these Reports as a valuable and important contribution to our understanding on agricultural
knowledge, science and technology for development recognizing the need to further deepen our understanding of the
challenges ahead. This Assessment is a constructive initiative and important contribution that all governments need
to take forward to ensure that agricultural knowledge, science and technology fulfils its potential to meet the development and sustainability goals of the reduction of hunger and
poverty, the improvement of rural livelihoods and human
health, and facilitating equitable, socially, environmentally
and economically sustainable development.
In accordance with the above statement, the following

governments approve the Executive Summary of the Synthesis Report.
Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belize,
Benin, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, Cameroon, People’s
Republic of China, Costa Rica, Cuba, Democratic Republic of Congo, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Ethiopia,
Finland, France, Gambia, Ghana, Honduras, India, Iran,
Ireland, Kenya, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Maldives,
Republic of Moldova, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria,
Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Philippines, Poland, Republic of Palau, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Solomon
Islands, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, United Republic
of Tanzania, Timor-Leste, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda,
United Kingdom of Great Britain, Uruguay, Viet Nam,
Zambia (58 countries).
While approving the above statement the following
governments did not fully approve the Executive Summary
of the Synthesis Report and their reservations are entered in
the Annex to the Executive Summary.
Australia, Canada, United States of America (3
countries).

2

01-SR.indd 2

11/3/08 12:07:27 PM

Executive Summary of the Synthesis Report of the
International Assessment of Agricultural Knowledge, Science and
Technology for Development (IAASTD)
This Synthesis Report captures the complexity and diversity of
agriculture and agricultural knowledge, science and technology (AKST) across world regions. It is built upon the Global
and five Sub-Global reports that provide evidence for the integrated analysis of the main concerns necessary to achieve
development and sustainability goals. It is organized in two
parts that address the primary animating question: how can
AKST be used to reduce hunger and poverty, improve rural
livelihoods, and facilitate equitable environmentally, socially,
and economically sustainable development? In the first part
we identify the current conditions, challenges and options
for action that shape AKST, while in the second part we
focus on eight cross-cutting themes. The eight cross-cutting
themes include: bioenergy, biotechnology, climate change,
human health, natural resource management, trade and
markets, traditional and local knowledge and communitybased innovation, and women in agriculture.
The International Assessment of Agricultural Knowledge, Science and Technology for Development (IAASTD)
responds to the widespread realization that despite significant scientific and technological achievements in our ability
to increase agricultural productivity, we have been less attentive to some of the unintended social and environmental
consequences of our achievements. We are now in a good
position to reflect on these consequences and to outline various policy options to meet the challenges ahead, perhaps
best characterized as the need for food and livelihood security under increasingly constrained environmental conditions from within and outside the realm of agriculture and
globalized economic systems.
This widespread realization is linked directly to the
goals of the IAASTD: how AKST can be used to reduce
hunger and poverty, to improve rural livelihoods and to facilitate equitable environmentally, socially and economically
sustainable development. Under the rubric of IAASTD, we
recognize the importance of AKST to the multifunctionality
of agriculture and the intersection with other local to global
concerns, including loss of biodiversity and ecosystem services, climate change and water availability.
The IAASTD is unique in the history of agricultural science assessments in that it assesses both formal science and
technology (S&T) and local and traditional knowledge, addresses not only production and productivity but the multifunctionality of agriculture, and recognizes that multiple
perspectives exist on the role and nature of AKST. For many
years, agricultural science focused on delivering component
technologies to increase farm-level productivity where the
market and institutional arrangements put in place by the

state were the primary drivers of the adoption of new technologies. The general model has been to continuously innovate, reduce farm gate prices and externalize costs. This
model drove the phenomenal achievements of AKST in
industrial countries after World War II and the spread of
the Green Revolution beginning in the 1960s. But, given
the new challenges we confront today, there is increasing
recognition within formal S&T organizations that the current AKST model requires revision. Business as usual is no
longer an option. This leads to rethinking the role of AKST
in achieving development and sustainability goals; one that
seeks more intensive engagement across diverse worldviews
and possibly contradictory approaches in ways that can inform and suggest strategies for actions enabling the multiple
functions of agriculture.
In order to address the diverse needs and interests that
shape human life, we need a shared approach to sustainability with local and cross-national collaboration. We cannot escape our predicament by simply continuing to rely on
the aggregation of individual choices to achieve sustainable
and equitable collective outcomes. Incentives are needed to
influence the choices individuals make. Issues such as poverty and climate change also require collective agreements
on concerted action and governance across scales that go beyond an appeal to individual benefit. At the global, regional,
national and local levels, decision makers must be acutely
conscious of the fact that there are diverse challenges, multiple theoretical frameworks and development models and a
wide range of options to meet development and sustainability goals. Our perception of the challenges and the choices
we make at this juncture in history will determine how we
protect our planet and secure our future.
Development and sustainability goals should be placed
in the context of (1) current social and economic inequities
and political uncertainties about war and conflicts; (2) uncertainties about the ability to sustainably produce and access
sufficient food; (3) uncertainties about the future of world
food prices; (4) changes in the economics of fossil-based energy use; (5) the emergence of new competitors for natural
resources; (6) increasing chronic diseases that are partially a
consequence of poor nutrition and poor food quality as well
as food safety; and (7) changing environmental conditions
and the growing awareness of human responsibility for the
maintenance of global ecosystem services (provisioning,
regulating, cultural and supporting).
Today there is a world of asymmetric development, unsustainable natural resource use, and continued rural and
urban poverty. Generally the adverse consequences of global
3

01-SR.indd 3

11/3/08 12:07:27 PM

4 | IAASTD Synthesis Report

changes have the most significant effects on the poorest and
most vulnerable, who historically have had limited entitlements and opportunities for growth.
The pace of formal technology generation and adoption
has been highly uneven. Actors within North America and
Europe (NAE) and emerging economies who have captured
significant economies of scale through formal AKST will continue to dominate agricultural exports and extended value
chains. There is an urgent need to diversify and strengthen
AKST, recognizing differences in agroecologies and social
and cultural conditions. The need to retool AKST, to reduce
poverty and provide improved livelihoods options for the
rural poor, especially landless and peasant communities, urban, informal and migrant workers, is a major challenge.
There is an overarching concern in all regions regarding
poverty alleviation and the livelihoods options available to
poor people who are faced with intra- and inter-regional
inequalities. There is recognition that the mounting crisis
in food security is of a different complexity and potentially
different magnitude than the one of the 1960s. The ability
and willingness of different actors, including those in the
state, civil society and private sector, to address fundamental questions of relationships among production, social and
environmental systems is affected by contentious political
and economic stances.
The acknowledgment of current challenges and the acceptance of options available for action require a long-term
commitment from decision makers that is responsive to the
specific needs of a wide range of stakeholders. A recognition that knowledge systems and human ingenuity in science, technology, practice and policy is needed to meet the
challenges, opportunities and uncertainties ahead. This recognition will require a shift to nonhierarchical development
models.
The main challenge of AKST is to increase the productivity of agriculture in a sustainable manner. AKST must
address the needs of small-scale farms in diverse ecosystems
and create realistic opportunities for their development
where the potential for improved area productivity is low
and where climate change may have its most adverse consequences. The main challenges for AKST posed by multifunctional agricultural systems include:
•	 How to improve social welfare and personal livelihoods
in the rural sector and enhance multiplier effects of
agriculture?
•	 How to empower marginalized stakeholders to sustain
the diversity of agriculture and food systems, including
their cultural dimensions?
•	 How to provide safe water, maintain biodiversity, sustain the natural resource base and minimize the adverse
impacts of agricultural activities on people and the
environment?
•	 How to maintain and enhance environmental and cultural services while increasing sustainable productivity
and diversity of food, fiber and biofuel production?
•	 How to manage effectively the collaborative generation
of knowledge among increasingly heterogeneous contributors and the flow of information among diverse
public and private AKST organizational arrangements?
•	 How to link the outputs from marginalized, rain fed
lands into local, national and global markets?

01-SR.indd 4

Multifunctionality
The term multifunctionality has sometimes been interpreted
as having implications for trade and protectionism. This is
not the definition used here. In IAASTD, multifunctionality is
used solely to express the inescapable interconnectedness
of agriculture’s different roles and functions. The concept of
multifunctionality recognizes agriculture as a multi-output
activity producing not only commodities (food, feed, fibers,
agrofuels, medicinal products and ornamentals), but also noncommodity outputs such as environmental services, landscape amenities and cultural heritages.
The working definition proposed by OECD, which is used
by the IAASTD, associates multifunctionality with the particular characteristics of the agricultural production process and
its outputs; (1) multiple commodity and non-commodity outputs are jointly produced by agriculture; and (2) some of the
non-commodity outputs may exhibit the characteristics of externalities or public goods, such that markets for these goods
function poorly or are nonexistent.
The use of the term has been controversial and contested
in global trade negotiations, and it has centered on whether
“trade-distorting” agricultural subsidies are needed for agriculture to perform its many functions. Proponents argue that
current patterns of agricultural subsidies, international trade
and related policy frameworks do not stimulate transitions
toward equitable agricultural and food trade relation or sustainable food and farming systems and have given rise to perverse impacts on natural resources and agroecologies as well
as on human health and nutrition. Opponents argue that attempts to remedy these outcomes by means of trade-related
instruments will weaken the efficiency of agricultural trade and
lead to further undesirable market distortion; their preferred
approach is to address the externalized costs and negative
impacts on poverty, the environment, human health and nutrition by other means.

Options for Action
Successfully meeting development and sustainability goals
and responding to new priorities and changing circumstances
would require a fundamental shift in AKST, including science, technology, policies, institutions, capacity development
and investment. Such a shift would recognize and give increased importance to the multifunctionality of agriculture,
accounting for the complexity of agricultural systems within
diverse social and ecological contexts. It would require new
institutional and organizational arrangements to promote
an integrated approach to the development and deployment
of AKST. It would also recognize farming communities,
farm households, and farmers as producers and managers
of ecosystems. This shift may call for changing the incentive
systems for all actors along the value chain to internalize as
many externalities as possible. In terms of development and
sustainability goals, these policies and institutional changes
should be directed primarily at those who have been served

11/3/08 12:07:27 PM

Executive Summary of the Synthesis Report | 5

least by previous AKST approaches, i.e., resource-poor farmers, women and ethnic minorities.1 Such development would
depend also on the extent to which small-scale farmers can
find gainful off-farm employment and help fuel general economic growth. Large and middle-size farmers continue to
be important and high pay-off targets of AKST, especially in
the area of sustainable land use and food systems.
It will be important to assess the potential environmental, health and social impacts of any technology, and to
implement the appropriate regulatory frameworks. AKST
can contribute to radically improving food security and enhancing the social and economic performance of agricultural systems as a basis for sustainable rural and community
livelihoods and wider economic development. It can help to
rehabilitate degraded land, reduce environmental and health
risks associated with food production and consumption and
sustainably increase production.
Success would require increased public and private
investment in AKST, the development of supporting policies and institutions, revalorization of traditional and local
knowledge, and an interdisciplinary, holistic and systemsbased approach to knowledge production and sharing.
Success also depends on the extent to which international
developments and events drive the priority given to development and sustainability goals and the extent to which requisite funding and qualified staff are available.
Poverty and livelihoods
Important options for enhancing rural livelihoods include
increasing access by small-scale farmers to land and economic resources and to remunerative local urban and export
markets; and increasing local value added and value captured by small-scale farmers and rural laborers. A powerful tool for meeting development and sustainability goals
resides in empowering farmers to innovatively manage soils,
water, biological resources, pests, disease vectors, genetic diversity, and conserve natural resources in a culturally appropriate manner. Combining farmers’ and external knowledge
would require new partnerships among farmers, scientists
and other stakeholders.
Policy options for improving livelihoods include access
to microcredit and other financial services; legal frameworks
that ensure access and tenure to resources and land; recourse to fair conflict resolution; and progressive evolution
and proactive engagement in intellectual property rights
(IPR) regimes and related instruments.2 Developments are
needed that build trust and that value farmer knowledge,
agricultural and natural biodiversity; farmer-managed medicinal plants, local seed systems and common pool resource
management regimes. Each of these options, when implemented locally, depends on regional and nationally based
mechanisms to ensure accountability. The suite of options
to increase domestic farm gate prices for small-scale farmers
includes fiscal and competition policies; improved access to
AKST; novel business approaches; and enhanced political
power.

1
2

01-SR.indd 5

Botswana.
USA.

Food security [is] a situation that exists when all people, at
all times, have physical, social and economic access to sufficient, safe and nutritious food that meets their dietary needs
and food preferences for an active and healthy life. (FAO, The
State of Food Insecurity, 2001)
Food sovereignty is defined as the right of peoples and sovereign states to democratically determine their own agricultural
and food policies.3

3

UK.

Food security
Food security strategies require a combination of AKST
approaches, including the development of food stock management, effective market intelligence and early warning,
monitoring, and distribution systems. Production measures
create the conditions for food security, but they need to
be looked at in conjunction with people’s access to food
(through own production, exchange and public entitlements)
and their ability to absorb nutrients consumed (through adequate access to water and sanitation, adequate nutrition
and nutritional information) in order to fully achieve food
security.
AKST can increase sustainable agricultural production
by expanding use of local and formal AKST to develop and
deploy suitable cultivars adaptable to site-specific conditions; improving access to resources; improving soil, water
and nutrient management and conservation; pre- and postharvest pest management; and increasing small-scale farm
diversification. Policy options for addressing food security
include developing high-value and underutilized crops in
rain fed areas; increasing the full range of agricultural exports and imports, including organic and fair trade products; reducing transaction costs for small-scale producers;
strengthening local markets; food safety nets; promoting
agro-insurance; and improving food safety and quality. Price
shocks and extreme weather events call for a global system
of monitoring and intervention for the timely prediction of
major food shortages and price-induced hunger.
AKST investments can increase the sustainable productivity of major subsistence foods including orphan and underutilized crops, which are often grown or consumed by
poor people. Investments could also be targeted for institutional change and policies that can improve access of poor
people to food, land, water, seeds, germplasm and improved
technologies.
Environmental sustainability
AKST systems are needed that enhance sustainability while
maintaining productivity in ways that protect the natural
resource base and ecological provisioning of agricultural
systems. Options include improving nutrient, energy, water and land use efficiency; improving the understanding of
soil-plant-water dynamics; increasing farm diversification;

11/3/08 12:07:28 PM

6 | IAASTD Synthesis Report

supporting agroecological systems, and enhancing biodiversity conservation and use at both field and landscape scales;
promoting the sustainable management of livestock, forest
and fisheries; improving understanding of the agroecological functioning of mosaics of crop production areas and
natural habitats; countering the effects of agriculture on climate change and mitigating the negative impacts of climate
change on agriculture.
Policy options include ending subsidies that encourage
unsustainable practices and using market and other mechanisms to regulate and generate rewards for agro/environmental services, for better natural resource management
and enhanced environmental quality. Examples include
incentives to promote integrated pest management (IPM)
and environmentally resilient germplasm management,
payments to farmers and local communities for ecosystem
services, facilitating and providing incentives for alternative
markets such as green products, certification for sustainable
forest and fisheries practices and organic agriculture and the
strengthening of local markets. Long-term land and water
use rights/tenure, risk reduction measures (safety nets, credit,
insurance, etc.) and profitability of recommended technologies are prerequisites for adoption of sustainable practices.
Common pool resource regimes and modes of governance
that emphasize participatory and democratic approaches
are needed.
Investment opportunities in AKST that could improve
sustainability and reduce negative environmental effects
include resource conservation technologies, improved techniques for organic and low-input systems; a wide range of
breeding techniques for temperature and pest tolerance; research on the relationship of agricultural ecosystem services
and human well-being; economic and non-economic valuations of ecosystem services; increasing water use efficiency
and reducing water pollution; biocontrols of current and
emerging pests and pathogens; biological substitutes for
agrochemicals; and reducing the dependency of the agricultural sector on fossil fuels.
Human health and nutrition
Inter-linkages between health, nutrition, agriculture, and
AKST affect the ability of individuals, communities, and nations to reach sustainability goals. These inter-linkages exist
within the context of multiple stressors that affect population health. A broad and integrated approach is needed to
identify appropriate use of AKST to increase food security
and safety, decrease the incidence and prevalence of a range
of infectious (including emerging and reemerging diseases
such as malaria, avian influenza, HIV/AIDS and others) and
chronic diseases, and decrease occupational exposures, injuries and deaths. Robust agricultural, public health, and
veterinary detection, surveillance, monitoring, and response
systems can help identify the true burden of ill health and
cost-effective, health-promoting strategies and measures.
Additional investments are needed to maintain and improve
current systems and regulations.
•	 Increasing food security can be facilitated by promoting policies and programs to diversify diets and improve
micronutrient intake; and developing and deploying existing and new technologies for the production, processing, preservation, and distribution of food.

01-SR.indd 6

•	

•	

•	

•	

Increasing food safety can be facilitated by effective,
coordinated, and proactive national and international
food safety systems to ensure animal, plant, and human
health, such as investments in adequate infrastructure,
public health and veterinary capacity, legislative frameworks for identification and control of biological and
chemical hazards, and farmer-scientist partnerships for
the identification, monitoring and evaluation of risks.
The burden of infectious disease can be decreased by
strengthening coordination between and the capacity of
agricultural, veterinary, and public health systems; integrating multi-sectoral policies and programs across the
food chain to reduce the spread of infectious diseases;
and developing and deploying new AKST to identify,
monitor, control, and treat diseases.
The burden of chronic disease can be decreased by policies that explicitly recognize the importance of improving human health and nutrition, including regulation of
food product formulation through legislation, international agreements and regulations for food labeling and
health claims, and creation of incentives for the production and consumption of health-promoting foods.
Occupational and public health can be improved by development and enforcement of health and safety regulations (including child labor laws and pesticide regulations), enforcement of cross-border issues such as illegal
use of toxic agrochemicals, and conducting health risk
assessments that make explicit the tradeoffs between
maximizing livelihood benefits, the environment, and
improving health.

Equity
For AKST to contribute to greater equity, investments are required for the development of context-specific technologies,
and expanded access of farmers and other rural people to occupational, non-formal and formal education. An environment in which formal science and technology and local and
traditional knowledge are seen as part of an integral AKST
system can increase equitable access to technologies for a
broad range of producers and natural resource managers.
Incentives in science, universities and research organizations
are needed to foster different kinds of AKST partnerships.
Key options include equitable access to and use of natural
resources (particularly land and water), systems of incentives and rewards for multifunctionality, including ecosystem services, and responding to the vulnerability of farming
and farm worker communities. Reform of the governance
of AKST and related organizations is also important for
the crucial role they can play in improving community-level
scientific literacy, decentralization of technological opportunities, and the integration of farmer concerns in research
priority setting and the design of farmer services. Improving
equity requires synergy among various development actors,
including farmers, rural laborers, banks, civil society organizations, commercial companies, and public agencies. Stakeholder involvement is also crucial in decisions about IPR,
infrastructure, tariffs, and the internalization of social and
environmental costs. New modes of governance to develop
innovative local networks and decentralized government,
focusing on small-scale producers and the urban poor (ur-

11/3/08 12:07:28 PM

Executive Summary of the Synthesis Report | 7

ban agriculture; direct links between urban consumers and
rural producers) will help create and strengthen synergistic
and complementary capacities.
Preferential investments in equitable development (e.g.,
literacy, education and training) that contribute to reducing ethnic, gender, and other inequities would advance development goals. Measurements of returns to investments
require indices that give more information than GDP, and
that are sensitive to environmental and equity gains. The use
of inequality indices for screening AKST investments and
monitoring outcomes strengthens accountability. The Ginicoefficient could, for example, become a public criterion
for policy assessment, in addition to the more conventional
measures of growth, inflation and environment.
Investments
Achieving development and sustainability goals would entail increased funds and more diverse funding mechanisms
for agricultural research and development and associated
knowledge systems, such as:
•	 Public investments in global, regional, national and
local public goods; food security and safety, climate
change and sustainability. More efficient use of increasingly scarce land, water and biological resources requires investment in research and development of legal
and management capabilities.
•	 Public investments in agricultural knowledge systems to
promote interactive knowledge networks (farmers, scientists, industry and actors in other knowledge areas);
improved access to information and communication
technologies (ICT); ecological, evolutionary, food, nutrition, social and complex systems’ sciences; effective
interdisciplinarity; capacity in core agricultural sciences; and improving life-long learning opportunities along
the food system.
•	 Public-private partnerships for improved commercialization of applied knowledge and technologies and joint
funding of AKST, where market risks are high and
where options for widespread utilization of knowledge
exist.
•	 Adequate incentives and rewards to encourage private
and civil society investments in AKST contributing to
development and sustainability goals.
•	 In many developing countries, it may be necessary to
complement these investments with increased and more
targeted investments in rural infrastructure, education
and health.
In the face of new global challenges, there is an urgent need
to strengthen, restructure and possibly establish new intergovernmental, independent science and evidence-based
networks to address such issues as climate forecasting for
agricultural production; human health risks from emerging diseases; reorganization of livelihoods in response to
changes in agricultural systems (population movements);
food security; and global forestry resources.
Themes
The Synthesis Report looked at eight AKST-related themes
of critical interest to meeting development and sustainability goals: bioenergy, biotechnology, climate change, human

01-SR.indd 7

health, natural resource management, trade and markets,
traditional and local knowledge and community-based innovation and women in agriculture.
Bioenergy
Rising costs of fossil fuels, energy security concerns, increased awareness of climate change and potentially positive
effects for economic development have led to considerable
public attention to bioenergy. Bioenergy includes traditional
bioenergy, biomass to produce electricity, light and heat and
first and next generation liquid biofuels. The economics and
the positive and negative social and environmental externalities differ widely, depending on source of biomass, type
of conversion technology and local circumstances.
Primarily due to a lack of affordable alternatives, millions of people in developing countries depend on traditional
bioenergy (e.g., wood fuels) for their cooking and heating
needs, especially in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia.
This reliance on traditional bioenergy can pose considerable environmental, health, economic and social challenges.
New efforts are needed to improve traditional bioenergy
and accelerate the transition to more sustainable forms of
energy.
First generation biofuels consist predominantly of bioethanol and biodiesel produced from agricultural crops
(e.g., maize, sugar cane). Production has been growing fast
in recent years, primarily due to biofuel support policies
since they are cost competitive only under particularly favorable circumstances. The diversion of agricultural crops
to fuel can raise food prices and reduce our ability to alleviate hunger throughout the world. The negative social effects
risk being exacerbated in cases where small-scale farmers
are marginalized or displaced from their land. From an environmental perspective, there is considerable variation, uncertainty and debate over the net energy balance and level
of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. In the long term, effects
on food prices may be reduced, but environmental effects
caused by land and water requirements of large-scale increases of first generation biofuels production are likely to
persist and will need to be addressed.
Next generation biofuels such as cellulosic ethanol and
biomass-to-liquids technologies allow conversion into biofuels of more abundant and cheaper feedstocks than first
generation. This could potentially reduce agricultural land
requirements per unit of energy produced and improve lifecycle GHG emissions, potentially mitigating the environmental pressures from first generation biofuels. However,
next generation biofuels technologies are not yet commercially proven and environmental and social effects are still
uncertain. For example, the use of feedstock and farm residues can compete with the need to maintain organic matter
in sustainable agroecosystems.
Bioelectricity and bioheat are important forms of renewable energy that are usually more efficient and produce less
GHG emissions than liquid biofuels and fossil fuels. Digesters, gasifiers and direct combustion devices can be successfully employed in certain settings, e.g., off-grid areas. There
is potential for expanding these applications but AKST is
needed to reduce costs and improve operational reliability.
For all forms of bioenergy, decision makers should carefully
weigh full social, environmental and economic costs against

11/3/08 12:07:28 PM

8 | IAASTD Synthesis Report

realistically achievable benefits and other sustainable energy
options.
Biotechnology 34
The IAASTD definition of biotechnology is based on that
in the Convention on Biological Diversity and the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety. It is a broad term embracing the
manipulation of living organisms and spans the large range
of activities from conventional techniques for fermentation
and plant and animal breeding to recent innovations in tissue
culture, irradiation, genomics and marker-assisted breeding
(MAB) or marker assisted selection (MAS) to augment natural breeding. Some of the latest biotechnologies (“modern
biotechnology”) include the use of in vitro modified DNA
or RNA and the fusion of cells from different taxonomic
families, techniques that overcome natural physiological reproductive or recombination barriers. Currently the most
contentious issue is the use of recombinant DNA techniques
to produce transgenes that are inserted into genomes. Even
newer techniques of modern biotechnology manipulate heritable material without changing DNA.
Biotechnology has always been on the cutting edge
of change. Change is rapid, the domains involved are numerous, and there is a significant lack of transparent communication among actors. Hence assessment of modern
biotechnology is lagging behind development; information
can be anecdotal and contradictory, and uncertainty on benefits and harms is unavoidable. There is a wide range of perspectives on the environmental, human health and economic
risks and benefits of modern biotechnology; many of these
risks are as yet unknown.
Conventional biotechnologies, such as breeding techniques, tissue culture, cultivation practices and fermentation are readily accepted and used. Between 1950 and 1980,
prior to the development of genetically modified organisms
(GMOs), modern varieties of wheat increased yields up to
33% even in the absence of fertilizer. Modern biotechnologies used in containment have been widely adopted; e.g., the
industrial enzyme market reached US$1.5 billion in 2000.
The application of modern biotechnology outside containment, such as the use of genetically modified (GM) crops is
much more contentious. For example, data based on some
years and some GM crops indicate highly variable 10-33%
yield gains in some places and yield declines in others.
Higher level drivers of biotechnology R&D, such as IPR
frameworks, determine what products become available.
While this attracts investment in agriculture, it can also concentrate ownership of agricultural resources. An emphasis
on modern biotechnology without ensuring adequate support for other agricultural research can alter education and
training programs and reduce the number of professionals
in other core agricultural sciences. This situation can be selfreinforcing since today’s students define tomorrow’s educational and training opportunities.
The use of patents for transgenes introduces additional
issues. In developing countries especially, instruments such
as patents may drive up costs, restrict experimentation
by the individual farmer or public researcher while also
4

01-SR.indd 8

China and USA.

potentially undermining local practices that enhance food
security and economic sustainability. In this regard, there is
particular concern about present IPR instruments eventually
inhibiting seed-saving, exchange, sale and access to proprietary materials necessary for the independent research community to conduct analyses and long term experimentation
on impacts. Farmers face new liabilities: GM farmers may
become liable for adventitious presence if it causes loss of
market certification and income to neighboring organic
farmers, and conventional farmers may become liable to GM
seed producers if transgenes are detected in their crops.
A problem-oriented approach to biotechnology research
and development (R&D) would focus investment on local
priorities identified through participatory and transparent
processes, and favor multifunctional solutions to local
problems. These processes require new kinds of support for
the public to critically engage in assessments of the technical, social, political, cultural, gender, legal, environmental
and economic impacts of modern biotechnology. Biotechnologies should be used to maintain local expertise and
germplasm so that the capacity for further research resides
within the local community. Such R&D would put much
needed emphasis onto participatory breeding projects and
agroecology.
Climate change
Climate change, which is taking place at a time of increasing
demand for food, feed, fiber and fuel, has the potential to
irreversibly damage the natural resource base on which agriculture depends. The relationship between climate change
and agriculture is a two-way street; agriculture contributes
to climate change in several major ways and climate change
in general adversely affects agriculture.
In mid- to high-latitude regions moderate local increases
in temperature can have small beneficial impacts on crop
yields; in low-latitude regions, such moderate temperature
increases are likely to have negative yield effects. Some negative impacts are already visible in many parts of the world;
additional warming will have increasingly negative impacts in all regions. Water scarcity and the timing of water
availability will increasingly constrain production. Climate
change will require a new look at water storage to cope with
the impacts of more and extreme precipitation, higher intraand inter-seasonal variations, and increased rates of evapotranspiration in all types of ecosystems. Extreme climate
events (floods and droughts) are increasing and expected to
amplify in frequency and severity and there are likely to be
significant consequences in all regions for food and forestry
production and food insecurity. There is a serious potential
for future conflicts over habitable land and natural resources
such as freshwater. Climate change is affecting the distribution of plants, invasive species, pests and disease vectors and
the geographic range and incidence of many human, animal
and plant diseases is likely to increase.
A comprehensive approach with an equitable regulatory
framework, differentiated responsibilities and intermediate
targets are required to reduce GHG emissions. The earlier
and stronger the cuts in emissions, the quicker concentrations will approach stabilization. Emission reduction measures clearly are essential because they can have an impact

11/3/08 12:07:29 PM

Executive Summary of the Synthesis Report | 9

due to inertia in the climate system. However, since further
changes in the climate are inevitable adaptation is also imperative. Actions directed at addressing climate change and
promoting sustainable development share some important
goals such as equitable access to resources and appropriate
technologies.
Some “win-win” mitigation opportunities have already
been identified. These include land use approaches such as
lower rates of agricultural expansion into natural habitats;
afforestation, reforestation, increased efforts to avoid deforestation, agroforestry, agroecological systems, and restoration of underutilized or degraded lands and rangelands and
land use options such as carbon sequestration in agricultural
soils, reduction and more efficient use of nitrogenous inputs;
effective manure management and use of feed that increases
livestock digestive efficiency. Policy options related to regulations and investment opportunities include financial incentives to maintain and increase forest area through reduced
deforestation and degradation and improved management
and the development and utilization of renewable energy
sources. The post-2012 regime has to be more inclusive of
all agricultural activities such as reduced emission from deforestation and soil degradation to take full advantage of the
opportunities offered by agriculture and forestry sectors.
Human health
Despite the evident and complex links between health, nutrition, agriculture, and AKST, improving human health is
not generally an explicit goal of agricultural policy. Agriculture and AKST can affect a range of health issues including
undernutrition, chronic diseases, infectious diseases, food
safety, and environmental and occupational health. Ill heath
in the farming community can in turn reduce agricultural
productivity and the ability to develop and deploy appropriate AKST. Ill health can result from undernutrition, as well
as over-nutrition. Despite increased global food production
over recent decades, undernutrition is still a major global
public health problem, causing over 15% of the global disease burden. Protein energy and micronutrient malnutrition
remain challenges, with high variability between and within
countries. Food security can be improved through policies
and programs to increase dietary diversity and through development and deployment of existing and new technologies
for production, processing, preservation, and distribution
of food.
AKST policies and practices have increased production
and new mechanisms for food processing. Reduced dietary
quality and diversity and inexpensive foods with low nutrient density have been associated with increasing rates of
worldwide obesity and chronic disease. Poor diet throughout the life course is a major risk factor for chronic diseases, which are the leading cause of global deaths. There is
a need to focus on consumers and the importance of dietary
quality as main drivers of production, and not merely on
quantity or price. Strategies include fiscal policies (taxation,
trade regimes) for health-promoting foods and regulation
of food product formulation, labeling and commercial information.
Globalization of the food supply, accompanied by concentration of food distribution and processing companies,

01-SR.indd 9

and growing consumer awareness increase the need for
effective, coordinated, and proactive national food safety
systems. Health concerns that could be addressed by AKST
include the presence of pesticide residues, heavy metals, hormones, antibiotics and various additives in the food system
as well as those related to large-scale livestock farming.
Strengthened food safety measures are important and
necessary in both domestic and export markets and can impose significant costs. Some countries may need help in meeting food control costs such as monitoring and inspection,
and costs associated with market rejection of contaminated
commodities. Taking a broad and integrated agroecosystem
and human health approach can facilitate identification of
animal, plant, and human health risks, and appropriate
AKST responses.
Worldwide, agriculture accounts for at least 170,000
occupational deaths each year: half of all fatal accidents.
Machinery and equipment, such as tractors and harvesters,
account for the highest rates of injury and death, particularly among rural laborers. Other important health hazards
include agrochemical poisoning, transmissible animal diseases, toxic or allergenic agents, and noise, vibration and
ergonomic hazards. Improving occupational health requires
a greater emphasis on health protection through development and enforcement of health and safety regulations. Policies should explicitly address tradeoffs between livelihood
benefits and environmental, occupational and public health
risks.
The incidence and geographic range of many emerging
and reemerging infectious diseases are influenced by the intensification of crop and livestock systems. Serious socioeconomic impacts can arise when diseases spread widely within
human or animal populations, or when they spill over from
animal reservoirs to human hosts. Most of the factors that
contribute to disease emergence will continue, if not intensify. Integrating policies and programs across the food chain
can help reduce the spread of infectious diseases; robust
detection, surveillance, monitoring, and response programs
are critical.
Natural resource management45
Natural resources, especially those of soil, water, plant and
animal diversity, vegetation cover, renewable energy sources,
climate and ecosystem services are fundamental for the
structure and function of agricultural systems and for social
and environmental sustainability, in support of life on earth.
Historically the path of global agricultural development has
been narrowly focused on increased productivity rather than
on a more holistic integration of natural resources management (NRM) with food and nutritional security. A holistic,
or systems-oriented approach, is preferable because it can
address the difficult issues associated with the complexity
of food and other production systems in different ecologies,
locations and cultures.
AKST to resolve NRM exploitation issues, such as
the mitigation of soil fertility through synthetic inputs and
natural processes, is often available and well understood.
Capture fisheries and forestry have not been as well covered as
other aspects of NRM.

5

11/3/08 12:07:29 PM

10 | IAASTD Synthesis Report

Nevertheless, the resolution of natural resource challenges
will demand new and creative approaches by stakeholders
with diverse backgrounds, skills and priorities. Capabilities
for working together at multiple scales and across different
social and physical environments are not well developed.
For example, there have been few opportunities for two-way
learning between farmers and researchers or policy makers.
Consequently farmers and civil society members have seldom been involved in shaping NRM policy. Communitybased partnerships with the private sector, now in their early
stages of development, represent a new and promising way
forward.
The following high priority NRM options for action are
proposed:
•	 Use existing AKST to identify and address some of the
underlying causes of declining productivity embedded
in natural resource mismanagement, and develop new
AKST based on multidisciplinary approaches for a better understanding of the complexity in NRM. Part of
this process will involve the cost-effective monitoring of
trends in the utilization of natural resource capital.
•	 Strengthen human resources in the support of natural
capital through increased investment (research, training
and education, partnerships, policy) in promoting the
awareness of the societal costs of degradation and value
of ecosystems services.
•	 Promote research “centers of AKST-NRM excellence”
to facilitate less exploitative NRM and better strategies
for resource resilience, protection and renewal through
innovative two-way learning processes in research and
development, monitoring and policy formulation.
•	 Create an enabling environment for building NRM capacity and increasing understanding of NRM among
stakeholders and their organizations in order to shape
NRM policy in partnership with public and private sectors.
•	 Develop networks of AKST practitioners (farmer organizations, NGOs, government, private sector) to facilitate long-term natural resource management to enhance benefits from natural resources for the collective
good.
•	 Connect globalization and localization pathways that
link locally generated NRM knowledge and innovations to public and private AKST.
When AKST is developed and used creatively with active
participation among various stakeholders across multiple
scales, the misuse of natural capital can be reversed and the
judicious use and renewal of water bodies, soils, biodiversity, ecosystems services, fossil fuels and atmospheric quality
ensured for future generations.
Trade and markets
Targeting market and trade policies to enhance the ability
of agricultural and AKST systems to drive development,
strengthen food security, maximize environmental sustainability, and help make the small-scale farm sector profitable
to spearhead poverty reduction is an immediate challenge
around the world.
Agricultural trade can offer opportunities for the poor,
but current arrangements have major distributional impacts

01-SR.indd 10

among, and within, countries that in many cases have not
been favorable for small-scale farmers and rural livelihoods.
These distributional impacts call for differentiation in policy
frameworks and institutional arrangements if these countries are to benefit from agricultural trade. There is growing
concern that opening national agricultural markets to international competition before basic institutions and infrastructure are in place can undermine the agricultural sector,
with long-term negative effects for poverty, food security
and the environment.56
Trade policy reform to provide a fairer global trading
system can make a positive contribution to sustainability
and development goals. Special and differential treatment
accorded through trade negotiations can enhance the ability
of developing countries to pursue food security and development goals while minimizing trade-related dislocations.
Preserving national policy flexibility allows developing
countries to balance the needs of poor consumers (urban
and rural landless) and rural small-scale farmers. Increasing
the value captured by small-scale farmers in global, regional
and local markets chains is fundamental to meeting development and sustainability goals. Supportive trade policies
can also make new AKST available to the small-scale farm
sector and agroenterprises.
Developing countries would benefit from the removal
of barriers for products in which they have a comparative
advantage; reduction of escalating tariffs for processed commodities in industrialized and developing countries; deeper
preferential access to markets for least developed countries;
increased public investment in rural infrastructure and the
generation of public goods AKST; and improved access to
credit, AKST resources and markets for poor producers.
Compensating revenues lost as a result of tariff reductions
is essential to advancing development agendas.67
Agriculture generates large environmental externalities,
many of which derive from failure of markets to value environmental and social harm and provide incentives for sustainability. AKST has great potential to reverse this trend.
Market and trade policies to facilitate the contribution of
AKST to reducing the environmental footprint of agriculture include removing resource use–distorting subsidies;
taxing externalities; better definitions of property rights;
and developing rewards and markets for agroenvironmental services, including the extension of carbon financing, to
provide incentives for sustainable agriculture.
The quality and transparency of governance in the
agricultural sector, including increased participation of
stakeholders in AKST decision making is fundamental.
Strengthening developing country trade analysis and negotiation capacity, and providing better tools for assessing
tradeoffs in proposed trade agreements are important to improving governance.
Traditional and local knowledge and communitybased innovation
Once AKST is directed simultaneously toward production,
profitability, ecosystem services and food systems that are
site-specific and evolving, then formal, traditional and lo6
7

USA.
Canada and USA.

11/3/08 12:07:30 PM

Executive Summary of the Synthesis Report | 11

cal knowledge need to be integrated. Traditional and local
knowledge constitutes an extensive realm of accumulated
practical knowledge and knowledge-generating capacity that
is needed if sustainability and development goals are to be
reached. The traditional knowledge, identities and practices
of indigenous and local communities are recognized under
the UN Convention on Biological Diversity as embodying
ways of life relevant for conservation and sustainable use of
biodiversity; and by others as generated by the purposeful
interaction of material and non-material worlds embedded
in place-based cultures and identities. Local knowledge refers to capacities and activities that exist among rural people
in all parts of the world.
Traditional and local knowledge is dynamic; it may
sometimes fail but also has had well-documented, extensive, positive impacts. Participatory collaboration in knowledge generation, technology development and innovation
has been shown to add value to science-based technology
development, for instance in Farmer-Researcher groups in
the Andes, in Participatory Plant Breeding, the domestication of wild and semiwild tree species and in soil and water
management.
Options for action with proven contribution to achieving sustainability and development goals include collaboration in the conservation, development and use of local and
traditional biological materials; incentives for and development of capacity among scientists and formal research organizations to work with local and indigenous people and
their organizations; a higher profile in scientific education
for indigenous and local knowledge as well as for professional and community-based archiving and assessment of
such knowledge and practices. The role of modern ICT in
achieving effective collaboration is critical to evolving culturally appropriate integration and merits larger investments
and support. Effective collaboration and integration would
be supported by international intellectual property and
other regimes that allow more scope for dealing effectively
with situations involving traditional knowledge, genetic
resources and community-based innovations. Examples of
misappropriation of indigenous and local people’s knowledge and community-based innovations indicate a need for
sharing of information about existing national sui generis
and regulatory frameworks.
Women in agriculture
Gender, that is socially constructed relations between men
and women, is an organizing element of existing farming
systems worldwide and a determining factor of ongoing agricultural restructuring. Current trends in agricultural market liberalization and in the reorganization of farm work, as
well as the rise of environmental and sustainability concerns
are redefining the links between gender and development.
The proportion of women in agricultural production and
postharvest activities ranges from 20 to 70%; their involve-

01-SR.indd 11

ment is increasing in many developing countries, particularly
with the development of export-oriented irrigated farming,
which is associated with a growing demand for female labor,
including migrant workers.
Whereas these dynamics have in some ways brought
benefits, in general, the largest proportion of rural women
worldwide continues to face deteriorating health and work
conditions, limited access to education and control over natural resources, insecure employment and low income. This
situation is due to a variety of factors, including the growing
competition on agricultural markets which increases the demand for flexible and cheap labor, growing pressure on and
conflicts over natural resources, the diminishing support by
governments for small-scale farms and the reallocation of
economic resources in favor of large agroenterprises. Other
factors include increasing exposure to risks related to natural disasters and environmental changes, worsening access
to water, increasing occupational and health risks.
Despite progress made in national and international
policies since the first world conference on women in 1975,
urgent action is still necessary to implement gender and
social equity in AKST policies and practices if we are to
better address gender issues as integral to development processes. Such action includes strengthening the capacity of
public institutions and NGOs to improve the knowledge
of women’s changing forms of involvement in farm and
other rural activities in AKST. It also requires giving priority to women’s access to education, information, science
and technology, and extension services to enable improving
women’s access, ownership and control of economic and
natural resources. To ensure such access, ownership and
control legal measures, appropriate credit schemes, support
for women’s income generating activities and the reinforcement of women’s organizations and networks are needed.
This, in turn, depends on strengthening women’s ability to
benefit from market-based opportunities by institutions and
policies giving explicit priority to women farmer groups in
value chains.
A number of other changes will strengthen women’s
contributions to agricultural production and sustainability.
These include support for public services and investment in
rural areas in order to improve women’s living and working conditions; giving priority to technological development
policies targeting rural and farm women’s needs and recognizing their knowledge, skills and experience in the production of food and the conservation of biodiversity; and
assessing the negative effects and risks of farming practices
and technology, including pesticides on women’s health,
and taking measures to reduce use and exposure. Finally,
if we are to better recognize women as integral to sustainable development, it is critical to ensure gender balance in
AKST decision-making at all levels and provide mechanisms
to hold AKST organizations accountable for progress in the
above areas.

11/3/08 12:07:30 PM

Annex

Reservations on Executive Summary

Reservations on full Executive Summary
Australia: Australia recognizes the IAASTD initiative and
reports as a timely and important multistakeholder and multidisciplinary exercise designed to assess and enhance the
role of AKST in meeting the global development challenges.
The wide range of observations and views presented however, are such that Australia cannot agree with all assertions
and options in the report. The report is therefore noted as
a useful contribution which will be used for considering the
future priorities and scope of AKST in securing economic
growth and the alleviation of hunger and poverty.
Canada: The Canadian Government recognizes the significant work undertaken by IAASTD authors, Secretariat
and stakeholders and notes the Executive Summary of the
Synthesis Report as a valuable and important contribution
to policy debate which needs to continue in national and
international processes. While acknowledging considerable
improvement has been achieved through a process of compromise, there remain a number of assertions and observations that require more substantial, balanced and objective
analysis. However, the Canadian Government advocates it
be drawn to the attention of governments for consideration
in addressing the importance of AKST and its large potential to contribute to economic growth and the reduction of
hunger and poverty.
United States of America: The United States joins consensus with other governments in the critical importance of
AKST to meet the goals of the IAASTD. We commend the
tireless efforts of the authors, editors, Co-Chairs and the
Secretariat. We welcome the IAASTD for bringing together
the widest array of stakeholders for the first time in an initiative of this magnitude. We respect the wide diversity of
views and healthy debate that took place.

As we have specific and substantive concerns in each of
the reports, the United States is unable to provide unqualified endorsement of the reports, and we have noted them.
The United States believes the Assessment has potential
for stimulating further deliberation and research. Further,
we acknowledge the reports are a useful contribution for
consideration by governments of the role of AKST in raising sustainable economic growth and alleviating hunger and
poverty.
Reservations on individual passages
1.	 Botswana notes that this is specially a problem in subSaharan Africa.
2.	 The USA would prefer that this sentence be written as
follows “progressive evolution of IPR regimes in countries where national policies are not fully developed and
progressive engagement in IPR management.”
3.	 The UK notes that there is no international definition of
food sovereignty.
4.	 China and USA do not believe that this entire section is
balanced and comprehensive.
6.	 The USA would prefer that this sentence be reflected
in this paragraph: “Opening national agricultural markets to international competition can offer economic
benefits, but can lead to long-term negative effects on
poverty alleviation, food security and the environment
without basic national institutions and infrastructure
being in place.”
7.	 Canada and USA would prefer the following sentence:
“Provision of assistance to help low income countries
affected by liberalization to adjust and benefit from
liberalized trade is essential to advancing development
agendas.”

12

01-SR.indd 12

11/3/08 12:07:30 PM

Synthesis Report
A Synthesis of the Global and Sub-Global IAASTD Reports

13

01-SR.indd 13

11/3/08 12:07:30 PM

01-SR.indd 14

11/3/08 12:07:31 PM

Statement by Governments on Synthesis Report

All countries present at the final intergovernmental plenary
session held in Johannesburg, South Africa in April 2008
welcome the work of the IAASTD and the uniqueness of
this independent multistakeholder and multidisciplinary
process, and the scale of the challenge of covering a broad
range of complex issues. The Governments present recognize that the Global and Sub-Global Reports are the conclusions of studies by a wide range of scientific authors, experts
and development specialists and while presenting an overall
consensus on the importance of agricultural knowledge, science and technology for development they also provide a
diversity of views on some issues.
All countries see these Reports as a valuable and important contribution to our understanding on agricultural
knowledge, science and technology for development recognizing the need to further deepen our understanding of the
challenges ahead. This Assessment is a constructive initiative and important contribution that all governments need
to take forward to ensure that agricultural knowledge, science and technology fulfils its potential to meet the development and sustainability goals of the reduction of hunger and
poverty, the improvement of rural livelihoods and human
health, and facilitating equitable, socially, environmentally
and economically sustainable development.

In accordance with the above statement, the following
governments accept the Synthesis Report.
Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belize,
Benin, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, Cameroon, People’s Republic of China, Costa Rica, Cuba, Democratic Republic
of Congo, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Ethiopia,
Finland, France, Gambia, Ghana, Honduras, India, Iran,
Ireland, Kenya, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Maldives,
Republic of Moldova, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria,
Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Philippines, Poland, Republic of Palau, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Solomon
Islands, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, United Republic
of Tanzania, Timor-Leste, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda,
United Kingdom of Great Britain, Uruguay, Viet Nam,
Zambia (58 countries).
While approving the above statement the following
governments did not fully accept the Synthesis Report and
their reservations are entered in Annex A.
Australia, Canada, United States of America (3
countries).

15

01-SR.indd 15

11/3/08 12:07:31 PM

01-SR.indd 16

11/3/08 12:07:31 PM

Part II: Current Conditions, Challenges and Options for Action

Writing team: Inge Armbrecht (Colombia), Nienke Beintema
(Netherlands), Rym Ben Zid (Tunisia), Fabrice Dreyfus (France),
Shelley Feldman (USA), Ameenah Gurib-Fakim (Mauritius), Hans
Hurni (Switzerland), Janice Jiggins (UK), Kawther Latiri (Tunisia),
Marianne Lefort (France), Lindela Ndlovu (Zimbabwe), Ivette
Perfecto (Puerto Rico), Cristina Plencovich (Argentina), Rajeswari
Raina (India), Niels Roling (Netherlands), Elizabeth Robinson
(UK), Neils Roling (Netherlands), Hong Yang (Australia)

This assessment of the ways in which knowledge, science and
technology contribute to development goals offers a chance
to reflect on how people engage their environment to secure
healthy lives and livelihoods. Growing concerns with the
effects of long-term climatic and ecological changes, which
require global as well as national and local responses, make
the IAASTD especially opportune. We are, in short, in need
of a shared approach to sustainability. This realization is
at the heart of the objectives of the IAASTD: how can we
reduce hunger and poverty, improve rural livelihoods and
facilitate equitable environmentally, socially and economically sustainable development.
This opportunity for stocktaking coincides with the
widespread realization that despite significant achievements
in our ability to increase agricultural productive capacity to
meet growing demand, we have been less attentive to some
of the unintended social and ecological consequences of our
technological and economic achievements. We are now in a
better position to reflect on these costs and to outline policy
options to meet the challenges ahead of us, perhaps best
characterized as the need for food security under increasingly constrained environmental conditions and globalized
economic systems. The IAASTD recognizes the importance
of the multiple functions of agriculture and their intersection
with other global concerns, including loss of biodiversity
and ecosystem services, climate change and water scarcity.
Some of the findings from recent assessments conducted by
the international community that coincide with those of the
IAASTD include:
•	 Recognition that current social and economic inequities, across and within regions and states, are a significant barrier to achieving development goals.
•	 Uncertainty about the ability to sustainably produce
sufficient food for a continually expanding and demographically changing population where new demands
for food and ecosystem services challenge current production systems.
•	 Uncertainty about the future of world food prices under
the impact of climate change, emerging trade regimes,

•	
•	
•	

•	

•	

changing dietary patterns and the increased interest in
biofuels.
The end of cheap oil and the need to factor energy efficiency and dependence on tractors, fertilizer, pumped
water and transport into food security strategies.
The emergence of fast-growing economies as additional
competitors for resources in the wake of their phenomenal economic growth.
The increase in chronic ailments, including obesity in
poor and rich countries, that increase rates of morbidity
and mortality and are partially a consequence of poor
nutrition and poor food quality.
Projected changes in the frequency and severity of extreme weather events in addition to increases in fire hazards, pests and diseases will have significant implications for agricultural production and food security, e.g.,
for the location of food production, concentrations of
human settlements, and water availability.
The growing awareness of human responsibility for the
maintenance of global ecosystem services, and of the
changes in global, national and local governance mechanisms required to meet the responsibilities associated
with sustainable growth.

We cannot escape our predicament by simply continuing to
apply methodological individualism, i.e., by relying on the
outcome of individual choices to achieve sustainable and
equitable collective outcomes. The IAASTD takes a unique
integrated approach to these urgent global problems: the development and deployment of human ingenuity to enhance
agriculture, which is defined most broadly to include managing ecological processes in ways that capture and sustain
human opportunity. We refer to this as agricultural knowledge, science and technology (AKST). AKST explicitly refers
not only to technology but also to the economic and social
science knowledge that informs decisions about policies and
institutional change required for reaching IAASTD goals.
Further, AKST not only refers to “formal” science processes,
but also very much to the local and traditional knowledges
that still inform most farming today.
IAASTD recognizes that multiple perspectives exist on
the nature and role of AKST. For many years, agricultural
science focused on delivering component technologies to
increase farm-level productivity where the market and institutional arrangements put in place by the state were the primary drivers of the adoption of new technologies. In order
to benefit from productivity gains farmers had to continually innovate, reduce farm gate prices and externalize costs.
17

01-SR.indd 17

11/3/08 12:07:31 PM

18 | IAASTD Synthesis Report

This model drove the phenomenal achievements of AKST in
industrial countries after World War II and the extension of
the Green Revolution beginning in the 1960s. But, given the
new challenges we confront today, there is increasing recognition within formal S&T organizations that the current
AKST model, too, requires adaptation and revision. Business as usual is not an option.
One area of potential adaptation is to move from an
exclusive focus on public and private research as the site for
R&D toward the democratization of knowledge production.
Such an approach requires multiagent involvement to make
accessible and available for exchange the skills of local producers. Another area of AKST innovation must lie with more
explicit attention to issues that attend to the use of AKST,
namely addressing the complex role of institutions, governance practices and social justice concerns that enable or
constrain the realization of development and sustainability.

Multifunctionality
The term multifunctionality has sometimes been interpreted
as having implications for trade and protectionism. This is not
the definition used here. In IAASTD, multifunctionality is used
solely to express the inescapable interconnectedness of agriculture’s different roles and functions. The concept of multifunctionality recognizes agriculture as a multi-output activity
producing not only commodities (food, feed, fibers, agrofuels,
medicinal products and ornamentals), but also non-commodity outputs such as environmental services, landscape amenities and cultural heritages.
The working definition proposed by OECD, which is used
by the IAASTD, associates multifunctionality with the particular characteristics of the agricultural production process and
its outputs; (1) multiple commodity and non-commodity outputs are jointly produced by agriculture; and (2) some of the
non-commodity outputs may exhibit the characteristics of externalities or public goods, such that markets for these goods
function poorly or are nonexistent.
The use of the term has been controversial and contested
in global trade negotiations, and it has centered on whether
“trade-distorting” agricultural subsidies are needed for agriculture to perform its many functions. Proponents argue that
current patterns of agricultural subsidies, international trade
and related policy frameworks do not stimulate transitions
toward equitable agricultural and food trade relation or sustainable food and farming systems and have given rise to perverse impacts on natural resources and agroecologies as well
as on human health and nutrition. Opponents argue that attempts to remedy these outcomes by means of trade-related
instruments will weaken the efficiency of agricultural trade and
lead to further undesirable market distortion; their preferred
approach is to address the externalized costs and negative
impacts on poverty, the environment, human health and nutrition by other means.

01-SR.indd 18

A conception of AKST that includes regulatory frameworks, institutional arrangements, market relations and
knowledge in a global economy is reflected in this report.
This approach appreciates diverse interests and concerns
across a range of agricultural production systems and agricultural producers, including conventional or productivist strategies, agroecological approaches, and indigenous or
traditional peasant practices. The IAASTD thus uses the lens
of multifunctionality to assess the contribution of AKST to
development and sustainability.
In this Report we highlight options drawn from a comparative analysis of the Global and Sub-Global reports
(CWANA, ESAP, LAC, NAE and SSA) into two thematic
areas: (1) current conditions and major challenges, and (2)
options for action.
1. Current Conditions and Challenges
Agriculture and the knowledge systems that are relevant
to the sector now face an impasse. There are tremendous
achievements in science and production, yet some of the unintended consequences of these very achievements have not
been sufficiently addressed. To address these consequences
it is important to account for the prevalent inequalities that
characterize relations between regions and countries as well
as within them. We, as global citizens have little time to lose.
Today we find a world of asymmetric development, unsustainable natural resource use, and continued rural and
urban poverty. There is general agreement about the current global environmental and development crisis. It is also
known that the consequences of these global changes have
the most devastating impacts on the poorest, who historically have had limited entitlements and opportunities for
growth.
AKST and agricultural change. Agricultural productivity
and production have increased steadily in response to several drivers of change, including the generation and application of AKST. While in North America and Europe (NAE)
this phenomenon has been ongoing since the 1940s, in other
regions of the world such growth only began in the 1960s,
70s or 80s. In some parts of developing countries formal
AKST is yet to make its presence felt as a major driver of
agrarian change. The pace of technology generation and
adoption has been highly uneven. One region, the NAE,
continues to dominate in the volume and variety of agricultural exports, extended value chains and the generation of
agricultural technologies (high-yielding varieties, synthetic
fertilizers, pesticides and mechanization technologies) as
well as recent advances in organic and sustainable production which have helped shape the policies and organizations
of AKST in the other regions. While globally, there is an
urgent need to revitalize and strengthen AKST, the critical
regional differences in agroecosystems, access to formal
S&T and diverse impacts on people and ecosystems, pose
a challenge to the continuing dominance of a uniform type
of formal AKST. The current global system pits small-scale,
largely subsistence farmers in rainfed agricultures against
farmers who during the past century have been assisted to
increasingly capture economies of scale by specialization
and externalizing social and environmental costs.

11/3/08 12:07:31 PM

Current Conditions, Challenges and Options for Action | 19

Figure SR-P1. A multifunctional perspective of agriculture.

01-SR.indd 19

11/3/08 12:07:32 PM

01-SR.indd 20

11/3/08 12:08:04 PM

Figure SR-P2. 50 million climate refugees by 2010

Current Conditions, Challenges and Options for Action | 21

Economic importance, poverty and livelihood expectations.
Despite steady growth over the past few decades, the contribution of agriculture to national GDP has been steadily declining in all the regions. The proportion of the population
dependent on the sector ranges from 3% in NAE to over
60% in ESAP and SSA. Across diverse geopolitical contexts
and ecosystems, agriculture continues to play important
economic and social roles and currently engages 2.6 billion
people. The majority of the world’s poor and hungry live
in rural settings and are directly or indirectly dependent on
agriculture for their livelihoods.
While the transition from predominantly agrarian economies to industrial or service sector led economies has occurred the world over, the character and rate of industrial
growth has been highly differentiated with rural populations
surviving on a steadily dwindling share of the economic pie.
In addition, agriculture has been subject to worsening terms
of trade, globally as well as nationally. The burden of poverty in the sector is incommensurate with the magnitude and
range of expectations from agriculture.
AKST and the agricultural and food systems can make
a significant contribution to alleviating poverty for the over
1.2 billion people who live on less than $1 per day and provide adequate and nutritious food for the over 800 million
undernourished people. Despite a global reduction in absolute poverty, the proportion of the population that is still
poor (below poverty line) continues to grow. The need to
retool AKST to reduce poverty and provide improved livelihood options for the rural poor—especially landless and
peasant communities, urban informal and migrant workers,
is a major challenge today. The macro-level challenge is to
equip agriculture with the capacity to address the burden of
poverty through intra- and inter-sectoral development policies.
Development models and the environment. The drivers
of ecological change can best be understood as the consequences of development models pursued over the 20th
century. Broadly conceived, the regional imbalance of economic growth, its contribution to the ecological crisis and
its effects are differentially experienced in countries of the
North and the South. There are multiple causal interlinkages between environmental degradation and poverty, which
are exacerbated by the uneven distribution of and access
to resources (natural resources, capital, information, etc.)
between regions and within countries. For instance, small
island nations and the coastal populations of developing
countries, which contribute the least to global warming,
will be among the first to disappear, yet have very limited if
any capacity or resources to respond to such crises.
Across the regions, the poorest, including a disproportionate number of women and children are among the most
vulnerable to emerging natural and human-induced environmental disasters. Thus the empowerment of women as
repositories of knowledge about local ecosystems, and as
significant constituents of the agricultural labor force (62,
66 and 69% in East Asia, SSA and South Asia, respectively)
is fundamental to development and to adapting to a changing environment. Parts of CWANA and SSA (e.g., Lesotho,
Yemen) still have legislation that denies women land rights
and market citizenship.

01-SR.indd 21

Even in the well-off countries of NAE where significant
knowledge exists about appropriate responses to emerging
challenges, actions to address mitigation and adaptation to
global climate change have thus far been minimal.
Regional Differences and Achievement of
Development and Sustainability Goals
Just as current conditions of agricultural production, environmental degradation, inequality, and availability and
access to advanced technologies vary from one region to
another, so do the challenges and perception of relative importance of development and sustainability goals. At the
global, regional and national levels, decision makers must
be acutely conscious of the fact that there are diverse challenges, multiple theoretical frameworks and development
models and a wide range of options. Our perception of the
challenges and the choices we make at this juncture in history will determine the future of human beings and their
environment.
The commitment to address poverty and livelihoods reflects the critical role of agriculture and rural employment
opportunities in developing countries where 30-60% of all
livelihoods arise from agricultural and allied activities. In
NAE, where food insecurity and hunger are no longer major
problems, attention has shifted to the question of relative
poverty and rapidly declining and changing livelihoods.
Reducing hunger is an important goal in all developing
regions: CWANA, ESAP, LAC and SSA. Of the 854 million
malnourished people in 2001 to 2003, only 9 million were
in the developed world; ESAP accounted for 61% of the
total. In ESAP, however, this represents only 15% of the total regional population while the 206 million malnourished
SSA inhabitants represent 32% of the region’s population.
The substantial number of hungry and malnourished people
in NAE indicates that more production does not necessarily
equate with hunger reduction.
Improving human health and nutrition is critical for all
regions. AKST can affect health via food safety and security,
chronic and infectious diseases, and occupational health. Malnutrition is a major cause of ill health and reduced productivity,
particularly in SSA and CWANA. Food safety is an important health issue in all regions. Inappropriate application of
AKST contributes to the increase in overweight, obesity, and
chronic diseases that is being experienced in all countries.
The burden of emerging and reemerging infectious diseases
remains high in SSA, CWANA, and ESAP. The relative burden of occupational health burdens is lowest in NAE.
Environmental goals are important globally despite pressure on the environment due to relatively high industrialization, urbanization and productivity enhancing agricultural
practices in NAE, and pressures to enhance productivity
even at the cost of environmental goods and services in
SSA. This is consistent with the relative contribution of agriculture to natural resource degradation, as well as to the
relative importance of agriculture in the overall economy in
each region, as is evident in their respective IAASTD Summaries for Decision Makers.
Equity is important across all regions. This goal draws
attention to the current conditions of iniquitous distribution
and access to resources and to overall income inequality,
which is most extreme in LAC. Regional analyses (ESAP,

11/3/08 12:08:04 PM

22 | IAASTD Synthesis Report

LAC and SSA) indicate that the unequal distribution of
resources is a major constraint that shapes development
needs and impedes the achievement of all other development
and sustainability goals.
Farming systems
Agriculture is currently constrained in its capacity to respond to poverty and generate a range of livelihood options
in rural areas. Farming systems are very diverse and range
between large scale capital intensive farming systems to
small-scale labor intensive farming systems. Over the 20th
century there was increasing farming system specialization
in NAE, largely due to the implementation of policies and
measures aimed at expanding agricultural production (land
reclamation, subsidies, price systems, border tariffs). A high
proportion of farmers in CWANA, ESAP, LAC and SSA are
small-scale producers whose livelihood strategies include
poly-cropping, tree products and livestock as well as offfarm activities. In developing countries generally, limited rural and urban employment opportunities and the continuing
dependence of cultivators on economically unviable smallscale holdings (increasing input prices; relatively stagnant
agricultural output prices; cheap, subsidized imports; and
limited surplus) have diminished the viability of subsistence
production alone.
In addition, modern biological, chemical and mechanical technologies, in particular, are designed for farms and
farming systems which have attendant entitlements and conditions that enable the production of tradable and vertically
integrated commodities in value chains. Where the government and some private and civil society organizations have
enabled appropriate scale effects as well as technical and
financial support, small-scale farmers also have intensified
their production systems and benefited from increasing market integration. Though the productivity per unit of land
and per unit of energy use is much higher in these small and
diversified farms than the large intensive farming systems
in irrigated areas, they continue to be neglected by formal
AKST. [See Part II: Bioenergy and Climate Change]
In the semiarid CWANA where water scarcity is prevalent, current conditions favor large-scale monocropping systems that rely on high investment (in water supply, machinery
and agrochemicals) and cause environmental degradation,
although positive solutions can emerge through AKST and
incentives for enhancing incomes in the small-scale farm sector. The challenge for AKST is to address these small-scale
farms in diverse ecosystems and to create realistic opportunities for their development; the potential for improved area
productivity is decreasing, except for low-input and labororiented agriculture in a few regions of the world.
There is a significant correlation between capital stock
in agriculture and value added per worker—for example
in CWANA, countries with capital intensive agriculture
are associated with high value added per worker. In many
developing countries, especially in SSA and the least developed countries in ESAP, the low capitalization of agriculture
translates into low value added per worker, thus worsening the vicious cycle of agrarian and rural poverty. These
conditions are often coupled with declining employment
opportunities in agriculture that require rural laborers to
secure alternative non-farm employment. Unfortunately,

01-SR.indd 22

the non-farm labor market is constrained by high unemployment, especially for the relatively large unskilled young
population in search of work. While organic and ecological
agriculture as practiced in parts of ESAP and LAC can provide more employment, the absolute unemployment figures,
especially in ESAP, are massive. In SSA and ESAP as well
as labor surplus countries in other regions, it is crucial to
explore how agricultural and rural production processes can
be better linked with industrial and service sector growth.
AKST in its current form, whether as formal S&T organizations or local and traditional knowledge specific to agroecosystems, is limited in its capacity to inform change in
the institutions that frame human interaction, equitable and
just governance and vibrant links with other sectors of the
economy.
Market conditions, trends and challenges
Agricultural commodities the world over are currently facing a secular decline in prices accompanied by wide fluctuations. IAASTD projections of the global food system indicate
a tightening of world food markets, with increasing market
concentration in a few hands and rapid growth of global retail chains in all developing countries, natural and physical
resource scarcity, and adverse implications for food security.
Real world prices of most cereals and meats are projected
to increase in the coming decades, dramatically reversing
past trends. Millions of small-scale producers and landless
labor in developing countries and underdeveloped markets,
already weakened by changes in global and regional trade,
with poor market infrastructure, inadequate bargaining capacity and lack of skills to comply with new market demands, will face reduced access to food and livelihoods.
The food security challenge is likely to worsen if markets
and market-driven agricultural production systems continue
to grow in a “business as usual” mode. By 2050, the world
will have 80 million severely malnourished children, concentrated mainly in South Asia and sub-Saharan Africa. Industrialized country agricultural subsidies and advantages in
agricultural added value per worker close off options for the
export of agricultural commodities from sub-Saharan Africa and distort their domestic markets, thereby suppressing
producer incentives to adopt new technologies and enhance
crop productivity. In CWANA and ESAP, trade barriers (including IPR, quality standards), market distorting domestic
policies and international protocols or restrictions add to
the complexity of future food security. The food security
challenge is likely to worsen current conflicts, cross border
tensions, and environmental security concerns.
In CWANA, ESAP, LAC, and SSA, a number of mechanisms to protect producers from price fluctuations and enable access to and compliance with new market practices or
trade requirements (like sanitary and phytosanitary [SPS]
measures), include market-based instruments such as futures
trading, which small-scale producers find difficult to access.
Market based instruments also include commodity boards
and price regulation which large buyers find too limiting
to meet their needs [See Part II: Trade and Markets]. The
emergence of regional and preferential trade agreements
and trading blocks among developing countries reveals an
increasing mistrust of, and untenable nature of global trade
regimes, given the perception of an unequal playing field.

11/3/08 12:08:05 PM

Current Conditions, Challenges and Options for Action | 23

Top 10 global food retailers
2002 sales (millions US$)

Wal-Mart (USA)
Carrefour (France)
Royal Ahold (Netherlands)
Kroger (USA)
Metro AG (Germany)
Tesco (UK)
Costco (USA)
Albertson’s (USA)
Safeway (USA)
Ito-Yokado (Japan)
0

50000

100000

150000

Source: ETC group – Communiqué, September/October 2005; Issue #90

200000

250000

IAASTD. Design: UNEP/GRID-Arendal, Ketill Berger

Figure SR-P3.
TopTop
10 Global
food retailers.
Figure
SR-P3.
10 Global
food retailers.

However, overall, given the complex socioeconomic contexts, geopolitical and ecological processes in the agricultural and allied sectors, markets tempered with appropriate
state support and regulation can be effective instruments to
address poverty, livelihood needs and income, as well as environmental services and responsibilities of agriculture.
Multifunctional agricultural systems
By definition, the principle of multifunctionality in agriculture refers to agriculture that provides food products for
consumers, livelihoods and incomes for producers and a
range of public and private goods and services for citizens
and the environment, including ecosystem functions. Existing specialization in the global agrifood system, coupled
with government investments and policies in production
and trade has led to a view of agriculture as an exclusively
economic activity, measured in commodity-based, monetary
terms. In the specialized production systems of NAE and
parts of ESAP, CWANA and LAC, the focus on the multiple
roles and functions of agriculture is drawing policy attention largely in response to the scope of possible investments
in indirect support mechanisms, production and trade. In
the relatively less endowed and more diverse farming systems of the world, especially in SSA and large parts of LAC,
ESAP, and CWANA, the multiple functions of agriculture
are being addressed as an important way to reduce the loss
of biodiversity, encourage ecofriendly production systems
and local and traditional knowledge, improve nutrition and
gender relationships in agriculture through diverse production and processing systems and maintain a suite of livelihood options in rural areas.
These region-specific agricultural systems have the potential to be either highly vulnerable or sustainable, due to
the inescapable interconnectedness and tradeoffs between
the different roles and functions of agriculture. Formal
AKST has typically focused on increased specialization of

01-SR.indd 23

commodity production and not on optimizing the outcomes
from dynamically evolving multifunctional systems involving biophysical and socioeconomic components. A challenge that AKST needs to overcome is the lack of research in
geographical, social, ecological, anthropological and other
evolutionary sciences as applied to diverse agricultural ecosystems. These are necessary to devise, improve and create
management options and contribute to multifunctionality
and may help in improving the sustainability of these resources and their effective use in production systems.
The social and cultural implications of livelihood options and of poverty, nutrition, and ecosystem conservation,
whether of highly productive mixed crop-livestock systems
in the wetlands or of low productivity crop-fodder-fiber
and small ruminants systems in the arid areas in SSA, differ from the sociocultural implications of livelihoods and
incomes from commercial production in France and California. Similarly, current subsidies, tariffs and investments
to agriculture in countries like India, China and Japan in
ESAP, and Tunisia and Syria in CWANA, imply different
conditions, interests and capacities to address the tradeoff
between the production and environmental functions of agriculture. As learned from the much contested sugar and
cotton production and trade disputes, relative economic
and environmental vulnerability, differential state support,
agribusiness systems and market regulations determine the
interconnectedness of the economic, social and environmental functions of agriculture. There is increasing recognition
of the multiple roles and functions of agriculture, which can
address environmental sustainability, poverty reduction and
help achieve the elimination of hunger and malnutrition.
The main challenges posed by multifunctional agricultural
systems for AKST are:
•	 How do we support the necessary tradeoffs among increasing the productivity of food and animal feed to
meet changing food habits, and enabling fiber and fuel

11/3/08 12:08:05 PM

24 | IAASTD Synthesis Report

•	

•	
•	
•	

wood production, while satisfying increasing current
and emerging energy demands, as well as environmental and cultural services by agroecosystems?
How do we practically provide clean water, maintain
biodiversity, sustain the natural resource base and decrease the adverse impacts of agricultural activities on
people and the environment?
How do we improve social welfare and personal livelihoods in the agricultural sector, and enhance these economic benefits for the other sectors?
How do we empower marginalized stakeholders to sustain the diversity of agriculture and food systems, including their cultural dimensions?
And how do we increase productivity under marginalized, rainfed lands and incorporate them into local, national and global markets?

Resource use and degradation
Changes in land use have been without exception significant
in all the regions. While more land has been brought under
the plough in SSA over the past two decades than during any
period of human history on the sub-continent, the intensification of production without the expansion of land under
cultivation has been significant in NAE, ESAP and LAC. In
much of CWANA, such expansion is constrained by access
to water. Agriculture has contributed to land degradation
in all the regions; in some regions with input intensive production systems (ESAP, LAC and NAE) the relative share
of agriculture-induced degradation is higher than in other
regions. On average 35% of severely degraded land worldwide is due to agricultural activities.
Poorly defined and enforced property rights over common pool resources (SSA), lack of property rights for women
(CWANA, ESAP, LAC, SSA), and caste and other social hierarchies that limit access to resources (ESAP, LAC, SSA) have
contributed natural resource degradation. Overall population growth, increasing pressure to generate income from
natural resources (using increasingly expensive inputs), and
technological solutions that are blanket recommendations
irrespective of regional variations in resource quality, have
intensified production and extraction processes of crop/commodity production, livestock, fisheries and forestry. As a result, pockets of high-input agriculture in CWANA, ESAP and
LAC as well as the NAE region contribute to the degradation
of soil and water systems and pollution that add to global
warming. These conditions confront limited state capacities
to cope with the effects of climate change in the developing
countries [See Part 2: NRM and Climate Change].
The complex nexus between degradation of natural resources and rural poverty is acknowledged in the drylands of
SSA, South Asia and CWANA, mountain ecosystems of LAC
and coastal ecosystems in all the regions. Despite evidence of
several resource conserving technologies and resource sharing and improving social contracts or institutional arrangements, little effort has been made within mainstream formal
AKST to learn from and apply these lessons to other agroecological systems and societies. Moreover, while declining
water availability and quality, the loss of biodiversity, farmer
access to seeds and local plant and animal genetic resources,
and local capacities to mitigate and adapt to climate change
are discussed in the regions, little effort has thus far been

01-SR.indd 24

made to address the causal factors (such as lack of assured
property rights and tenure laws, absence of incentives for
conservation, and subsidies to address resource constraints)
that support resource exploitative production. Environmental technologies such as integrated pest management, agroforestry, low-input agriculture, conservation tillage, pest
resistant GM crops, and climate change adaptations, have
often faced a policy gridlock with formal AKST, civil society,
the state, private industry and media taking highly polarized
positions. Now as biofuels and plantation agriculture add to
the competition for limited natural resources, the tradeoffs
between production and environmental benefits must be
increasingly scrutinized. The challenge is to maintain and
enhance environmental quality for increased agricultural
production and other goods and services.
Social equity
Worsening income inequality is a serious concern and poses
a significant challenge for agricultural and food systems and
AKST in all the five regions. The uneven distribution of productive natural resources coupled with the lack of access
to resources and fair markets for small-scale producers and
women in agriculture, results in extreme inequality and increasing poverty. While peasants and women cultivators are
uncommon in NAE, millions of poor people and women
in much of CWANA, ESAP, LAC, and SSA contend with
unequal production and market relationships on a daily basis. Current inequality is exacerbated by the fact that NAE
dominates agricultural and rural development resources as
well as formal knowledge generation in AKST. For example,
businesses within NAE have a powerful impact on global
consumer demand; they obtain and profit, directly or indirectly, from commodities, landraces and other valuable genetic resources (stored ex situ in other countries), beneficial
organisms for biocontrol programs, immigrant labor and
have legal and institutional capacities such as intellectual
property rights, standards and market regulations, which
many countries in the developing regions lack.
Landless agricultural labor is at the receiving end of
inequitable distribution of productive resources, production practices and technologies. There is increasing rural to
urban male migration in search of employment in all developing countries. Social security nets and the provision
of non-farm rural or urban employment opportunities are
being attempted by countries along with proactive local employment and income generation programs spearheaded by
the CSOs. However, these programs remain limited in both
scale and scope.
All five regions are acutely conscious of increasing indigence and social exclusion of several indigenous and tribal
peoples. Many of these communities are repositories of
traditional knowledge and fast depleting, but highly valuable knowledge about local ecosystems and processes of
change and management. Much of this knowledge is outside the purview of modern AKST and is increasingly subject to pressure from commercial crop, livestock, fisheries or
forest-based production [See Part II: Traditional and Local
Knowledge]. Within formal AKST systems, little has been
done to acknowledge or address the livelihoods concerns,
technological and development needs of women, labor and
indigenous peoples. Instead, over the past several decades,

11/3/08 12:08:06 PM

Current Conditions, Challenges and Options for Action | 25

AKST and current agricultural development models have
contributed to increasing inequality and the exclusion of
indigenous and tribal peoples.
In LAC and parts of ESAP the selective perception of
production requirements and exclusion of or limited attention given to certain agroecosystems, such as dryland agriculture, coastal fisheries, mountain ecosystems, and pastoral
systems, worsens the inequality already compounded by
local exploitation, rent seeking and corruption, appropriation of resources of the poor—especially common pool resources—and social prejudices like caste and gender biases.
The challenge for development policy and AKST is to develop agricultural and food systems that can reduce income
inequalities and ensure fair access to production inputs and
knowledge to all. Governments and international donors
are now beginning to invest in long-term commitments to
AKST integrated into pro-poor development policies.
AKST—Current constraints, challenges and
opportunities
More than five decades after formal AKST made its entry
into almost all countries, the explicit economic and political
legitimization of investments in AKST remains food security,
livelihoods and poverty reduction in developing countries,
and trade and environmental sustainability in industrialized
countries. While the development models-poverty-environmental degradation nexus is evident in different forms in
different countries, the formal AKST apparatus available to
address these variations is the same in structure, content and
the conduct of science in almost all countries. The AKST
apparatus tends to focus on mainstream, input-intensive,
irrigated monocropping systems—mainly cereals, livestock
and other trade-oriented commodities, to the relative neglect of arid/dryland agriculture, mountain ecosystems, and
other non-mainstream production systems that have been
discussed above. It is important to recognize that this constraint, more or less universal in formal AKST is not incidental, but part of an overall development model in which
scientific knowledge is institutionalized in its utilitarian
role. Resources are allocated to production systems that can
show the highest economic returns to crop/commodity productivity. The capacity of AKST to address the challenges of
poverty, livelihoods, health and nutrition, and environmental quality is conditioned by its capacity to address its own
internal constraints and challenges.
Organized AKST in the form of public sector R&D,
extension and agricultural education across world regions,
are based upon a linear top-down flow of technologies and
information from scientific research to adopters. Despite
increasing polarization of the debate on new technologies,
especially biotechnology and transgenics, and years of wellpublished knowledge on differential access to technologies
and appropriate institutional arrangements, formal AKST
has yet to address the question of democratic technology
choice. AKST as currently organized in public and private
sector does little to interact with academic initiatives in basic biological, ecological and social sciences to design rules,
norms and legal systems for market-oriented innovation and
demand-led technology generation, access and use appropriate for meeting development and sustainability goals.
There is a significant volume of literature from all the

01-SR.indd 25

regions on the high rates of return per unit of investment in
agricultural R&D, especially in crops and in farming systems that have been the focus of the AKST apparatus. Some
of the conditioning factors for high rates of return lie outside agriculture and AKST in complementary investments
such as rural infrastructure or microcredit units that reduce
market transaction costs or provide appropriate institutions
or norms. A rate of return analysis is insufficient for capturing returns to investment that meet development and sustainability goals; other economic and social science methods
are needed for this task.
Declining investments in formal AKST by international
donors and a number of national governments is causing
concern among the developed and developing countries.
Public investments in agricultural R&D continue to grow
although rates have declined during the 1990s. In many
industrialized countries investment has stalled or declined,
while in ESAP countries investments have grown relative to
other regions (annual growth rate of 3.9% in the 1990s).
As a result, ESAP accounts for an increasing share of global
public R&D investment, from 20% in 1981 to 33% in
2000. In contrast to the 1980s, the annual growth rate of
total spending in SSA decreased in the 1990s from 1.3 to
0.8%. A disturbing trend in 26 SSA countries for which time
series data are available is that the public sector spent less
on agricultural R&D in 2000 than a decade earlier. Globally
public sector R&D is becoming increasingly concentrated in
a handful of countries. Among the rich countries, just two,
the USA and Japan, accounted for 54% of public spending
in 2000, and three developing countries, China, India and
Brazil, accounted for 47% of the developing world’s public
agricultural research expenditures. Meanwhile, only 6% of
the agricultural R&D investments worldwide were spent in
80 mostly low-income countries whose combined population in 2000 was more than 600 million people.
In the industrialized countries investment by the private
sector has increased and is now higher than total public
sector investments. In contrast, private sector investment
in developing countries is small and will likely remain so
given weak funding incentives for private research. In 2000,
private firms invested only 6% of total spending in the developing world, of which more than half was invested in
ESAP. Private investment in AKST is, and is likely to remain, largely confined to appropriable technologies, with
intellectual property protection, which can earn significant
revenues in the market.
Currently AKST actors and organizations are not sufficiently able to deal with the challenges ahead because of
the focus on too narrow a set of output goals. The current
knowledge infrastructure, which is oriented toward these
goals, historically has largely excluded ecological, environmental, local and traditional knowledges and the social
sciences. AKST infrastructure will need to encompass and
work with this much broader set of understanding and data
if AKST challenges are to be met. The knowledge infrastructure of AKST is closely allied with particular branches of
economics appropriate for meeting production goals, but to
the relative neglect of other capacities in the economic sciences that are needed to meet AKST challenges.
Meeting the challenges will require a different organizational framework than currently exists in fundamental

11/3/08 12:08:06 PM

26 | IAASTD Synthesis Report

Public and private agricultural R&D spending, selected regions, 2000
billion international dollars (year 2000)

Global total

Higher-income
countries

24

Developing
countries

Distribution of global total

12

12

10

10

8

8

6

6

4

4

2

2

0

0

21

18

Developed, private Developing, public

Developed, public

15

12

Middle East and
North Africa

12

9

6

3

Latin America and
Caribbean

10

12

8

10

Sub-Saharan
Africa

6

8
0

Asia and
Pacific*

4

6

2

4

0

Developing, private

12
10

12

8

10

6

8

4

6

2

4

0

2

2

0

0

Private sector
Public sector
* Asia-Pacific excluding Australia, Japan, and New Zealand.

Source: Pardey et al., 2006b based on Agricultural Science and Technology Indicators (ASTI) data at www.asti.cgiar.org and various other data sources.
Design: UNEP/GRID-Arendal, Ketill Berger

Figure SR-P4. Public and Private Agricultural R&D Spending by Region, 2000.

and applied scientific capability. Breakthroughs in advance
science will not lead to relevant effective and efficient applications that address development and sustainability unless
investments in public, commercial and civil society at local
levels are sustained or increased. The challenges ahead demand a greater focus on management systems—from crop
to whole farm to natural resource area, landscape, river system and catchment scales. Management systems require sophisticated understanding of the institutional dimensions of
management practices and of decision processes that must

01-SR.indd 26

be coordinated across variable spatial, temporal and hierarchical scales. AKST specialists will need a more profound
understanding of the legal and policy frameworks that increasingly will steer agricultural and food system development.
Emerging challenges. In all the regions, there is an overarching concern with poverty and livelihoods among the relatively poor, which are faced with intra- and inter-regional
inequalities. The willingness of different actors, including

11/3/08 12:08:10 PM

Current Conditions, Challenges and Options for Action | 27

those in the state, civil society and private sector, to address the fundamental question of the relationships among
production, social and environmental systems is marred by
contentious political and economic stances adopted by the
different actors. The acknowledgment of current challenges
and the acceptance of options available for action require
a long-term commitment from decision makers that is responsive to specific needs and a wide range of stakeholders.
It calls for a continuing recognition that science, technology, knowledge systems and human ingenuity are needed to
meet future challenges, opportunities and uncertainties.
2. Options for Action
Successfully meeting development and sustainability goals
and responding to new priorities and changing circumstances
will require a fundamental shift in science and technologies,
policies and institutions, as well as capacity development and
investments. Such a shift will recognize and give increased
importance to the multifunctionality of agriculture and
account for the complexity of agricultural systems within
diverse social and ecological contexts. Successfully making
this shift will depend on adapting and reforming existing institutional and organizational arrangements and on further
institutional and organizational development to promote an
integrated approach to AKST development and deployment.
It will further require increased public investment in AKST
and development of supporting policy regimes.
Poverty and livelihoods
Ensuring the development, adaptation and utilization of formal AKST by small-scale farmers requires acknowledging the
inherently diverse conditions in which they live and work.
Hence, formal AKST needs to be informed by knowledge
about farmers’ conditions, opportunities and needs, and by
participatory methodologies that can empower small-scale
producers. The development of more sustainable low-input
practices to improve soil, nutrient and water management
will be particularly critical for communities with limited
access to markets. Enabling resource-poor farmers to link
their own local knowledge to external expert and scientific
knowledge for innovative management of soil fertility, crop
genetic diversity, and natural resources is a powerful tool for
enabling them to capture market opportunities
Technological innovation at the farm level is predicated
upon enabling institutional and legal frameworks and support structures, such as:
•	 Giving producers a voice in the procedures for funding,
designing and executing formal AKST;
•	 Enhancing producer livelihoods though brokered longterm contractual arrangements, through commercial
out-grower schemes or farmer cooperatives. They involve commodity chains that integrate microcredit,
farmer organization, input provision, quality control,
storage, bulking, packaging, transport, etc.;
•	 Investments to generate sustainable employment opportunities for the rural poor, both landless labor and cultivator households, e.g., through enhanced value-added
activity and off-farm employment;
•	 Promoting innovation grounded in interaction among
stakeholders who hold complementary parts of the so-

01-SR.indd 27

lution, e.g., farmers, technical specialists, local government agents, and private input traders.
Though these interactions take place at the decentralized
level, they usually require enabling conditions at higher
levels that include legal frameworks that ensure access and
secure tenure to resources and land, recourse to fair conflict
resolution and other mechanisms for accountability and national policies that support remunerative farm prices.
Policy options to increase domestic farm gate prices for
small-scale producers include:
•	 Fiscal policy (e.g., market feeder roads, postharvest storage facilities and rural value-added agrifood production) to develop infrastructural capacity, and increasing
the percentage of that small-scale farmers receive for
export crops;
•	 Acknowledgment of access to (market and policy) information, farmer-to-farmer exchange, farmer education, and extension as public service and public goods
that provide access to AKST both formal and local. In
LAC, for example, farmer-to-farmer approaches have
proven successful in the adoption of agroecological
practices;
•	 Public/private arrangements that allow producers to sell
through urban supermarkets;
•	 Strengthening producer organizations through investment in travel and meetings, and capacity building and
through creating space for farmer participation in local,
regional and national decision making; and
•	 Capturing preferential trading arrangements.
Farmer Field Schools, Participatory Plant Breeding/Domestication, Farmer Research Groups and similar forms of
interaction in support of farmer-driven agendas have been
shown to have multiple pro-poor benefits, such as enduring
farmer education, empowerment and organizational skills
[see Part II: NRM].
Developments are needed that build trust and that value
farmer knowledge, agricultural and natural biodiversity,
farmer-managed medicinal plants, local seed systems and
common pool resource management regimes. The success
of options implemented locally rests on regional and nationally based mechanisms to ensure accountability.
Food security
Food security is a situation that exists when all people, at
all times, have physical, social and economic access to sufficient, safe and nutritious food that meets their dietary needs
and food preferences for an active and healthy life. Food
sovereignty is defined as the right of peoples and sovereign
states to democratically determine their own agricultural
and food policies.
Using appropriate AKST can contribute to radically
improved food security. It can support efforts to increase
production, enhance the social and economic performance
of agricultural systems as a basis for sustainable rural and
community livelihoods, rehabilitate degraded land, and reduce environmental and health risks associated with food
production and consumption. The following options can
aid in capturing these opportunities to increase sustainable
agricultural production:

11/3/08 12:08:11 PM

28 | IAASTD Synthesis Report

World’s top 10 seed companies
2004 Seed sales (U.S. millions)

Monsanto (USA) + Seminis
(acquired by Monsanto 3/05)
Dupont/Pioneer (USA)
Syngenta (Switzerland)
Groupe Limagrain (France)
KWS AG (Germany)
Land O’ Lakes (USA)
Sakata (Japan)
Bayer Crop Science (Germany)
Takii (Japan)
DLF-Trifolium (Denmark)
0

500

1000

1500

2000

Source: ETC group – Communiqué, September/October 2005; Issue #90

2500

3000

IAASTD. Design: UNEP/GRID-Arendal, Ketill Berger

Figure SR-P5. Global vegetable seed market shares.

•	

•	
•	

•	

•	

Expanding use of local and formal AKST (e.g., conventional breeding, participatory decentralized breeding and biotechnology) to develop and deploy suitable
cultivars (millets, pulses, oilseeds, etc.) and better agronomic practices that can be adapted to site-specific
conditions [CWANA; ESAP; SSA].
Breeding and improvement work on some minor crops
in different subregions.
Improving soil, water and nutrient management and
conservation of biodiversity [CWANA; ESAP; LAC;
SSA; SR Part II: NRM] and improving access to resources (e.g., nutrients and water) [SSA].
Increasing small-scale diversification by enhancing the
role of animal production systems, aquaculture, agroforestry with indigenous fruits and nuts, and insects
[CWANA; ESAP; SSA; Part II: NRM].
Enabling an evaluation culture within AKST with appropriate incentives to assess the past and potential
impacts of technological and institutional changes deployed in the field.

Important to consider when shifting from food crops to
biofuels on the basis of economic feasibility is attention to
the impact of large areas devoted to such crops on food
security and the environment [ESAP, LAC, SSA; SR Part II:
Bioenergy].
Some of the AKST policy options for addressing food
security include:
•	 Mobilizing the productive capacity and sustainability of
rain fed areas;
•	 Addressing price fluctuations and reductions through
market instruments that enable shifting risk away from
vulnerable small-scale producers;
•	 Reducing transaction costs and creating special access rights in regional and global trade for millions
of small-scale producers; social security nets for
women and highly vulnerable indigenous and tribal

01-SR.indd 28

•	

•	

populations to ensure access to affordable and safe
food;
Strengthening local markets by improving the connection between rural areas and cities; food producers and
urban food consumers; and urban and peri-urban agriculture producers and consumers [LAC]; and
Improving food safety and quality through the enforcement of enhanced regulatory and monitoring regimes.

Public sector research has yet to offer a range of viable rural management and agronomic practices for crop and livestock systems that are appropriate for water-restrained dry
lands and poor farmers [CWANA; ESAP; SSA]. Private sector research, concentrated on internationally traded crops,
is less likely to find such projects profitable, at least in the
immediate future. Yet, public funding for such research in
these crops and regions will be necessary if we are to address
the needed changes in organizational and institutional arrangements to respond to the constraints imposed by poor
management systems. Such investments will likely assist in
limiting natural resource degradation and environmental
deterioration, and contribute to decreasing the poverty and
pockets of hunger that currently persist in the midst of prosperity [ESAP].
Environment
•	 Knowledge, science and technology (local and formal). “Business as usual” is not an option if we want
to achieve environmental sustainability. To help realize
this goal, AKST systems must enhance sustainability
while maintaining productivity in ways that protect
the natural resource base and ecological provisioning
of agricultural systems. Options include: Improving energy, water and land use efficiency through the use of
local and formal knowledge to develop and adapt sitespecific technologies that can help maintain, create or
restore soils, increase water use efficiency and reduce

11/3/08 12:08:11 PM

Current Conditions, Challenges and Options for Action | 29

•	

•	

•	

•	

01-SR.indd 29

contamination from agrochemicals [CWANA; ESAP;
Global Chapter 3; LAC; SSA; SR Part II: NRM].
Improving the understanding of soil-plant-water dynamics, that is, ecological processes in soil and bodies
of water and ecological interactions that affect agricultural and other natural resources systems [Global
Chapter 3; LAC; NAE].
Creating and improving management options to support agroecological systems (including landscape mosaics) and the multiple roles and functions of agriculture
with input from ecological and evolutionary science
practitioners, plant geneticists, botanists, molecular biologists, etc. [Global Chapter 3; SR Part II: NRM].
Increasing our knowledge of local and traditional
knowledge to support learning more about options for
sustainable land management and rehabilitation [Global Chapter 3; Part II: NRM].
Enhancing in situ and ex situ conservation of agrobiodiversity through broad participatory efforts to conserve
germplasm and recapture the diversity of plant and animal species traditionally used by local and indigenous
people [Global Chapter 3; LAC; NAE; SSA; SR Part II:
NRM]. Strengthening plant and livestock breeding programs to adapt to emerging demands, local conditions,
and climate change [SSA]. Increasing knowledge and
providing guidelines for the sustainable management of
forest and fisheries and integrating them within farming
systems in such a way to maximize the income and employment generation in rural areas [Global Chapter 3;
SR Part II: NRM]. Democratically evaluating existing
and emerging technologies, such as transgenic crops,
first and second generation biofuels, and nanotechnologies to ascertain their environmental, health and social
impacts [Global Chapter 3; LAC; NAE]. Long-term assessments are needed for technologies that require considerable financial investment and risk to adopters, such
as biotechnology and Green Revolution-type technologies (high external inputs). It is important that impacts
and applications of alternative technologies are also examined and that independent comparative assessments
(i.e., comparing transgenic with currently available
agroecological approaches such as biological control)
are conducted. Improving the understanding of the
agroecological functioning of mosaics of crop production areas and natural habitats, to determine how these
can be co-managed to reduce conflicts and enhance positive synergies. Promoting more diverse systems of local
crop production at farm and landscape scale, to create
more diverse habitats for wild species/ecological communities and for the provision of ecosystem services.
This will require institutional innovations to enable efficient marketing systems to handle diversified production. Establishing decentralized, locally based, highly
efficient energy systems and energy efficient agriculture
to improve livelihoods and reduce carbon emissions
[ESAP; LAC]. AKST can contribute to the development of economically feasible biofuels and biomaterials
that have a positive energy and environmental balance
and that will not compromise the world food supply
[Global Chapter 3; NAE; SR Part II: Bioenergy, NRM].
Developing strategies to counter the effects of agricul-

ture on climate change and strategies to mitigate the
negative impacts of climate change on agriculture [Global Chapter 3; SR Part II: NRM].
Reducing agricultural emissions of greenhouse gases will
require changes to farming and livestock systems and
practices throughout the food system [NAE; LAC] as well
as land use changes to achieve net carbon sequestration.
Better agronomic practices, especially in livestock and rice
production, such as conservation agriculture, less water
consuming cultivation methods, and improved rangeland
management, feeding of ruminants and manure management, can substantially reduce GHG emissions and possibly
increase C sequestration [CWANA; ESAP]. Agroecological
methods, agroforestry, and the breeding of salt-tolerant varieties can help mitigate the impacts of climate change on
agriculture [ESAP; LAC; SSA; SR Part II: Climate change].
Although knowledge in these areas already exists, it is important to analyze why this knowledge is not applied more
often.
Policies and institutional frameworks. Options need to reflect the goals of sustainable development and the multiple
functions of agriculture, being particularly attentive to the
interface between institutions and the adoption of AKST
and its impacts. To be effective in terms of development and
sustainability, these policies and institutional changes should
be directed primarily at those who have been served least by
previous AKST approaches, i.e., resource-poor farmers.
Policies that promote sustainable agricultural practices,
e.g., using market and other mechanisms to regulate and
generate rewards for agro/environmental services, stimulate
more rapid adoption of AKST for better natural resource
management and enhanced environmental quality should
be considered to promote more sustainable development
[Global]. Some examples of sustainable initiatives are policies designed to:
•	 Reduce agrochemical inputs (particularly pesticides and
synthetic fertilizers);
•	 Use energy, water and land more efficiently (not only as
in precision agriculture, but also as in agroecology);
•	 Diversify agricultural systems;
•	 Use agroecological management approaches; and
•	 Coordinate biodiversity and ecosystem service management policies with agricultural policies [CWANA;
ESAP; Global Chapter 3; LAC].
•	 Internalize the environmental cost of unsustainable
practices [ESAP; Global Chapter 3; LAC; NAE] and
avoid those that promote the wasteful use of inputs
(pesticides and fertilizers);
•	 Ensure the fair compensation of ecosystem services
[CWANA; ESAP; Global; LAC; NAE; SSA];
•	 Regulate environmentally damaging practices and develop capacities for institutional changes that ensure
monitoring and evaluation of compliance mechanisms
[ESAP; Global].
•	 Facilitate and provide incentives for alternative markets such as green products, certification for sustainable forest and fisheries practices and organic agriculture [CWANA; ESAP; Global; LAC; NAE; SSA] and
the strengthening of local markets including enhancing

11/3/08 12:08:12 PM

30 | IAASTD Synthesis Report

•	

•	

intra-region links between rural producers and urban
consumers [LAC];
Enable resource resource-poor farmers to use their traditional and local technical knowledge to manage soil
fertility, crop and livestock genetic diversity and conserve natural resource (e.g., microcredit for transitioning toward agroecological practices, processing, and
production) to make them sustainable and economically viable;
Adjust intellectual property rights (IPR) and related
framework to allow farmers to managed their seeds and
germplasm resources as they wish.

To achieve more sustainable management, institutional and
socioeconomic measures are required for the widespread
adoption of sustainable practices. Long-term land and water
use rights (e.g., land and tree tenure), risk reduction measures (safety nets, credit, insurance, etc.) and establishing
profitability of recommended technologies are prerequisites
for adoption. For resources with common pool characteristics, common property regimes are needed that most likely
will be developed by rural communities and supported
by appropriate state institutions. Farmers need guaranteed
long-term access to the resources necessary for the implementation of culturally and technically appropriate sustainable
practices [Global Chapter 3]. Also needed are new modes
of governance that emphasize participatory and democratic
approaches and require the development of innovative local
networks. Institutional reforms, too, are needed to enable
formal AKST to partner effectively with small-scale producers, women, pastoralists, and indigenous and tribal peoples
who are sources of environmental knowledge. Stakeholder
monitoring of environmental quality can help develop production technologies and environmental services [ESAP;
Global Chapter 3].
Given existing and increasing conflicts over natural resources and environmental insecurity (e.g., disputes over
fishing rights, water sharing, climate change mitigation),
policies, agreements and treaties that promote regional and
international cooperation can assist in realizing the development and sustainability goals. Conflict resolution systems
for managing conservation programs, monitoring pest and
disease incidence, and monitoring development and compliance mechanisms would also help in realizing these goals
[ESAP; Global Chapter 3].
There is significant scope for AKST and supporting policies to contribute to more sustainable fisheries and aquaculture that can contribute to reducing overfishing. Yet many
governments still struggle to translate guidelines and policies into effective interventions able to provide an ecosystem approach to fisheries management. At the least policies
are needed to end subsidies that encourage unsustainable
practices (e.g., bottom trawling). Small-scale fisheries need
explicit support and the promotion of increased awareness
of sustainable fishing practices and postharvest technologies, as well as policies that reduce industrial scale fishing.
Implications of increased aquaculture production (e.g., loss
of coastal habitats, increased antibiotic use, etc.), and catch
fisheries should also be considered.
Regardless of the differing opinions about transgenics in the regions, all Sub-Global reports recognized the

01-SR.indd 30

importance of assessing both the potential environmental,
health and social impacts of any new technology, and the
appropriate implementation of regulatory frameworks as a
principled matter of precaution. Particular concerns exist regarding potential genetic contamination in centers of origin
[See SR Part II: Biotechnology].
The formal AKST system is not well equipped to promote the transition toward sustainability. Current ways of
organizing technology generation and diffusion will be increasingly inadequate to address emerging environmental
challenges, the multifunctionality of agriculture, the loss of
biodiversity, and climate change. Focusing AKST systems
and actors on sustainability requires a new approach and
worldview to guide the development of knowledge, science and technology as well as the policies and institutional
changes to enable their sustainability. It also requires a new
approach in the knowledge base; the following are important options:
•	 The revalorization of traditional and local knowledge
[CWANA; ESAP; Global; LAC; NAE; SSA] and their
interaction with formal science;
•	 An interdisciplinary (social, biophysical, political and
legal), holistic and system-based approaches to knowledge production and sharing [CWANA; ESAP; Global;
LAC; NAE; SSA].
Health and nutrition
The inter-linkages between health, nutrition, agriculture and
AKST can constrain or facilitate reaching development and
sustainability goals. Because multiple stressors affect these
inter-linkages, a broad agroecosystem health approach is
needed to identify appropriate AKST to increase food security and safety, decrease the incidence and prevalence of
a range of infectious and chronic diseases, and decrease occupational exposures, injuries, and deaths.
Food security strategies require a combination of AKST
approaches, including:
•	 Increasing the diversification of small-scale production
and improve micronutrient intake;
•	 Increasing the efficiency and diversity of urban agriculture;
•	 Developing and deploying existing and new technologies for the production, processing, preservation, and
distribution of food.
Food safety can be facilitated by effective, coordinated, and
proactive national and international food safety systems,
including:
•	 Enhancing public health and veterinary capacity, and
legislative frameworks, for identification and control of
biological and non-biological hazards;
•	 Vertical integration of the food chain to reduce the risks
of contamination and alteration;
•	 Supporting the capacity of developing country governments, municipalities, and civil society organizations to
develop systems for monitoring and controlling health
risks along the entire food chain. One example is a
battery of tests that municipalities could use to monitor pesticide residues on fruits and vegetables that are
brought to market.

11/3/08 12:08:12 PM

Current Conditions, Challenges and Options for Action | 31

•	

Developing a system of global, national, and local
AKST that can monitor developments and inform adequate and timely responses to the rapid evolution of
pathogens.

The burden of emerging and reemerging diseases can be decreased by:
•	 Strengthening coordination between and the capacity of
agricultural, veterinary, and public health systems;
•	 Integrating multi-sectoral policies and programs across
the food chain to reduce the spread of infectious diseases;
•	 Developing and deploying new AKST to identify, monitor, control, and treat diseases; and
•	 Developing a system of global, national, and local
AKST that can monitor developments and inform adequate and timely responses to the rapid evolution of
pathogens and zoonotic outbreaks.
The burden of chronic diseases can be decreased by:
•	 Regulating food product formulation through legislation, international agreements and/or regulations for
food labeling and health claims; and
•	 Creating incentives for the production and consumption of health-promoting foods.
Occupational health can be improved by:
•	 Developing and enforcing agriculture health and safety
regulations;
•	 Enforcing cross-border issues such as illegal use of toxic
agrichemicals; and
•	 Conducting health risk assessments that make explicit
the trade-offs between maximizing benefits to livelihoods, the environment, and improving health.
Policies and institutional frameworks. Trends in the current
burdens of the health risks associated with agriculture and
AKST call for robust detection, surveillance, monitoring,
and response systems to facilitate identification of the true
burden of ill health and implementation of cost-effective,
health-promoting strategies and measures. Persistent and
substantial investment in capacity building are required to
provide safe food of sufficient quantity, quality, and variety;
reduce the burdens of obesity, other chronic diseases, and
infectious diseases; and reduce agriculture-related environmental and occupational risks.
Equity
Science and technology (local and formal). Historically, formal AKST has privileged farmers with access to resources,
services, capital and markets (e.g., men and non-indigenous
groups), often creating greater inequalities in the rural sector. Additionally poor and marginalized groups have suffered disproportionately from environmental degradation
[CWANA; LAC; SSA]. To acknowledge the distributional
impact of AKST investments calls for conscious public policy choices to invest in AKST that addresses the needs of
small-scale producers and improves equity [Global Chapters 3, 7]. This strategy recognizes that the short-term dollar
rates of return may not as high as those of other investments

01-SR.indd 31

but that they can make a significant contribution to longterm poverty reduction.
For AKST to contribute to greater equity, investments
are required for the development of appropriate technologies; access to education and research participation; new
partnerships with a wider network of stakeholders; and
models of learning, technology extension and facilitation
for the poor and marginalized. Such investments are likely
to improve access to sustainable technologies, credit and institutions (including property rights and tenure security) as
well as to local, national, and regional markets for agricultural outputs [SR Part II: NRM].
Both formal and local AKST can add value to the full
range of agricultural goods and services and help create
economic instruments that promote an appropriate balance
between private and public goods. At the farm, watershed,
district and national scales, new methods may be needed to
assess and improve the performance of farming systems in
relation to the multiple functions of agriculture. Such efforts need to include a special emphasis on integrated water
resource management for CWANA countries and other arid
regions, and integrated soil management for SSA and other
regions with highly degraded soils.
An environment in which formal science and technology and local and traditional knowledge are seen as part of
an integral AKST system is most likely to increase equitable
access to technologies to a broad range of producers [Global
3; SR Part II: NRM]. Options to improve this integration
include moving away from a linear technology transfer approach that benefited relatively well-off producers of major
cash crops but had little success for small-scale diversified
farms and poor and marginalized groups and paid little attention to the multifunctionality of agriculture. Improvements are needed in engaging farmers in priority setting
and funding decisions, and both in increasing collaboration
with social scientists, and increasing participatory work in
the core research institutions. Networks among small-scale
producers contribute to the exchange of experience and
AKST, as do inter- and multidisciplinary programs, crossdisciplinary learning and scientific validation, involving
both research and non-research actors, and recognizing the
cultural identity of indigenous communities.
Alternatives to traditional extension models include
farmer field schools [SSA] and the Campesino a Campesino
(Farmer to Farmer) Movement in LAC. However, such an
integrated approach is unlikely to be embraced without
complementary activities including developing in-country
professional capacity for undertaking integrated approaches,
methods for monitoring and evaluating these approaches,
and ensuring a professional system that rewards participatory research in the top academic journals. A complementary option is to facilitate internal institutional learning and
evaluation in AKST organizations, particularly as regards
their impact on equity.
Policies and institutional frameworks. Key issues for improved
performance include equitable access to and use of natural

resources, systems of incentives and rewards for multifunctionality, including ecosystem services, and responding to
the vulnerability of farming communities. Governance in
AKST and related organizations are also important for the

11/3/08 12:08:13 PM

32 | IAASTD Synthesis Report

crucial role they play in democratization, decentralization and
the integration of farmer concerns in the design of farmer
services and agricultural industries. For example,
•	 AKST can assess IPR in terms of multifunctionality, consider issues of collective IPR and other non-IPR mechanisms such as prizes, cross-licensing and other means
able to facilitate research and improve equity among
regions. Legal frameworks can promote recognition of
traditional knowledge associated with genetic resources
and the equitable distribution of benefits derived there
from among the custodians of these resources [Global
Chapter 3]. Policies, including legal frameworks that
regulate access to genetic resources and the equitable
distribution of benefits generated by their use, can be
implemented in ways that guarantee local communities
access and the right to regulate the access of others. To
date it is recognized that many poor regions bear the
costs of protecting biodiversity and agricultural genetic
diversity yet it is the global community who benefits
from these practices. Thus, new national and international legal frameworks, in tandem with the development of institutions for benefit sharing, can ensure that
local communities and individual countries control access to and benefit from local genetic resources as promoted in the Convention on Biological Diversity and
as agreed in the International Treaty on Plant Genetic
Resources for Food and Agriculture through its multilateral system of Access and Benefit Sharing.
•	 Large inequities in the tenure and access to land and
water have exacerbated economic inequalities that still
characterized many world regions in the world (e.g.,
LAC, SSA). Land reform, including improved tenure
systems and equitable access to water are suggestive
means to support sustainable management and simultaneously respond to social inequalities that inhibit economic development. Such initiatives are likely to reduce
the displacement of small-scale farmers, campesinos
and indigenous people to urban centers or to marginal
lands in the agricultural frontier. Better understanding
of the communal ownership, communal exchange and
innovation mechanisms is needed. Overlapping formal
and informal land rights that characterize some agricultural systems are central to strategies to reform land
holdings and relations.
•	 In order to enhance a proper environment in which
AKST contribute positively to development and sustainability goals, global equity can be enhanced by protecting small-scale farmers from unfair competition including from often subsidized commodities produced under
conditions of economies of scale. Reasonable farm gate
prices through equitable and fair access to markets
and trade also are crucial for ensuring rural employment as well as improving livelihoods and food security.
Such prices for small-scale holders can be achieved by
eliminating commodity OECD agricultural subsidies to
large industrialized farmers and dumping, and by not
overexposing small-scale farmers to competition from
industrial farmers before appropriate institutional
frameworks and infrastructure are in place. They are
also a condition for effective utilization of AKST. At

01-SR.indd 32

•	

•	

•	

•	

the national and international level, governance mechanisms to respond to unfair competition and agribusiness accountability need to be implemented through,
for example, anti-trust laws applied to financial institutions and the agrifood sector. One option might include
creating or strengthening conditions that can guarantee
farmers’ rights to choose, select, and exchange seeds
that are culturally and locally appropriate as well as
to remove the monopoly from the privileges granted to
breeders through Plant Breeders Rights through, for example, a compensatory liability regime.
Global equity can be enhanced by improving smallscale farmers’ access to international markets. The current trade environment in which agricultural subsidies
and a history of public support to farming distort international prices for many key commodities can benefit
from initiatives such as fair trade, organic certification,
and sustainable timber certification. However, many
schemes require additional skills that poorer farmers
may have yet to access. In such circumstances, AKST
can provide the training and support necessary to assist
small-scale farmers in entering such markets.
A direct connection between farmers and urban consumers (e.g., direct marketing and community-supported agriculture initiatives) can decrease the gap between the rural and urban sector and be of benefit to
poor urban consumers. This can be accomplished by
strengthening services, access to urban markets, centralized quality control, packaging and marketing to supply
urban markets in the rural sector and particularly for
small-scale producers. This approach is more likely to
succeed if national farmers associations and their federations increase their role in national politics. AKST
may also contribute to the development of urban and
peri-urban agriculture focusing on the poorest urban
sectors [LAC] as a means to enhance equity strengthen
community organizations, support improved health,
and promote food security as well as food sovereignty.
When addressing issues of equity with respect to access
to food, nutrition, health and a healthy environment,
stakeholders can make use of established international
treaties, agreements and covenants. For example the issue of hunger eradication can be supported by engaging
the right to food as enshrined in Article 11 of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural
Rights of the United Nations. This legal instrument,
together with the International Covenants of Civil and
Political Rights, is essential for putting into practice the
principles set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In a culture of rights, states are obligated to
take deliberate, concrete and non-discriminatory measures to eradicate hunger. To date, 146 countries are currently party to this covenant and 187 have signed the
FAO Council’s “voluntary guidelines for the progressive realization of the right to adequate food” [LAC].
Despite their major and increasing contribution to agricultural production in several regions, particularly
CWANA, LAC and SSA, women are marginalized with
respect to access to education, extension services, and
property rights, and are under-represented in agricultur-

11/3/08 12:08:13 PM

Current Conditions, Challenges and Options for Action | 33

•	

•	

al science and technology teaching and development and
extension services [Global Chapter 3]. Some womenoriented strategies, particularly increasing the functional
literacy and general education levels of women, have already been proven to increase the likelihood of reaching development and sustainability goals [SSA and other
regions]. Other actions, though not yet proven, include
the reorientation of policies and programs to increase the
participation and physical presence of women in leadership, decision-making, and implementation positions.
Specific actions to mainstream women’s involvement include encouraging women by generating stimuli and opportunities to study agricultural sciences and economics, and also to ensure that activities such as extension,
data collection, and enumeration involve women as
providers as well as recipients. Farmer research groups,
too, have proven more successful in reaching women
farmers than traditional extension activities [SSA] suggesting that similar approaches may be needed to incorporate marginalized groups—the landless, pastoralists,
and seasonal and longer-term migrants—into education
and policy making institutions.
Participation in and democratization of AKST processes helps to integrate sectors (i.e., developing networks),
which have been excluded [Global Chapter 3]. These
processes include improved access to information and
institutional support to and the development of education and training in ways that incorporate the participation of civil society as ones means to guarantee
transparency and accountability. A key point is helping
youth to become involved in agriculture and of making
it an attractive work activity compared with urban possibilities. Long-term investment in farmer education,
especially for women and youth, the empowerment of
farmers as vocal partners in business and IPR development and other legal framework, and strengthening
civil society organizations.
Improving equity requires synergy among various development actors, including farmers, agricultural workers, banks, civil society organizations, commercial companies, and public agencies [Global Chapter 3]. Stakeholder involvement is also crucial in decisions about
infrastructure, tariffs, and the internalization of social
and environmental costs. Women and other historically
marginalized actors (local/indigenous community members, farm workers, etc.) need to have an active role in
problem identification (determining research questions,
extension objectives, etc.) and policy and project design. New modes of governance to develop innovative
local networks and decentralized government, focusing
on small-scale producers and the urban poor (urban agriculture) will help to create and strengthen synergetic
and complementary capacities [LAC].

Investments
The contribution of AKST to the achievement of development and sustainability goals would entail increased funds
and more diverse funding mechanisms for agricultural research and development and associated knowledge systems.
These could include:

01-SR.indd 33

•	

•	

•	

•	

Public investments to serve global, regional and local
public goods, addressing strategic issues such as food
security and safety, climate change and sustainability
that do not attract private funding. More efficient use of
increasingly scarce land, water and biological resources
would need public investment in legal and management
capabilities.
Public investment to support effective change in agricultural knowledge systems directed to:
–	 promote interactive knowledge networks (associating farmers, farmers communities, scientists, industrial and actors in other knowledge areas) and
improve access for all actors to information and
communication technologies;
–	 support ecological, evolutionary, food, nutrition,
social and complex systems’ sciences and the promotion of effective interdisciplinarity;
–	 establish capacities and facilities to offer life-long
learning opportunities to those involved in the agrifood arena.
Public-private partnerships for improved commercialization of applied knowledge and technologies and joint
funding of AKST, where market risks are high and where
options for widespread utilization of knowledge exists;
Adequate incentives and rewards to encourage private
and civil society investments in AKST contributing to
development and sustainability goals.

There are many options to target investments to contribute to the development and sustainability goals. Options
have to be examined with high consideration of local and
regional, social, political and environmental contexts, addressing goals such as:
•	 Poverty, livelihoods and food security. AKST investments can increase the sustainable productivity of major subsistence foods including orphan crops that are
grown and/or consumed by the poor. Investments could
also be targeted for institutional change and policies
that can improve access of poor people to food, land,
water, seeds, germplasm and improved technologies,
particularly in value chain addition technologies such
as quality processing of agricultural products
•	 Environmental sustainability. Increased investments are
needed in AKST that can improve the sustainability of
agricultural systems and reduce their negative environmental effects with particular attention to alternative
production systems, e.g., organic and low-input systems;
reduce greenhouse gas emissions from agricultural practices; reduce the vulnerability of agroecological systems
to the projected changes in climate and climate variability (e.g., breeding for temperature and pest tolerance);
understanding the relationship between ecosystem services provided by agricultural systems and their relationships to human well-being; economic and non-economic
valuation of ecosystem services; improving water use
efficiency and reducing water pollution; developing
biocontrols of current and emerging pests and pathogens, and biological substitutes for agrochemicals; and
reducing the dependency of the agricultural sector on
fossil fuels.

11/3/08 12:08:13 PM

34 | IAASTD Synthesis Report

•	

•	

01-SR.indd 34

Human health and nutrition. Major public and private
AKST investments will be needed to contribute to: the
reduction of chronic diseases through scientific programs and legislation related to healthy diets and food
product formulations; the improvement of food safety
regulations in an increasingly commercialized and globalized food industry; the control and management of
infectious diseases, through the development of new
vaccines, global surveillance, monitoring and response
systems and effective legal frameworks. In addition, investments are needed in science and legislation covering occupational health issues such as pesticide use and
safety regulations (including child labor laws).
Equity. Preferential investments in equitable development, as in literacy, education and training, that contribute to reducing ethnic, gender, and other inequities
would advance the development and sustainability
goals. Measurements of returns to investments require
indices that give more information than GDP, and that
are sensitive to environmental and equity gains. The use

of inequality indices for screening AKST investments
and monitoring outcomes strengthens accountability.
The Gini-coefficient could, for example, become a public criterion for policy assessment, in addition to the
more conventional measures of growth, inflation and
environment.
In many developing countries, it may be necessary to complement these investments with increased and more targeted
investments in rural infrastructure, education and health
and to strengthen capacity in core agricultural and related
sciences.
In the face of new global challenges, there is a urgent
need to strengthen, restructure and possibly establish new
intergovernmental, independent science-based networks to
address such issues as climate forecasting for agricultural
production; human health risks from emerging diseases
such as avian flu; reorganization of livelihoods in response
to changes in agricultural systems (population movements);
food security; and global forestry resources.

11/3/08 12:08:14 PM

Part II: Themes

Bioenergy

Writing team: Patrick Avato (Germany/Italy), Rodney J. Brown
(USA), Moses Kairo (Kenya)

section. Aspects that are crosscutting are discussed in a separate section.

Bioenergy has recently received considerable public attention. Rising costs of fossil fuels, concerns about energy
security, increased awareness of climate change, domestic
agricultural interests and potentially positive effects for economic development all contribute to its appeal for policy
makers and private investors. Bioenergy as defined in the
IAASTD covers all forms of energy derived from biomass,
e.g., plants and plant-derived materials. Bioenergy is categorized as traditional or modern, depending on the history
of use and technological complexity. Traditional bioenergy
includes low technology uses including direct combustion of
firewood, charcoal or animal manure for heat generation.
Modern bioenergy is comprised of electricity, light and heat
produced from solid, liquid or gasified biomass and liquid
biofuels for transport. Liquid biofuels for transport can be
categorized as first generation, produced from starch, sugar
or oil containing agricultural crops, or next generation.
Next generation (also referred to as second, third or fourth
generation) biofuels are produced from a variety of biomass
materials, e.g., specially grown energy crops, agricultural
and forestry residues and other cellulosic material [CWANA
Chapter 2; Global Chapters 3, 6; NAE Chapter 4].
As biomass feedstocks are widely available, bioenergy
offers an attractive complement to fossil fuels and thus has
potential to alleviate concerns of a geopolitical and energy security nature. However, only a small part of globally available biomass can be exploited in an economically,
environmentally and socially sustainable way. Currently,
about 2.3% of global primary energy is supplied by modern
sources of bioenergy such as ethanol, biodiesel, or electricity
and industrial process heat [Global Chapter 3].
The economics of bioenergy, and particularly the positive or negative social and environmental externalities, vary
strongly, depending on the source of biomass, type of conversion technology and on local circumstances and institutions. Many questions in development of bioenergy will
require further research. Agricultural knowledge, science,
and technology (AKST) can play a critical role in improving
benefits and reducing potential risks and costs but complementary efforts are needed in the areas of policies, capacity
building, and investment to facilitate a socially, economically, and environmentally sustainable food, feed, fiber, and
fuels economy. Specific options and challenges associated
with the different categories are discussed in the following

Traditional Bioenergy
Millions of people in developing countries depend on traditional biofuels for their most basic cooking and heating
needs (e.g., wood fuels in traditional cook stoves or charcoal). Dependence on traditional bioenergy is highly correlated with low income levels and is most prevalent in
sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia due to a lack of affordable alternatives. In some countries, the share of biomass in
energy consumption can reach up to 90%. Within countries,
the use of biomass is heavily skewed toward the lowest income groups and rural areas [CWANA Chapter 2; Global
Chapter 3; SSA Chapter 2].
Reliance on traditional bioenergy can stifle development
by posing considerable environmental, health, economic
and social challenges. Traditional biomass is usually associated with time consuming and unsustainable harvesting,
hazardous pollution and low end-use efficiency, and in the
case of manure and agricultural residues depletion of soil by
removal of organic matter and nutrients. Collecting fuel is
time-consuming, reducing the time that can be devoted to
productive uses including farming and education. Air pollution from biomass combustion leads to asthma and other
respiratory problems which lead to 1.5 million premature
deaths per year7 [Global Chapter 3; SSA Chapter 2]. Efforts
in the past at making available improved and more efficient
traditional bioenergy technologies (e.g., improved cook
stoves) have led to mixed results. New and improved efforts and approaches are therefore needed that build on and
expand these efforts. Moreover, other options must be explored to expand the availability and use of modern energy
solutions. Such technologies differ widely from each other
in terms of economic, social and environmental implications
and may include fossil fuels, extensions of electricity grids,
and forms of distributed energy including modern forms of
bioenergy (see section on bioelectricity and bioheat).
First Generation Biofuels
First generation biofuels consist today predominantly of
bioethanol and biodiesel, even though other fuels such as
methanol, propanol and butanol may play a larger role in
the future. Produced from agricultural crops such as maize
This number includes deaths caused by the combustion of coal
in the homestead.

8

35

01-SR.indd 35

11/3/08 12:08:14 PM

36 | IAASTD Synthesis Report

From biomass to energy consumption
Biomass
feedstock
Biomass waste
and residues
(e.g. biogases,
straw, municipal
solid waste, dung)

Conversion
technology

Agricultural
crops
(e.g. sugar cane,
maize, palmoil)

Bioenergy
consumption
Direct
combustion

Anaerobic
digestion
Biofuels

Fermentation

Bioelectricity

Pyrolysis
Energy crops
(e.g. jatropha,
switchgrass,
poplar, algae)

Natural
vegetation
(e.g. woods,
grasses)

Microbial
digestion
Esterification

Bioheat
Saccharification

IAASTD. Design: UNEP/GRID-Arendal, Ketill Berger

Figure SR-BE1. From biomass to energy consumption

Figure SR-BE1. From biomass to energy consumption.

and other grains, sugar cane, soybeans, cassava, rapeseed,
and oil palm, production of bioethanol and biodiesel has
been growing fast in recent years, albeit from a low base—
together they contributed about 1% of global transport fuels
in 2005. Fast growth rates are mainly due to biofuel support
policies that have been developed in many countries around
the world in the hope of furthering rural job creation and
economic development, mitigating climate change and improving energy security [ESAP Chapter 4; NAE Chapter 2;
SSA Chapter 2].
The most important factors determining economic competitiveness of first generation biofuels are (1) price of feedstock, (2) value of byproducts, (3) conversion technology,
and (4) price of competing fuels. Each of these variables
varies over time and place. Currently first generation biofuels are economically competitive with fossil fuels only in the
most efficient feedstock producer markets during times of
favorable market conditions, e.g., in Brazil when feedstock
prices are low and fossil fuel prices high. Consistently high
oil prices at levels seen in the recent past would improve economic competitiveness also in other regions. The economics
of liquid biofuels may be more favorable in remote regions
where energy access and agricultural exports are complicated by high transport costs. Land-locked developing countries, islands, and remote regions within countries may fall
into this category if they can make available sufficient and
cheap feedstock without threatening food security [Global
Chapters 3, 6; NAE Chapter 4].
In addition to these economic factors, the value of 1st
generation biofuels is also affected by energy security concerns and environmental and social benefits and costs. From
an environmental perspective, there is considerable debate
over whether first generation biofuels, especially bioethanol,
yield more energy than is needed for their production and
their level of greenhouse gas emissions. Both issues are related
and the debate is caused by differences in life cycle emissions

01-SR.indd 36

measurement methodologies and the strong effect of specific local circumstances, such as type of feedstock, original
use of agricultural land, mechanization of production and
fertilizer use. Generally, assuming feedstocks are produced
on agricultural land and do not induce deforestation, crops
produced with few external inputs (fertilizers, pesticides,
etc.), such as rain fed sugarcane in Brazil, perform significantly better than high-input crops such as maize in North
America. Consequently, whether biofuels are a viable option
for climate change mitigation depends on the emissions reductions that can realistically be achieved as well as relative
costs compared to other mitigation alternatives. Apart from
GHG considerations, considerable environmental costs may
be associated with large increases in biofuels production.
For example, it is feared that the increased demand for limited agricultural production factors (e.g., land and water)
will lead to a conversion of pristine biodiverse ecosystems to
agricultural land (e.g., deforestation) and depletion of water
resources—instances of this happening are already apparent
in different regions, e.g., draining of peat land in Indonesia
and clearing of the Cerrado in Brazil [Global Chapters 4, 6;
NAE Chapter 4].
The related social and economic effects are complex.
Increased demand can lead to higher incomes for those engaged in feedstock production and ancillary industries such
as biofuels conversion or processing of biofuel by-products
(e.g., cakes), potentially contributing to economic development. Conversely, competition for limited land and water resources inevitably leads to higher food prices hurting buyers
of food, including food processing and livestock industries
and—very importantly with regard to hunger and social
sustainability—poor people. Moreover, small-scale farmers may be marginalized or pushed off their lands if they
are not protected and brought into production schemes.
In the medium to long term the effects on food prices may
decrease as economies react to higher prices (adapting pro-

11/3/08 12:08:15 PM

Themes: Bioenergy | 37

duction patterns and inducing investments) and technologies improve. Consequently, the social and economic effects
have strong distributional impacts within societies, between
different stakeholders and over time. Institutional arrangements strongly influence the distribution of these effects,
e.g., between small and large producers and between men
and women [Global Chapter 6].
In addition to the direct effects of biofuel production,
policies employed to promote them create their own costs
and benefits. As first generation biofuels have rarely been
economically competitive with petroleum fuels, production
in practically all countries is promoted through a complex
set of subsidies and regulations. In addition to the direct
budgetary costs of such subsidies, policies in most countries contain market distortions such as blending mandates,
trade restrictions and tariffs that create costs through inefficiencies. This undermines an efficient allocation of biofuel
production in the countries with the largest potential and
cheapest costs and creates costs for consumers.
Liberalizing biofuel trade through the reduction of trade
restrictions and changes in the trade classification of ethanol and biodiesel would promote a more efficient allocation
of production in those countries that have a comparative
advantage in feedstock production and fuel conversion,
respectively. However, it is not clear how resource-poor
small-scale farmers could benefit from this. Moreover, unless environmental and social sustainability is somehow ensured, negative effects such as deforestation, unsustainable
use of marginal lands and marginalization of small-scale
farmers risk being magnified. Sustainability standards and
voluntary approaches are the most frequently discussed options for ensuring socially and environmentally sustainable
biofuel production. However, there is currently no international consensus on what such schemes should encompass, whether they could effectively improve sustainability
or even whether they should be developed at all [Global
Chapter 7].
AKST can play a role in improving the balance of social, environmental and economic costs and benefits, albeit
within limits. R&D on increasing biofuel yields per hectare
while reducing agricultural input requirements by optimizing cropping methods, breeding higher yielding crops and
employing local plant varieties offers considerable potential.
Both conventional breeding and genetic engineering are being employed to further enhance crop characteristics such
as starch, sugar, cellulose or oil content to increase fuelproducing capacity [Global Chapter 6]. A variety of crops
and cropping methods in different countries are believed to
hold large yield potential, each adapted to specific environments, but more research is needed to develop this potential.
Next Generation Biofuels
The development of new biofuel conversion technologies,
so-called next generation biofuels, has significant potential. Cellulosic ethanol and biomass-to-liquids (BTL) technologies, the two most prominent technologies, allow the
conversion into biofuels not only of the glucose and oils
retrievable today but also of cellulose, hemi-cellulose and
even lignin—the main building blocks of most biomass.
Thereby, more abundant and potentially cheaper feedstocks
such as residues, stems and leaves of crops, straw, urban

01-SR.indd 37

wastes, weeds and fast growing trees could be converted
into biofuels. Further in the future is the possibility of using sources, such as algae or cyanobacteria intensively cultivated in ponds or bioreactors in saline water using industrial
carbon dioxide. Research is also focusing on integrating the
production of next generation biofuels with the production
of chemicals, materials and electricity. These so-called biorefineries could improve production efficiency, GHG balances
and process economics.
On the one hand, the wide variety of potential feedstocks and high conversion efficiencies of next generation
biofuels could dramatically reduce land requirements per
unit of energy produced, thus mitigating the food price and
environmental pressures of first generation biofuels. Moreover, lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions could be reduced
relative to first generation biofuels. On the other hand, there
are concerns about unsustainable harvesting of agricultural
and forestry residues and the use of genetically engineered
crops and enzymes. However, as next generation biofuels
are still nascent technologies, these economic, social and
environmental costs and benefits are still very uncertain
[Global Chapters 6, 7; NAE Chapter 4].
Several critical steps have to be overcome before next
generation biofuels can become an economically viable
source of transport fuels. It is not yet clear when these breakthroughs will occur and what degree of cost reductions they
will be able to achieve in practice. Moreover, while some
countries like South Africa, Brazil, China and India may
have the capacity to actively engage in advanced domestic
biofuels R&D efforts, high capital costs, large economies of
scale, a high degree of technical sophistication and IPR issues make the production of next generation biofuels problematic in the majority of developing countries, even if the
technological and economic hurdles can be overcome in industrialized countries. Arrangements are therefore needed
to address these issues in developing countries and for small
farmers [Global Chapters 6, 8].
Bioelectricity and Bioheat
Bioelectricity and bioheat are produced mostly from biomass
wastes and residues. Use of both small-scale biomass digesters and larger-scale industrial applications has expanded in
recent decades. Generation of electricity (44 GW-24 GW
in developing countries—in 2005 or 1% of total electricity
consumption) and heat (220 GWth in 2004) from biomass
is the largest non-hydro source of renewable energy, mainly
produced from woods, residues and wastes.
The major biomass conversion technologies are thermochemical and biological. The thermo-chemical technologies include direct combustion of biomass (either alone or
co-fired with fossil fuels) and gasification (to producer gas).
The biological technologies include the anaerobic digestion
of biomass to yield biogas (a mixture primarily of methane
and carbon dioxide). Household-scale biomass digesters
that operate with local organic wastes like animal manure
can generate energy for cooking, heating and lighting in rural homes and are widespread in China, India and Nepal,
with the organic sludge and effluents returned to the fields.
However their operation can sometimes pose technical,
maintenance and resource challenges (e.g., water requirements of digesters). Industrial-scale units are less prone to

11/3/08 12:08:16 PM

38 | IAASTD Synthesis Report

technical problems and are increasingly widespread in some
developing countries, especially in China. Similar technologies are also employed in industrialized countries, mostly
to capture environmentally problematic methane emissions (e.g., at landfills and livestock holdings) and produce
energy.
Some forms of bioelectricity and bioheat can be economically competitive with other off-grid energy options
such as diesel generators, even without taking into consideration potential non-market benefits such as GHG emissions
reductions, and therefore are viable options for expanding
energy access in certain settings. The largest potential lies
with the production of bioelectricity and heat when technically mature and reliable generators have access to secure
supply of cheap feedstocks and capital costs can be spread
out over high average electricity demand. This is sometimes
the case on site or near industries that produce biomass
wastes and residues and have their own steady demand for
electricity, e.g., sugar, rice and paper mills. Environmentally and socially, bioelectricity and heat are most often less
problematic than liquid biofuels for transport because they
are predominantly produced from wastes, residues and sustainable forestry. In these cases significant GHG emission
reductions can be achieved, even when biomass is co-fired
with coal, and food prices are unlikely to be affected. The
economics as well as environmental effects are particularly
favorable when operated in combined heat and electricity mode, which is increasingly being employed in various
countries, e.g., during harvesting season Mauritius meets
70% of electricity needs from sugarcane bagasse cogeneration. However, particulate emissions from smoke stacks are
of considerable concern. Biomass digesters and gasifiers are
more prone to technical failures than direct combustion facilities, especially when operated in small-scale applications
without proper maintenance and experiences with their application vary considerably [ESAP Chapter 4; Global Chapters 3, 5, 6; SSA Chapter 2].
Small-scale applications for local use of first generation biofuels can sometimes offer interesting alternatives
for electricity generation that do not necessarily produce
the negative effects of large-scale production due to more
contained demands on land, water and other resources.
Biodiesel has special potential in small-scale applications,
as it is less technology and capital intensive to produce than
ethanol, although methanol requirements for its production
can pose a challenge. Unrefined bio-oils for stationary uses
are even less technology intensive to produce and do not
require methanol. However, engines for power generation
and water pumping have to be adapted for their use. Local
stationary biofuel schemes may offer particular potential for
local communities when they are integrated in high intensity
small-scale farming systems that allow an integrated production of food and energy crops. These options are being
analyzed in several countries, e.g., focusing on Jatropha and
Pongamia as a feedstock, but evidence on their potential is
not yet conclusive [CWANA Chapter 2; Global Chapter 6;
NAE Chapter 5].
Several actions can be undertaken to promote a better
exploitation of bioelectricity and bioheat potential [Global
Chapter 7].

01-SR.indd 38

•	

•	

•	

•	

Promoting R&D: Improving operational stability and
reducing capital costs promises to improve the attractiveness of bioenergy, especially of small and mediumscale biogas digesters, thermo-chemical gasifiers and
stationary uses of unrefined vegetable oils. More research is also needed on assessing the costs and benefits
to society of these options, taking into consideration
also other energy alternatives [Global Chapter 6].
Development of product standards and dissemination
of knowledge: A long history of policy failures and a
wide variety of locally produced generators with large
differences in performance have led to considerable
skepticism about bioenergy in many countries. The development of product standards, as well as demonstration projects and better knowledge dissemination, can
contribute to increase market transparency and improve
consumer confidence.
Local capacity building: Experience of various bioenergy promotion programs has shown that proper operation and maintenance are key to success and sustainability of low-cost and small-scale applications. Therefore, local consumers and producers need to be closely
engaged in the development as well as the monitoring
and maintenance of facilities.
Access to finance: Compared to other off-grid energy
solutions, bioenergy often exhibits higher initial capital costs but lower long-term feedstock costs. This cost
structure often forces poor households and communities to forego investments in modern bioenergy—even
in cases when levelized costs are competitive and payback periods short. Improved access to finance can help
to reduce these problems.

Cross-cutting Issues
Food prices. The diversion of agricultural crops to fuel

can negatively affect hunger alleviation throughout the
world in the short to medium term, even though price
increases may be mitigated in the long term. This risk is
particularly high for first generation biofuels for transport due to their very large demands for agricultural
crops. Price increases can be caused directly, through the

increase in demand for feedstocks, or indirectly, through the
increase in demand for the factors of production (e.g., land,
water), so the use of non-food crops is unlikely to alleviate
these concerns. More research is needed to assess these risks
and their effects but it is evident that poor net buyers of
food and food-importing developing countries are particularly affected.

Environment. The large demands for additional agricultural
and forestry products for bioenergy can also cause important environmental effects. Again, because of the large additional demands for agricultural feedstocks, first generation biofuels create the largest potential problems including pushing more ecologically fragile and valuable lands
into production and depleting and contaminating water
resources. Moreover, some of the fast growing crops promoted for bioenergy production raise environmental (e.g.,

11/3/08 12:08:16 PM

Themes: Bioenergy | 39

their resemblance with weeds) and social concerns. On the
other hand, bioenergy can positively contribute to climate
change mitigation, although this potential differs strongly
from case to case and costs have to be compared to other
mitigation options.
Institutional arrangements. Institutional arrangements and
power relationships strongly impact the ability of different
stakeholders to participate in bioenergy production and
consumption and the distribution of costs and benefits. The
current weaknesses in institutional links and responsibilities between the various sectors involved in the policy and

01-SR.indd 39

technology of agriculture as an energy consumer and producer will have to be overcome through local, national and
regional frameworks.
Integrated analysis. The economics of bioenergy as well as
positive and negative environmental and social effects are
highly complex, depend considerably on particular circumstances and have important distributional implications. Consequently, decision makers need to carefully weigh full social,
environmental and economic costs of the targeted form of
bioenergy and of the envisaged support policy against realistically achievable benefits and other energy alternatives.

11/3/08 12:08:16 PM

Biotechnology

Writing Team: Jack Heinemann (New Zealand), Tsedeke Abate
(Ethiopia), Angelika Hilbeck (Switzerland), Doug Murray (USA)

Biotechnology8 is defined as “any technological application
that uses biological systems, living organisms, or derivatives
thereof, to make or modify products or processes for a specific use.” In this inclusive sense, biotechnology can include
anything from fermentation technologies (e.g., for beer
making) to gene splicing. It includes traditional and local
knowledge (TLK) and the contributions to cropping practices, selection and breeding of plants and animals made by
individuals and societies for millennia [CWANA Chapter 1;
Global Chapter 6]. It would also include the application of
tissue culture and genomic techniques [Global Chapter 6]
and marker assisted breeding or selection (MAB or MAS)
[Global Chapter 5, 6; NAE Chapter 2] to augment natural
breeding.9
Modern biotechnology is a term adopted by international convention to refer to biotechnological techniques
for the manipulation of genetic material and the fusion of
cells beyond normal breeding barriers9 [Global Chapter 6].
The most obvious example is genetic engineering to create
genetically modified/engineered organisms (GMOs/GEOs)
through “transgenic technology” involving the insertion or
deletion of genes. The word “modern” does not mean that
these techniques are replacing other, or less sophisticated,
biotechnologies.
Conventional biotechnologies, such as breeding techniques, tissue culture, cultivation practices and fermentation are readily accepted and used. Between 1950 and 1980,
prior to the development GMOs, modern varieties of wheat
may have increased yields up to 33% even in the absence
of fertilizer. Even modern biotechnologies used in containment have been widely adopted. For example, the industrial
enzyme market reached US$1.5 billion in 2000.
Biotechnologies in general have made profound contributions that continue to be relevant to both big and
small farmers and are fundamental to capturing any advances derived from modern biotechnologies and related
nanotechnologies10 [Global Chapter 3, 5, 6]. For example,
plant breeding is fundamental to developing locally adapted
plants whether or not they are GMOs. These biotechnoloSee definition in Executive Summary.
These are provided as examples and not comprehensive descriptions of all types of modern biotechnology (see Fig. SR-BT1).
11
Specifically those nanotechnologies that involve the use of living organisms or parts derived thereof.
9

10

gies continue to be widely practiced by farmers because they
were developed at the local level of understanding and are
supported by local research.
Much more controversial is the application of modern
biotechnology outside containment, such as the use of GM
crops. The controversy over modern biotechnology outside
of containment includes technical, social, legal, cultural and
economic arguments. The three most discussed issues on
biotechnology in the IAASTD conceredt:
•	 Lingering doubts about the adequacy of efficacy and
safety testing, or regulatory frameworks for testing
GMOs [e.g., CWANA Chapter 5; ESAP Chapter 5;
Global Chapter 3, 6; SSA 3];
•	 Suitability of GMOs for addressing the needs of most
farmers while not harming others, at least within some
existing IPR and liability frameworks [e.g., Global
Chapter 3, 6];
•	 Ability of modern biotechnology to make significant
contributions to the resilience of small and subsistence
agricultural systems [e.g., Global Chapter 2, 6].
Some controversy may in part be due to the relatively short
time modern biotechnology, particularly GMOs, has existed
compared to biotechnology in general. While many regions
are actively experimenting with GMOs at a small scale [e.g.,
ESAP Chapter 5; SSA Chapter 3], the highly concentrated
cultivation of GM crops in a few countries (nearly threefourths in only the US and Argentina, with 90% in the four
countries including Brazil and Canada) is also interpreted
as an indication of a modest uptake rate [Global Chapter 5,
6]. GM crop cultivation may have increased by double digit
rates for the past 10 years, but over 93% of cultivated land
still supports conventional cropping.
The pool of evidence of the sustainability and productivity of GMOs in different settings is relatively anecdotal,
and the findings from different contexts are variable [Global
Chapter 3, 6], allowing proponents and critics to hold entrenched positions about their present and potential value.
Some regions report increases in some crops [ESAP Chapter
5] and positive financial returns have been reported for GM
cotton in studies including South Africa, Argentina, China,
India and Mexico [Global Chapter 3; SSA Chapter 3]. In
contrast, the US and Argentina may have slight yield declines in soybeans, and also for maize in the US [references
in Global Chapter 3]. Studies on GMOs have also shown
the potential for decreased insecticide use, while others
show increasing herbicide use. It is unclear whether detected
benefits will extend to most agroecosystems or be sustained

40

01-SR.indd 40

11/3/08 12:08:17 PM

Themes: Biotechnology | 41

Biotechnology
MODERN BIOTECHNOLOGY
Natural regeneration

Cell fusion
Transfection

Cultivation methods

Transformation
Modern
biotechnology

Conjugation/agroinfection
GMOs
in vitro manipulated
DNA and RNA

Tissue culture

Natural breeding

Design: UNEP/GRID-Arendal, Ketill Berger

Figure
Biotechnology
and modern
defined.
FigureSR-BT1.
SR-BT1.
Biotechnology
and biotechnology
modern biotechnology
defined.

Major GM crop production countries, 2006

A TINY SLICE:
Crop land in the
Philippines and
Australia enlarged
250% to make GM
crops visible

GM crops
Crop land

PHILIPPINES

CANADA

CHINA

USA

AUSTRALIA
PHILIPPINES
INDIA
BRASIL

Million hectares
200
100
50
25
10

PARAGUAY
URUGUAY

AUSTRALIA
SOUTH AFRICA

ARGENTINA

SOURCE: Earthtrends 2003 and Clive James
DESIGN: UNEP/GRID-Arendal, Ketill Berger

Figure
status of
of GM
GM2006.
2006.
FigureSR-BT2.
SR-BT2. Global
Global status

01-SR.indd 41

11/3/08 12:08:19 PM

42 | IAASTD Synthesis Report

Land area: Conventional and GM crops
GM share of total (per cent)
Conventional

GM

100

Growth in GM agriculture
Global GM plantings by country (‘000 hectares)

80

120000
100000

60

Total

80000
60000

40

USA

40000
20000

20

0

0

1996

2000

2001

2003

2004

2005

Argentina

Others

1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006

Canada
India

2006

SOURCE: Clive James and Wenzel, G (”2006) Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. volume 70, p. 642–650

IAASTD. Design: UNEP/GRID-Arendal, Ketill Berger

Figure SR-BT3. Agric. (1996–2000) under GM and conventional crops:keeping scale in perspective.

Figure SR-BT3. Agricultural land (1996-2000) by GM and conventional crop plantings: keeping scale
in perspective.

in the long term as resistances develop to herbicides and
insecticides [Global Chapter 3].
IPR frameworks need to evolve to increase access to
proprietary biotechnologies, especially modern biotechnology, and address new liability issues for different sectors of
producers. The use of IPR to increase investment in agriculture has had an uneven success when measured by type of
technology and country. In developing countries especially,
too often instruments such as patents are creating prohibitive costs, threatening to restrict experimentation by the individual farmer or public researcher while also potentially
undermining local practices that enhance food security and
economic sustainability. In this regard, there is particular
concern about present IPR instruments eventually inhibiting
seed-savings and exchanges.
Modern biotechnology has developed in too narrow a
context to meet its potential to contribute to the small and
subsistence farmer in particular [NAE Chapter 6, SDM]. As
tools, the technologies in and of themselves cannot achieve
sustainability and development goals [CWANA Chapter 1;
Global Chapter 2, 3]. For example, a new breeding technique
or a new cultivar of rice is not sufficient to meet the requirements of those most in need; the grain still has to be distributed. Dissemination of the technique or variety alone would
not reduce poverty; it must be adapted to local conditions.
Therefore, it is critical for policy makers to holistically consider biotechnology impacts beyond productivity and yield
goals, and address wider societal issues of capacity building,
social equity and local infrastructure [SSA Chapter 3].
Challenge: Biotechnology for Development and
Sustainability Goals
Biotechnology in general, and modern biotechnology in particular, creates both costs and benefits [CWANA Chapter 5;

01-SR.indd 42

ESAP Chapter 5; Global Chapter 3], depending on how it
is incorporated into societies and ecosystems and whether
there is the will to fairly share benefits as well as costs. For
example, the use of modern plant varieties has raised grain
yields in most parts of the world, but sometimes at the expense of reducing biodiversity or access to traditional foods
[Global Chapter 3]. Neither costs nor benefits are currently
perceived to be equally shared, with the poor tending to receive more of the costs than the benefits [Global Chapter 2].
Hunger, nutrition and health
Biotechnologies affect human health in a variety of ways.
The use of DNA-based technologies, such as microchips,
for disease outbreak surveillance and diagnostics can realistically contribute to both predicting and curtailing the
impacts of infectious diseases [NAE Chapter 6]. The application of these technologies would serve human health
objectives both directly and indirectly, because they could be
applied to known human diseases and to plant and animal
diseases that might be the source of new human diseases or
which could reduce the quantity or quality of food.
Other products of modern biotechnology, for example
GMOs made from plants that are part of the human food
supply but developed for animal feed or to produce pharmaceuticals that would be unsafe as food, might threaten human
health [Global Chapters 3, 6]. Moreover, the larger the scale
of bio/nanotechnology or product distribution, the more challenging containment of harm can become [Global Chapter 6].
All biotechnologies must be better managed to cope
with a range of ongoing and emerging problems [SSA
Chapter 3]. Holistic solutions may be slowed, however, if
GMOs are seen as sufficient for achieving development and
sustainability goals and consequently consume a disproportionate level of funding and attention. To use GMOs or not

11/3/08 12:08:21 PM

Themes: Biotechnology | 43

is a decision that requires a comprehensive understanding
of the products, the problems to be solved and the societies in which they may be used [CWANA Chapter 5]. Thus,
whatever choices are made, the integration of biotechnology
must be within an enabling environment supported by local
research [Global Chapter 6] and education that empowers
local communities [CWANA Chapter 1].
Social equity
Two framing perspectives on how best to put modern biotechnology to work for achieving sustainability and development goals are contrasted in the IAASTD. The first
perspective [e.g., see Global Chapter 5] argues that modern
biotechnology is overregulated and this limits the pace and
full extent of its benefits. According to the argument, regulation of biotechnology may slow down the distribution of
products to the poor [Global Chapter 5].
The second perspective says that the largely private control of modern biotechnology [Global Chapter 5] is creating both perverse incentive systems, and is also eroding the
public capacity to generate and adopt AKST that serves the
public good [e.g., see Global Chapters 2, 7]. The integration of biotechnology through the development of incentives for private (or public-private partnership) profit has
not been successfully applied to achieving sustainability and
development goals in developing countries [Global Chapter
7], especially when they include the success of emerging and
small players in the market. Consolidation of larger economic units [CWANA Chapter 1; Global Chapter 3; NAE
Chapters 2, 6] can limit agrobiodiversity [Global Chapter
3] and may set too narrow an agenda for research [Global
Chapters 2, 5]. This trend might be slowed through broadening opportunities for research responsive to local needs.
The rise of IPR frameworks since the 1970s, and especially the use of patents since 1980, has transformed
research in and access to many products of biotechnology
[Global Chapter 2; NAE Chapter 2]. Concerns exist that
IPR instruments, particularly those that decrease farmers’
privilege, may create new hurdles for local research and development of products [Global Chapters 2, 6; SSA Chapter
3]. It is unlikely, therefore, that over regulation per se inhibits the distribution of products from modern biotechnology because even if safety regulations were removed, IPR
would still likely be a significant barrier to access and rapid
adoption of new products. This may also apply to the future development of new GM crops among the largest seed
companies, with costs incurred to comply with IP requirements already exceeding the costs of research in some cases
[Global Chapters 6, 7].
Products of biotechnology, both modern and conventional, are frequently amenable to being described as IP and
increasingly being sold as such, with the primary holders
of this IP being large corporations that are among those
most capable of globally distributing their products [Global
Chapter 2]. Even under initiatives to develop “open source”
biotechnology or return some IP to the commons, the developers may have to adequately document the IP to prevent
others from claiming it and restricting its use in the future.
This ability to develop biotechnologies to meet the needs
of IP protection goals may undervalue the past and present contribution by farmers and societies to the platform

01-SR.indd 43

upon which modern biotechnology is built [ESAP Chapter
5; Global Chapters 2, 6, 7]. It is not just the large transnational corporations who are interested in retaining control
of IP. Public institutions, including universities, are becoming significant players and in time, holders of TLK may also
[Global Chapter 7].
IP protected by patents can be licensed for use by others. Currently it is contracts and licenses [Global Chapter
2] that dominate the relationship between seed developers
and farmers [Global Chpater 2]. For example, farmers and
CGIARs enter into contracts and material transfer agreements (MTAs) with a seed company, or a community-based
owner of TK. These contracts can help resolve some access
issues, but can simultaneously create other legal and financial problems that transcend easy fixes of patent frameworks
alone [Global Chapters 2, 5].
Technical and Intensification Issues
Since agriculture (excluding wild fisheries) already uses
nearly 40% of the Earth’s land surface [Global Chapter 7],
biotechnology could contribute to sustainability and development goals if it were to help farmers of all kinds produce
more from the land and sea already in use, rather than by
producing more by expanding agricultural land [SSA Chapter 1]. In addition to meeting future food needs, agriculture
is increasingly being considered as an option to meet energy
needs [Global Chapter 6], which exacerbates the pressures
on yield [ESAP Chapter 5]. Food security, however, is a
multi-dimensional challenge, so the demands on biotechnology in the long term will extend far beyond just increasing
yield [NAE Chapter 6, SDM].
Agroecosystems
How agriculture is conducted influences what and how
much a society can produce. Biotechnology and the production system are inseparable, and biotechnology must work
with the best production system for the local community
[ESAP Chapter 5]. For example, agroecosystems of even
the poorest societies have the potential through ecological
agriculture and IPM to meet or significantly exceed yields
produced by conventional methods, reduce the demand for
land conversion for agriculture, restore ecosystem services
(particularly water), reduce the use of and need for synthetic
fertilizers derived from fossil fuels, and the use of harsh insecticides and herbicides [Global Chapters 3, 6, 7]. Likewise,
how livestock are farmed must also suit local conditions
[CWANA Chapter 1]. For example, traditional “pastoral
societies are driven by complex interactions and feedbacks
that involve a mix of values that includes biological, social,
cultural, religious, ritual and conflict issues. The notion that
sustainability varies between modern and traditional societies needs to be” generally recognized [Global Chapter 6].
It may not be enough to use biotechnology to increase the
number or types of cattle, for instance, if this reduces local
genetic diversity or ownership, the ability to secure the best
adapted animals, or they further degrade ecosystem services
[CWANA Chapters 1, 5; Global Chapter 7].
Agroecosystems are also vulnerable to events and
choices made in different systems. Some farming certification systems, e.g., organic agriculture, can be put at risk
by GMOs, because a failure to segregate them can under-

11/3/08 12:08:21 PM

44 | IAASTD Synthesis Report

mine market certifications and reduce farmer profits [Global
Chapter 6]. Seed supplies and centers of origin may be put at
risk when they become mixed with unapproved or regulated
articles in source countries [Global Chapter 3].
Trees and crops
Plant breeding and other biotechnologies (excluding transgenics discussed below) have made substantial historical
contributions to yield [Global Chapter 3]. While yield may
have “topped out” under ideal conditions [Global Chapter
3], in developing countries the limiting factor has been access to modern varieties and inputs instead of an exhaustion of crop trait diversity [Global Chapter 3], and therefore
plant breeding remains a fundamental biotechnology for
contributing to sustainability and development goals.
Biotic and abiotic stresses, e.g., plant pathogens, drought
and salinity, pose significant challenges to yield. These challenges are expected to increase with the effects of urbanization, the conversion of more marginal lands to agricultural
use [SSA Chapter 1], and climate change [CWANA Chapter
1; Global Chapter 7; SSA Chapter 1]. Adapting new cultivars to these conditions is difficult and slow, but it is again
plant breeding perhaps complemented with MAS, that is
expected to make the most substantial contribution [Global
Chapters 3, 6]. Genetic engineering also could be used to
introduce these traits [Global Chapter 5; NAE Chapter 6].
It may be a way to broaden the nutritional value of some
crops [ESAP Chapter 5]. If GM crops were to increase productivity and prevent the conversion of land to agricultural
use, they could have a significant impact on conservation
[Global Chapter 5]. However, the use of some traits may
threaten biodiversity and agrobiodiversity by limiting farmers’ options to a few select varieties [ESAP Chapter 5; Global
Chapters 3, 5, 6].
Breeding capacity is therefore of great importance to
assessments of biotechnology in relation to sustainability
and development goals [NAE Chapters 4, 6]. In developing countries, public plant breeding institutions are common
but IP and globalization threaten them [Global Chapters 2,
6]. As privatization fuels a transfer of knowledge away from
the commons, there is a contraction both in crop diversity
and numbers of local breeding specialists. In many parts of
the world women play this role, and thus a risk exists that
privatization may lead to women losing economic resources
and social standing as their plant breeding knowledge is appropriated. At the same time, entire communities run the
risk of losing control of their food security [CWANA Chapter 1; Global Chapter 2].
Plant breeding activities differ between countries,
so public investment in genetic improvement needs to be
augmented by research units composed of local farming
communities [Global Chapters 2, 6]. In addition, conflicts
in priorities, that could endanger in situ conservation as a
resource for breeding, arising from differences in IP protection philosophies need to be identified and resolved [Global
Chapter 2]. For example, patent protection and forms of
plant variety protection place a greater value on the role of
breeders than that of local communities that maintain gene
pools through in situ conservation [Global Chapter 2]. It
will be important to find a new balance between exclusive
access secured through IPR or other instruments and the

01-SR.indd 44

need for local farmers and researchers to develop locally
adapted varieties. It will be important to maintain a situation where innovation incentives achieved through IPR instruments and the need for local farmers and researchers to
develop locally adapted varieties are mutually supportive.
Patent systems, breeders’ exemptions and farmers’ privilege
provisions may need further consideration here [Global
Chapter 2]. An important early step may be to create effective local support for farmers. Support could come from, for
example, farmer NGOs, where appropriate, to help develop
local capacities, and advisers to farmer NGO’s to guide their
investments in local plant improvement. Participatory plant
breeding, which incorporates TK, is a flexible strategy for
generating new cultivars using different local varieties. It has
the added advantage of empowering the local farmer and
women [Global Chapter 2]. A number of ad hoc private initiatives for donating or co-developing IP are also appearing
[Global Chapter 2], and more should be encouraged.
The decline in numbers of specialists in plant breeding,
especially from the public sector, is a worrisome trend for
maintaining and increasing global capacity for crop improvement [Global Chapter 6]. In addition, breeding supplemented with the use of MAS can speed up crop development,
especially for simple traits [Global Chapter 3; NAE Chapter
6]. It may or may not also significantly accelerate the development of traits that depend on multiple genes [Global
Chapter 6]. Provided that steps are taken to maintain local ownership and control of crop varieties, and to increase
capacity in plant breeding, adaptive selection and breeding
remain viable options for meeting development and sustainability goals [Global Chapter 6; NAE Chapter 6].
Gene flow
Regardless of how new varieties of crop plants are created, care needs to be taken when they are released because
through gene flow they can become invasive or problem
weeds, or the genes behind their desired agronomic traits
may introgress into wild plants threatening local biodiversity [Global Chapter 5]. Gene flow may assist wild relatives
and other crops to become more tolerant to a range of environmental conditions and thus further threaten sustainable production [Global Chapters 3, 6]. It is important to
recognize that both biodiversity and crop diversity are important for sustainable agriculture. Gene flow is particularly
relevant to transgenes both because they have tended thus
far to be single genes or a few tightly linked genes in genomes, which means that they can be transmitted like any
other simple trait through breeding (unlike some quantitative traits that require combinations of chromosomes to be
inherited simultaneously), and because in the future some
of the traits of most relevance to meeting development and
sustainability goals are based on genes that adapt plants to
new environments (e.g., drought and salt tolerance) [Global
Chapter 5].
Transgene flow also creates potential liabilities [Global
Chapter 6]. The liability is borne when the flow results in
traditional, economic or environmental damage. For example, the flow of transgenes from pharmaceutical GM food
crops to other food crops due to segregation failures could
introduce both traditional and environmental damage. An
important type of potential economic damage arises from

11/3/08 12:08:22 PM

Themes: Biotechnology | 45

the type of IPR instrument used to protect GM but not conventional and plants in some jurisdictions. The former are
subject to IP protection that follows the gene rather than the
trait, and is exempt from farmer’s privilege provisions in some
plant variety protection conventions [Global Chapter 6].
GMOs and chemical use
There is an active dispute over the evidence of adverse effects of GM crops on the environment [Global Chapter 3 vs.
NAE Chapter 3]. That general dispute aside, as GM plants
have been adopted mainly in high chemical input farming
systems thus far [Global Chapter 3], the debate has focused
on whether the concomitant changes in the amounts or
types of some pesticides [Global Chapter 2; NAE Chapter
3] that were used in these systems prior to the development
of commercial GM plants creates a net environmental benefit [Global Chapter 3]. Regardless of how this debate resolves, the benefits of current GM plants may not translate
into all agroecosystems. For example, the benefits of reductions in use of other insecticides through the introduction of
insecticide-producing (Bt) plants [NAE Chapter 3] seems to
be primarily in chemically intensive agroecosystems such as
North and South America and China [Global Chapter 3].
Livestock and aquaculture to increase food
production and improve nutrition
Livestock, poultry and fish breeding have made substantial
historical and current contributions to productivity [Global
Chapters 3, 6, 7]. The key limitation to productivity increases in developing countries appears to be in adapting
modern breeds to the local environment [CWANA Chapter
5; Global Chapter 3]. The same range of genomics and engineering options available to plants, theoretically, apply to
livestock and fish [Global Chapters 3, 6; NAE Chapter 6].
In addition, livestock biotechnologies include artificial insemination, sire-testing, synchronization of estrus, embryo
transfer and gamete and embryo cryopreservation, and new
cloning techniques [see CWANA Chapter 5; Global Chapter
6; NAE Chapter 6 for a range of topics].
Biotechnology can contribute to livestock and aquaculture through the development of diagnostics and vaccines
for infectious diseases [Global Chapter 6; NAE Chapter 6],
transgenes for disease resistance [Global Chapter 3] and development of feeds that reduce nitrogen and phosphorous
loads in waste [Global Chapter 3]. Breeding with enhanced
growth characteristics or disease resistance is also made possible with MAS [Global Chapter 3; NAE Chapter 6]. As
with plants, the difficulty with breeding animals is in bringing the different genes necessary for some traits together all
at once in the offspring. Animals with desired traits might be
more efficiently selected by using genomic maps to identify
quantitative traits and gene x environment interactions.
There are currently no transgenic livestock animals in
commercial production and none likely in the short term
[Global Chapter 6]. Gene flow from GM fish also may be of
significant concern and so GM fish would need to be closely
monitored [CWANA Chapter 5; Global Chapter 3]. Assessing environmental impacts of GM fish is even more difficult
than for GM plants, as even less is known about marine
ecosystem than about terrestrial agroecosystems.

01-SR.indd 45

Ways Forward
Biotechnology must be considered in a holistic sense to capture its true contribution to AKST and achieving development and sustainability goals. On the one hand, this may be
resisted because some biotechnologies, e.g., genetic engineering, are very controversial and the particular controversy
can cause many to prematurely dismiss the value of all biotechnology in general. On the other hand, those who favor
technologies that are most amenable to prevailing IP protections may resist broad definitions of biotechnology, because
past contributions made by many individuals, institutions
and societies might undermine the exclusivity of claims.
A problem-oriented approach to biotechnology R&D
would focus investment on local priorities identified through
participatory and transparent processes, and favor multifunctional solutions to local problems [Global Chapter 2].
This emphasis replaces a view where commercial drivers determine supply. The nature of the commercial organization
is to secure the IP for products and methods development. IP
law is designed to prevent the unauthorized use of IP rather
than as an empowering right to develop products based on IP.
Instead, there needs to be a renewed emphasis on public sector engagement in biotechnology. It is clearly realized that the
private sector will not replace the public sector for producing
biotechnologies that are used on smaller scales, maintaining
broadly applicable research and development capacities, or
achieving some goals for which there is no market [CWANA
Chapter 5; Global Chapters 5, 8]. In saying this, an IP-motivated public engagement alone would miss the point, and
the public sector must also have adequate resources and expertise to produce locally understood and relevant biotechnologies and products [CWANA Chapter 1].
A systematic redirection of AKST will include a rigorous rethinking of biotechnology, and especially modern
biotechnology, in the decades to come. Effective long-term
environmental and health monitoring and surveillance programs, and training and education of farmers are essential
to identify emerging and comparative impacts on the environment and human health, and to take timely counter
measures. No regional long-term environmental and health
monitoring programs exist to date in the countries with the
most concentrated GM crop production [Global Chapter
3]. Hence, long-term data on environmental implications of
GM crop production are at best deductive or simply missing
and speculative.
While climate change and population growth could collude to overwhelm the Earth’s latent potential to grow food
and bio-materials that sustain human life and well being,
both forces might be offset by smarter agriculture. Present
cultivation methods are energy intensive and environmentally taxing, characteristics that in time both exacerbate
demand for limited resources and damage long term productivity. Agroecosystems that both improve productivity
and replenish ecosystem services behind the supply chain are
desperately needed. No particular actor has all the answers
or all the possible tools to achieve a global solution. Genetically modified plants and GM fish may have a sustainable
contribution to make in some environments just as ecological agriculture might be a superior approach to achieving a
higher sustainable level of agricultural productivity.

11/3/08 12:08:22 PM

Climate Change

Writing team: Gordana Kranjac-Berisavljevic (Ghana), Balgis
Osman-Elasha (Sudan), Wahida Patwa Shah (Kenya), John M.R.
Stone (Canada)

Why is climate change important to achieving development
and sustainability goals? The threat of climate change contains the potential for irreversible damage to the natural resource base on which agriculture depends and hence poses
a grave threat to development. In addition, climate changes
are taking place simultaneously with increasing demands
for food, feed, fiber and fuel [ESAP Chapter 4; NAE Chapter 3]. Addressing these issues will require a wide range of
adaptation and emission reduction measures.
The climate change issue presents decision makers with
a set of formidable challenges not the least of these is the inherent complexity of the climate system [CWANA Chapter
1; ESAP Chapter 4; LAC Chapter 3; NAE Chapter 3]. These
complexities include the long time lags between greenhouse
gas11 emissions and effects, the global scope of the problem
but wide regional variations, the need to consider multiple
greenhouse gases and aerosols, and the carbon cycle, which
is important for converting emissions into atmospheric concentrations. Another significant challenge is the rapidity of
the changes in the climate that have occurred or will occur
[NAE Chapter 3].
Dependency of agriculture on climate. Agricultural production depends on the provision of essential natural ecosystems inputs such as adequate water quantity and quality,
soil nutrients, biodiversity and atmospheric carbon dioxide
to deliver food, fiber, fuel and commodities for human use
and consumption. The ecosystem services that provide these
inputs are affected, both directly and indirectly, by climate
change [CWANA Chapter 1; ESAP Chapters 2, 4; Global
Chapter 1; SSA Chapter 4]. Climate change, for example,
can affect the agrobiodiversity necessary for crop, tree and
livestock improvement, pest control and soil nutrient cycling.
Agricultural production has always been affected by
Greenhouse gases and clouds in the atmosphere absorb the
majority of the long-wave radiation emitted by the Earth’s surface, modifying the radiation balance and, hence, the climate of
the Earth. The primary greenhouse gases are of both, natural and
anthropogenic origin, including water vapour, carbon dioxide
[CO2], methane [CH4] nitrous oxide [N2O] and ozone [O3], while
halocarbons and other chlorine- and bromine-containing substances are entirely anthropogenic.

11

natural climate variability and extreme climate events have
caused significant damage to agriculture and livelihoods resulting in food insecurity and poverty among rural communities [CWANA Chapter 3; ESAP Chapter 4; LAC Chapter
3; NAE Chapters 2,3; SSA Chapter 1]. Throughout human
history people all over the world have learned to adapt to
such climate variability and extreme events. However, experience with adaptive measures differs widely among regions, countries and continents, as do the risks involved
[NAE Chapter 3]. This Assessment provides many example of climate change’s effects on food production, agroforestry, animal production systems, fisheries and forestry
[CWANA Chapter 1; ESAP Chapters 2, 4; LAC Chapter
3; NAE Chapters 1, 3; SSA Chapter 4]. Poor, forest dependent people and small-scale fishers who lack mobility and
livelihood alternatives suffer disproportionately from climatic variability. The El Nino-Southern Oscillation (ENSO)
phenomenon, associated with massive fluctuations in the
marine ecosystems of the western coast of South America,
adversely affects fishing and has led to devastating socioeconomic tolls on the communities that depend on this activity
[LAC Chapter 1] Access to training, education, credit, technologies and other agricultural resources affects the ability
of women in particular to cope with climate change-induced
stresses.
Dependency of climate on agriculture. The relationship between climate change and agriculture (crops, livestock and
forestry) is not a one-way street. [Global Chapter 1; NAE
Chapter 2]. Agriculture contributes to climate change in
several major ways including:
•	 Land conversion and plowing releases large amounts of
stored carbon as CO2 from vegetation and soils. About
50% of the world’s surface land area has been converted
to land for grazing and crop cultivation resulting in a
loss of more than half of the world’s forests. Deforestation and forest degradation releases carbon through the
decomposition of aboveground biomass and peat fires
and decay of drained peat soils.
•	 Carbon dioxide (CO2) and particulate matter are emitted from fossil fuels used to power farm machinery, irrigation pumps, and for drying grain, etc., as well as
fertilizer and pesticide production [NAE Chapter 2].
•	 Nitrogen fertilizer applications and manure applications as well as decomposition of agricultural wastes
results in emissions of nitrous oxide (N2O).
•	 Methane (CH4) is released through livestock digestive
processes and rice production.

46

01-SR.indd 46

11/3/08 12:08:24 PM

Themes: Climate Change | 47

•	
•	

Altered radiative fluxes and evaporation from newly
bare soils [Global Chapter 3].
Increased geographical distance between producer and
consumer, together with regional agricultural specialization, has resulted in greater energy use for transportation.

Overall, agriculture (cropping and livestock) contributes
13.5 % of global greenhouse gas emissions mostly through
emissions of methane and nitrous oxide (about 47% and
58% of total anthropogenic emissions of CH4 and N2O,
respectively). However reports from other estimate the
emissions from livestock alone to account for 18% of total
emissions. This figure includes the entire commodity chain
for livestock. Land use, land use change and forestry contribute another 17.4% mostly as carbon dioxide. Most of
greenhouse gas emissions are from land use changes and
soil management (40%), enteric fermentation (27%), and
rice cultivation (10%). As diets change and there is more
demand for meat, there is the potential for increased GHG
emissions from agriculture. The relative contribution varies
by region; in NAE it is estimated to be in the range of 7-20%
[Global Chapter 1; NAE Chapter 2]. The highest emissions
of greenhouse gases from agriculture are generally associated with the most intensive farming systems. Sub-Saharan
Africa, on rainfed agriculture, contributes the least in terms
of GHG emissions and yet it is among the most vulnerable
regions to the impacts of climate change [NAE Chapter 3;
SSA Chapter 1] due to multiple stresses, including the heavy
reliance on rain fed agriculture, poverty, weak institutional
structures and low adaptive capacity.
Changes in land use have negatively affected the net
ability of ecosystems to sequester carbon from the atmo-

Greenhouse gas emissions
in 2004 by source
Waste
Farming

2.8

Power

13.5
Land use

sphere. For instance, the carbon rich grasslands and forests
in temperate zones have been replaced by crops with much
lower capacity to sequester carbon. Despite a slow increase
in forests in the northern hemisphere, the overall benefits in
terms of carbon sequestration are being lost due to increased
deforestation in the tropics. There are however complex
tradeoffs, for example, when forest is replaced by oil palm
which will capture carbon but reduce biodiversity. Climate
change is also likely to affect the carbon cycle and some vulnerable natural pools of carbon could turn into sources, e.g.,
loss of peatlands. [Global Chapter 1; NAE Chapter 3].
Observed climate change and impacts. Overall, longer and
more intense droughts have been observed since the 1970s,
particularly in the tropics and sub-tropics. Extreme events
such as floods, droughts and tropical cyclones are now more
intense than before. Throughout NAE there have been significant increases in serious forest fires, in part due to climate change, dense biomass and more human access into
remote areas. The thermal growing season has lengthened
by about 10 days.
Poor, forest dependent people and small-scale fishers
who lack mobility and livelihood alternatives suffer disproportionately from climatic variability. The El Niño-Southern
Oscillation (ENSO) phenomenon, associated with massive
fluctuations in the marine ecosystems of the western coast
of South America, adversely affects fishing, and has lead to
devastating socioeconomic tolls on the communities that depend on this activity [LAC Chapter 1].
Future climate change and projected impacts. Increased
growth and yield rates due to higher levels of carbon dioxide and temperatures could result in longer growing seasons. For example, in mid- to high-latitude regions, according to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s

Greenhouse gas emissions from
agriculture and land use
Other
Deforestation (clearing of
land and burning)

25.9

Land use or soil
management

17.4
13.1
19.4

Industry

SOURCE: IPCC, Working group 1, 2007

Transport

7.9

Buildings

IAASTD. Design: UNEP/GRID-Arendal, Ketill Berger

Figure SR-CC1a.
gasgas
(GHG)
emissions,
2004.
Figure
SR-CC1a.Greenhouse
Greenhouse
(GHG)
emissions,
2004.

01-SR.indd 47

Wetland rice,
manure management

Methane from
livestock (enteric fermentation)

SOURCE: Baumert, 2005

IAASTD. Design: UNEP/GRID-Arendal, Ketill Berger

Figure
GHG
emissions
from
agriculture
Figure SR-CC1b.
SR-CC1b. GHG
emissions
from
agriculture
and and
landland
use. use.

gordanak@gmail.com

11/3/08 12:08:25 PM

48 | IAASTD Synthesis Report

(IPCC) Fourth Assessment Report moderate local increases
in temperature (1-2ºC) can have small beneficial impacts
on crop yields. However, in low-latitude regions, even such
moderate temperature increases are likely to have negative
yield impacts for major cereals. Some negative impacts are
already visible, especially in developing countries. [ESAP
Chapter 2; Global Chapter 5; NAE Chapter 3]. Further
warming will have increasingly negative impacts, particularly affecting production in food insecure regions. Warming in NAE will lead to a northward expansion of suitable
cropping areas as well as a reduction of the growing period
of crops such as cereals, but results, on the whole, project
the potential for global food production to increase with
increases in local average temperature over a range of 1 to
3ºC, and above this range to decrease.
From an ecosystem perspective, the rate of change can
be more important. By 2030, temperature increases of more
than 0.2 Cº per decade are projected. Rates in excess of
this are considered by some experts to be dangerous, although our current understanding is still uncertain [Global
Chapter 5].
Although the state of knowledge of precipitation
changes is currently insufficient for confidence in the details, we expect that for many crops water scarcity will
increasingly constrain production. Climate change will require a new look at water storage to cope with the impacts
of changes in total amounts of precipitation and increased

rates of evapotranspiration, shifts in ratios between snowfall and rainfall and the timing of water availability, and
with the reduction of water stored in mountain glaciers.
Many climate impact studies project global water problems
in the near future unless appropriate action is taken to improve water management and increase water use efficiency.
Projections suggest that by 2050 internal renewable water
is estimated to increase in some developed countries, but is
expected to decrease in most developing countries [Global
Chapter 5].
Climate change will increase heat and drought stress in
many of the current breadbaskets in China, India, and the
United States and even more so in the already stressed areas of sub-Saharan Africa. Rainfed agriculture, especially
of rice and wheat in the ESAP, is likely to be vulnerable.
For example, rainfed rice yield could be reduced by 5-12%
in China for a 2oC rise in temperature. [ESAP Chapter 4;
Global Chapter 6; NAE Chapter 3].
Most climate models indicate a strengthening of the
summer monsoon and increased rainfall in Asia, but in
semiarid areas in Africa the absolute amount of rain may
decline, and seasonal and inter-annual variation increase.
Reductions in the duration or changes in timing of the onset of seasonal floods will affect the scheduling and extent
of the cropping and growing seasons, which may in turn
have large impacts on livelihoods and production systems.
For example, droughts occurring in the monsoon period se-

Projected impact of climate change
Global temperature change (relative to pre-industrial)

0°C

1°C

2°C

3°C

Food

4°C

6°C

Falling crop yields in many areas, particulary developing regions

Possible rising yields in some high latitude regions

Water

5°C

Small mountain glaciers disappear –
water supplies threatened in several areas

Falling yields in many developed regions

Significant decreases in water availability in many
areas, including Mediterranean and Southern Africa

Sea level rise threatens major cities

Ecosystems
Extensive damage to coral reefs

Rising number of species face extinction

Extreme weather events
Rising intensity of storms, forest fires, droughts, flooding and heat waves

Risk of abrupt and major irreversible changes
Increasing risk of dangerous feedbacks and abrupt, large-scale shifts in the climate system
SOURCE: Stern Review

IAASTD. Design: UNEP/GRID-Arendal, Ketill Berger

SR-CC2.
Projected
impacts
of climate
change.
Figure
SR-CC2.
Projected
impacts
of climate
change.

01-SR.indd 48

11/3/08 12:08:26 PM

Themes: Climate Change | 49

verely affect rice crop production in ESAP [ESAP Chapter
4; Global Chapter 5].
Extreme climate events are expected to increase in frequency and severity and all regions will likely be affected by
the increase in floods, droughts, heat waves, tropical cyclones
and other extreme events with significant consequences for
food and forestry production, and food insecurity. This was
demonstrated during the summer 2003 European heat wave
that was accompanied by drought and reduced maize yields
by 20 percent. There is likely to be an increase in incidence
and severity of forest fires in next decades, partly as a result
of climate change [NAE Chapter 2].
Climate change is expected to threaten livestock holders
in numerous ways: animals are very sensitive to heat stress;
they require a reliable resource of water and pasture is very
sensitive to drought. In addition, infectious and vectorborne animal diseases will continue to become increasingly
frequent worldwide [Global Chapter 3].
The effects of climate change on crop and tree yields,
fisheries, forestry and livestock vary greatly by region
[Global Chapter 1; SSA Chapter 4] and climate scenarios
project that local biomes and terrestrial ecosystems will
change. Although climate projections cannot tell us exactly
what and where the changes will be and when they will be
experienced, it is known that climate change will affect regional patterns of temperature and precipitation.
Global climate change is expected to alter marine and
freshwater ecosystems and habitats. Rising sea levels will
alter coastal habitats and their future productivity, threatening some of the most productive fishing areas in the world.
Changes in ocean temperatures will alter ocean currents and
the distribution and ranges of marine animals, including fish
populations. Rising atmospheric CO2 will lead to acidification of ocean waters and disrupt the ability of animals
(such as corals, mollusks, plankton) to secrete calcareous
skeletons, thus reducing their role in critical ecosystems and
food webs [Global Chapter 6; SSA Chapter 4]. Sea level rise
could lead to saltwater intrusion causing a reduction in agricultural productivity in some coastal areas [ESAP Chapters
2, 4; Global Chapter 1; NAE Chapter 3; SSA Chapter 3]. It
is expected that climate change will lead to significant reductions in the diversity fish species with important changes in
abundance and distribution of fresh water fish stocks such
as in rivers and lakes in SSA.
Climate change is affecting and will affect the geographic
range and incidence of many human, animal, and plant
pests, disease vectors and wide variety of invasive species
that will inhabit new ecological niches, [ESAP Chapter 3;
Global Chapters 1, 5, 6, 7]. These anticipated changes may
have a negative impact on agricultural activities through
their effect on the health of farmers and ecosystems, particularly in developing countries. For example, an increase
in temperature and precipitation is projected to expand the
range of vector-transmitted diseases making it possible for
these diseases to become established outside limits of their
current range, and at higher elevations [LAC Chapter 1].
In addition, increased irrigation as an adaptive response to
better control water scarcity due to climate change may increase incidences of malaria [Global Chapter 5] and other
water-related diseases.
Pests and diseases are strongly influenced by seasonal

01-SR.indd 49

weather patterns and changes in climate. Established pests
may become more prevalent due to favorable conditions
that include higher winter temperatures (thus reduced
winter-kill) and more rainfall. New pest introductions alter pest/predator/parasite population dynamics through
changes in growth and developmental rates, the number of
generations produced per year, the severity and density of
populations, the pest virulence to a host plant, or the susceptibility of the host to the pest. Changing weather patterns
also increase crop vulnerability to pests, weeds and invasive plants, thus decreasing yields and increasing pesticide
applications [Global Chapter 3]. Increased temperatures
are likely to facilitate range expansion of highly damaging
weeds, which are currently limited by cool temperatures
[Global Chapters 3, 6].
Climate simulation models indicate substantial future
increases in soil erosion. Tropical soils with low organic
matter are expected to experience the greatest impact of
erosion on crop productivity. Desertification will be exacerbated by reductions in average annual rainfall and increased
evapotranspiration especially in soils that have low levels of
biological activity, organic matter and aggregate stability.
[CWANA Chapter 1; Global Chapter 6] In addition, continued migration to urban areas of younger segments of the
population can lead to agricultural land degradation thus
exacerbating the effects of climate change, as those left on
the land are mostly old and the vulnerable.
There is a serious potential for future conflict, and
possible violent clashes over habitable land and natural resources, such as freshwater, as a result of climate change,
which could seriously impede food security and poverty
reduction. An estimated 25 million people per year already flee from weather-related disasters; global warming
is projected to increase this number to some 200 million
before 2050, with semiarid ecosystems expected to be the
most vulnerable to impacts from climate change refugees
[Global Chapter 6]. In addition, climate change combined
with other socioeconomic stresses could alter the regional
distribution of hunger and malnutrition, with large negative
effects on sub-Saharan Africa.
Options for Action
The IPCC concluded that “warming of the climate system is
now unequivocal” and that “most of the observed increase
in globally averaged temperatures since the mid-20th century is very likely due to the observed increase in anthropogenic greenhouse gas concentrations.” With these strong
conclusions the focus should now shift from defining the
threat to seeking solutions.
In considering responses to the threat of climate change
there are important policy considerations. Tackling the root
cause of the problem, which is the emissions of greenhouse
gases into the atmosphere, requires a global approach. The
earlier and stronger the cuts in emissions, the quicker concentrations will approach stabilization. While emission reduction measures clearly are essential, further changes in
the climate are now inevitable and thus adaptation becomes
imperative. Climate change is not simply an environmental
issue but can also be framed in terms of other issues such
as sustainable development and security. Actions directed
at addressing climate change and efforts to promote sus-

11/3/08 12:08:27 PM

50 | IAASTD Synthesis Report

Table CC1. Multiple stressors in small-scale agriculture.

Multiple stressors in small-scale agriculture
Stressors

Source

Population increase driving fragmentation of landholding

Various

Environmental degradation stemming variously from population, poverty, ill-defined property rights

Grimble et al., 2002

Regionalised and globalised markets, and regulatory regimes, increasingly concerned with issues
of food quality and food safety

Reardon et al., 2003

Market failures interrupt input supply following withdrawal of government intervention

Kherallah et al., 2002

Continued protectionist agricultural policies in developed countries, and continued declines and
unpredictability in the world prices of many major agricultural commodities of developing countries

Lipton, 2004, Various

Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and/or acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS)
pandemic, particularly in Southern Africa, attacking agriculture through the deaths of working age
adults, which diverts labor away from farming, erodes household assets, disrupts knowledge
transfer and reduces the capacity of agricultural service providers

Barnet and Whiteside, 2002

For pastoralists, encroachment on grazing lands and failure to maintain traditional natural
resource management

Blench, 2001

State fragility and armed conflict in some regions

Various

SOURCE: IPCC, 2007.

SR-CC1. Multiple stressors in small-scale agriculture.
tainable development share some important common goals
and determinants such as, for example, equitable access to
resources, appropriate technologies and decision-support
mechanisms to cope with risks. Furthermore, decisions on
climate change are usually made in the context of other environmental, social and economic stresses.
There is a need to develop agricultural policies that both
reduce emissions and allow adaptation to climate change
that are closer to carbon-neutral, minimize trace gas emissions and reduce natural capital degradation [Global Chapter 4]. Important questions include how emissions from
agriculture and forestry can be effectively reduced, how to
produce food with greater input efficiency and less GHG
emissions, how agriculture, agroforestry and forestry can
best adapt under given local conditions, and what role biofuels can play—and, finally, what are the implications of
these challenges on requirements for AKST [NAE Chapter
3]. More efforts will be required to develop new knowledge
and technologies, especially for energy-efficient farming systems, as well as more comprehensive cost-benefit analysis
than these now available [Global Chapter 3]. Interconnected
issues, such as the effects of land use changes on biodiversity
and on land degradation, need to be addressed in order to
exploit synergies between the goals of UN conventions on
biodiversity and desertification and climate change.
Adaptation and mitigation are complementary strategies to reduce impacts. The effects of reduced emissions in
avoiding impacts by slowing the rate of temperature increase
will not emerge for several decades due to the inertia of the
climate system. Adaptation, therefore, will be important in
coping with early impacts. Specifically, adaptation will be
necessary to meet the challenge of impacts on agriculture

01-SR.indd 50

to which we are already committed in the near term as well
as for the long term, where the risk of unmitigated climate
change impacts could exceed the adaptive capacity of existing agricultural systems.
Some “win-win” mitigation opportunities have already
been identified. These include land use approaches such as
lower rates of agricultural expansion into natural habitats;
afforestation, reforestation, agroforestry and restoration of
underutilized or degraded land; land use options such as carbon sequestration in agricultural soils, appropriate application of nitrogenous inputs; and effective manure management
and use of feed that increases livestock digestive efficiency.
Policy options covering regulations and investment
opportunities include financial incentives to maintain and
increase forest area through reduced deforestation and degradation and improved management. Those policy options
that enhance the production of renewable energy sources
could be particularly effective. Any post-2012 regime has to
be more inclusive of all agricultural such as reduced emission from reforestation and degradation activities to take
full advantage of the opportunities offered by agriculture
and forestry sectors [Global Chapter 6].
Local, national and regional agricultural development regulatory frameworks will have to take into account
tradeoffs between the need for promoting higher yields and
the need for the maintenance and enhancement of environmental services that support agriculture [SSA Chapter 4].
Adaptation options. Two types of adaptation have been
recognized: autonomous and planned adaptation. Autonomous adaptation does not constitute a conscious response
to climatic stimuli but is triggered by ecological changes in

11/3/08 12:08:27 PM

Themes: Climate Change | 51

natural systems and by market or welfare changes in human systems. Planned adaptation is the result of a deliberate
policy decision, based on an awareness that conditions have
changed or are about to change and that action is required
to return to, maintain, or achieve a desired state. It could
also take place at the community level, triggered by knowledge of the future impacts of climate change and realization
that extreme events experienced in the past are likely to be
repeated in the future. The first means the implementation
of existing knowledge and technology in response to the
changes experienced, while the latter means the increased
adaptive capacity by improving or changing institutions
and policies, and investments in new technologies and infrastructure to enable effective adaptation activities.
Many autonomous adaptation options are largely extensions or intensifications of existing risk-management or
production-enhancement activities. These include:
•	 Changing varieties/species to fit more appropriately to
the changing thermal and/or hydrological conditions;
•	 Changing timing of irrigation and adjusting nutrient
management;
•	 Applying water-conserving technologies and promoting
agrobiodiversity for increased resilience of the agricultural systems; and
•	 Altering timing or location of cropping activities and
the diversification of agriculture [Global Chapter 6].
Planned adaptations include specific policies are aiming at
reducing poverty and increasing livelihood security, provision of infrastructure that supports/enables integrated spatial planning and the generation and dissemination of new
knowledge and technologies and management practices tailored to anticipated changes [NAE Chapter 3]. It is important to note that policy-based adaptations to climate change
will interact with, depend on or perhaps even be just a subset of policies on natural resource management, human and
animal health, governance and political rights, among many
others. These represent examples of the “mainstreaming” of
climate change adaptation into policies intended to enhance
broad resilience.
The extent to which development and sustainability
goals will be affected by climate change depends on how
well communities are able to cope with current climate
change and variability, as well as to other stresses such as
land degradation, poverty, lack of economic diversification,
institutional stability and conflict [Global Chapter 6]. Industrialized world agriculture, generally situated at high
latitudes and possessing economies of scale, good access to
information, technology and insurance programs, as well as
favorable terms of global trade, is positioned relatively well
to adapt to climate change. By contrast small-scale rain-fed
production systems in semiarid and subhumid zones, which
continuously face significant seasonal and inter-annual climate variability, are characterized by poor adaptive capacity
due to the marginal nature of the production environment
and the constraining effects of poverty and land degradation [Global Chapter 6]. Sub-Saharan Africa and CWANA
are especially vulnerable regions [CWANA Chapter 1; SSA
Chapter 1]. The resilience of dry-land ecosystems to deficits
in moisture, temperature extremes and salinity is still inadequately understood.

01-SR.indd 51

The effectiveness of AKST’s adaptation efforts is likely
to vary significantly between and within regions, depending
on exposure to climate impacts and adaptive capacity, the
latter depending very much on economic diversification and
wealth and institutional capacity. The viability of traditional
actions taken by people to lessen the impacts of climate
change in arid and semi arid regions depends on the ability
to anticipate hazard patterns, which are getting increasingly
erratic. Early detection and warning using novel GIS-based
methodologies such as those employed by the Conflict Early
Warning and Response Network (CEWARN) and the Global
Public Health Information Network (G-PHIN) could play a
useful role.
Bringing climate prediction to bear on the needs of agriculture requires increasing observational networks in the
most vulnerable regions, further improvements in forecast
accuracy, integrating seasonal prediction with information
at shorter and longer time scales, embedding crop models
within climate models, enhanced use of remote sensing,
integration into agricultural risk management, enhanced
stakeholder participation, and commodity trade and storage applications [Global Chapter 6].
Mitigation options. A number of options, technologies and
techniques to reduce or off-set the emissions of GHGs already exist and could:
•	 Lower levels of methane or nitrous oxide through increasing the efficiency of livestock production, improving animals’ diets and using feed additives to increase
food conversion efficiency, reducing enteric fermentation and consequent methane emissions, aerating manure before composting and recycling agricultural and
forestry residues to produce biofuels.
•	 Lower nitrous oxides emissions through matching manure and fertilizer application to crop needs and optimizing nitrogen up-take efficiently by controlling the
application rates, method and timing.
•	 Reduce emissions from deforestation and forest degradation, including policy measures to address drivers of
deforestation, improve forest management, forest law
enforcement, forest fire management, improve silvicultural practices and promote afforestation and reforestation to increase carbon storage in forests [Global Chapters 1, 3, 5, 6; SSA Chapter 3]
•	 Improve the soil carbon retention by promoting biodiversity as a tool for climate mitigation and adaptation
and enhance the management of residues, using zero/reduced tillage, including legumes in crop rotation, reducing the fallow periods and converting marginal lands into
woodlots. [Global Chapters 1, 3, 5, 6; SSA Chapter 3]
•	 Support low-input farming agriculture that relies on renewable sources of energy.
It is important that efforts aimed at addressing emissions
reductions mitigation from agriculture carefully consider all
potential GHG emissions. For example, efforts to reduce
CH4 emissions in rice could lead to greater N2O emissions
through changes in soil N dynamics. Similarly, conservation
tillage for soil carbon sequestration can result in elevated
N2O emissions through increased agrochemicals use and accelerated denitrification in soils [Global Chapter 6].

11/3/08 12:08:28 PM

52 | IAASTD Synthesis Report

In addition, policy options regulations and investment
opportunities that include financial incentives to increase
forest area, reduce deforestation and maintain and manage
forests, enhance the production of renewable energy sources
could be particularly effective. However, some challenges
may arise in developing countries which lack sufficient investment capital and have unresolved land tenure issues
[Global Chapters 1, 3, 5; SSA Chapter 3].
Climate change regimes. The Kyoto Protocol currently represents the highest level of international consensus around
the need to address climate change. Questions have been
raised regarding its effectiveness in reducing global emissions to avoid dangerous climate change. It is clear that the
Kyoto Protocol is a first step, one that demonstrates political will and allows for some policy experimentation, and
that deeper cuts and additional de-carbonization strategies
are needed. Mitigation options employing the agricultural
sectors are not well covered under the Protocol. In this regard a much more comprehensive future looking agreement

01-SR.indd 52

is needed if we want to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by agriculture and forestry sectors.
Achieving this could be accomplished through a negotiated global long-term (30-50 years), comprehensive and
equitable regulatory framework with differentiated responsibilities and intermediate targets to reduce the GHG
emissions. Within such a framework a modified Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) with a comprehensive set of
eligible agricultural mitigation activities, including afforestation and reforestation; avoided deforestation, using a
national sectoral approach rather than a project approach
to minimize issues of leakage, thus allowing for policy interventions; and a wide range of agricultural practices including organic agriculture and conservation tillage could help
meet the development and sustainability goals. Other approaches could include reduced agricultural subsidies that
promote GHG emissions and mechanisms to encourage and
support adaptation, particularly in vulnerable regions, such
as the tropics and sub-tropics.

11/3/08 12:08:28 PM

Human Health

Writing Team: Kristie L. Ebi (USA), Rose R. Kingamkono (Tanzania), Karen Lock (UK), Yalem Mekonnen (Ethiopia)

Inter-linkages between health, nutrition, agriculture, and
AKST affect the ability of individuals, communities, and nations to reach sustainability goals. These interlinkages take
place within a context of other, multiple stressors that affect
population health. Intake of food of insufficient quantity,
quality, and variety can result in ill-health. Poor health in
adults and children leads to reduced economic productivity.
Malnutrition and recurrent infections in childhood impair
physical growth and mental development, thus lowering
economic productivity in adulthood [Global Chapters 1, 3,
6; SSA]. Lowered immunity associated with undernutrition
makes individuals more susceptible to a range of diseases,
including HIV/AIDS, and can make treatment and recovery
more difficult [CWANA; ESAP; Global Chapters 2, 3, 5;
LAC; SSA]. Improving health by controlling a range of infectious and chronic diseases can increase the effectiveness
and productivity of food systems and AKST.
Agriculture has generally not had an explicit goal of
improving human health. Appropriate application of AKST
can improve dietary quantity and quality and overall population health; Examples include appropriate crop diversification approaches; the use of fertilizers, such as zinc, selenium,
and iodine, on soils low in these essential human nutrients;
and development of agroecosystem farming approaches designed to improve human, animal, and soil health [Global
Chapters 2, 3, 5, 6, 8].
Agriculture can inadvertently affect health through the
emergence of infectious diseases (approximately 75% of
emerging diseases are zoonotic—transmitted between animals and humans) [Global Chapters 3, 5, 6, 9; NAE Chapters 1, 4; SSA Chapter 3]. Furthermore, agriculture is one
of the three most dangerous occupations [with mining and
construction] in terms of deaths, accidents, exposures, and
occupationally related ill-health [Global Chapter 3]. Consumers are increasingly worried about increased risk of
ill-health resulting from exposure to pesticides and other
agrichemicals, antibiotics and growth hormones, additives
introduced during food-processing, and foodborne pathogens [CWANA Chapter 5; ESAP Chapters 2, 3, 5; Global
Chapters 2, 3, 5, 6, 8; LAC Chapter 1; NAE Chapter 2; SSA
Chapters 2, 3].

Current Status and Trends
Interrelationship between poor health and agriculture.
Vulnerable populations, particularly in rural communities,
are typically exposed to multiple and interacting health risks
associated with agriculture, including poor nutrition, food
safety, and occupational and environmental health risks. This
often results in a significant cumulative burden of ill health.
Poor health in turn impacts on multiple agricultural
functions and outputs. High prevalence rates of malnutrition and infectious and chronic diseases decrease productivity through labor shortages, the need to change the type
of crops grown, and the need to reduce the total area of
land under cultivation. Poor health also impacts on farmers’ ability to innovate and develop new farming systems.
Ill health among families of producers can impact on production through absenteeism to provide health and other
care, and the loss of household income or other outputs of
agricultural work [CWANA; ESAP; Global Chapter 3; LAC;
NAE; SSA]. This is particularly important for women who
are often both the primary producers and primary carers
[see Women in Agriculture theme]. Reduced life expectancy
results in loss of local agricultural knowledge and reduced
capacity, especially with respect to uptake of AKST. In developing countries these issues are clearly illustrated by the
impact of HIV-AIDS, malaria and malnutrition [CWANA;
ESAP; Global Chapters 1, 3; LAC; SSA].
Malnutrition. Worldwide, ill health due to poor nutrition
results from under-nutrition over-nutrition, and imbalanced
food intake leading to obesity [CWANA; ESAP; Global
Chapters 1, 2, 3; LAC; NAE Chapter 2; SSA Chapter 2].
Individual risk factors for under-nutrition include insufficient macro- or micronutrient dietary intake; depletion of
body nutrients due to infections; and increased nutrient requirements during childhood, adolescence, pregnancy, and
high physical activity such as manual labor. Malnutrition in
many countries and regions continues to result from food
insecurity due to multiple causes including loss of land,
economic and political instability, war, and extreme climate
events [Global Chapters 1, 3; SSA Chapter 2].
Over the past 40 years, there have been significant
increases in global food production and supply that has
surpassed population growth in many countries [Global
Chapters 1, 2, 3]. During this period, global under-nutrition
declined but still remains a major public health problem,
estimated to contribute to over 15% of the total global burden of disease in 2000, with high variability in the extent of
53

01-SR.indd 53

11/3/08 12:08:29 PM

54 | IAASTD Synthesis Report

the problem between and within countries. Between 1981
and 2003, 97 developing and 27 transitional countries had
a poor Global Hunger Index [GHI].12 [Global Chapter 2] In
Africa, particularly sub-Saharan Africa, chronic food shortages meant that trends in malnutrition continued or worsened over the past decades [SSA Chapters 1, 2, 3].
Although the world food system provides an adequate
supply of protein and energy for over 85% of people, only
two-thirds have access to sufficient dietary micronutrients
[Global Chapters 1, 3]. The supply of many nutrients in
the diets of the poor has decreased due to a reduction in
diet diversity resulting from increased monoculture of staple
food crops (rice, wheat, and maize) and the loss of a range of
nutrient dense food crops from local food systems. Micronutrient deficiencies lower productivity, in both developed
and developing countries, due to compromised health and
impaired cognition. [CWANA; ESAP; Global Chapters 1, 2,
3; LAC; SSA].

Chapter 3; NAE Chapter 2]. AKST has focused on adding
financial value to basic foodstuffs (e.g., using potatoes to
produce a wide range of snack foods). This has resulted in
cheap, processed food products with low nutrient density
(high in fat, refined sugars and salt), and that have a long
shelf life. Increased consumption of these food products
that are replacing more varied, traditional diets, is contributing to increased rates of obesity and diet-related
chronic disease worldwide. This has been exacerbated by
the significant role of huge advertising budgets spent on
unhealthy foods. There are a few examples of agricultural
food policies that have been developed due to population
health concerns; e.g., formation of the EU common agricultural policy whose original objectives included food
security. In contrast, recent national and international agricultural trade policies/ regimes have not addressed the
changing global health challenges and do not have explicit
public heath goals.

Dietary-related chronic diseases. The success of AKST
policies and practices in increasing production and in new
mechanisms for processing foods have facilitated increasing rates of worldwide obesity and chronic disease through
negative changes in dietary quality [Global Chapters 1, 2,
3, 6; NAE]. Worldwide changes in food systems have resulted in overall reductions in dietary diversity, with low
population consumption of fruits and vegetables and high
intakes of fats, meat, sugar and salt [Global Chapters 1,
2, 3; NAE]. Poor diet throughout the life course is a major risk factor for chronic diseases (including heart disease,
stroke, diabetes and cancer) [Global Chapters 1, 3, 6; NAE
Chapter 2] that comprise the largest proportion of global
deaths. Together with environmental factors such as rapid
urbanization which result in increased sedentary lifestyles
(motorized transport, etc.), dietary changes contribute to
continuing global increases in chronic diseases, overweight,
and obesity affecting both rich and poor in developed and
developing countries. The most dramatic rises in obesity
are now occurring in low- and middle-income countries
[Global Chapters 1, 2, 3; NAE Chapter 2]. These nutritionrelated chronic diseases coexist with under-nutrition in
many countries causing a greater disease burden in lower
income countries [Global Chapters 1, 2, 3]. Unless action
is taken to reduce these trends, all countries will see an increase in the economic burden due to loss of productivity,
increased health care and social welfare costs that are already seen in developed countries [Global Chapter 3; NAE].
Many national and international actors have been slow to
understand and adapt their policies to address these worldwide changes occurring in diet, nutrition, and their health
impacts [Global Chapters 1, 2, 3; NAE Chapter 2].
Policies, regimes and consumer demands have tended
to increase production (especially in the US and Europe) of,
and processing incentives for, foodstuffs that are risk factors for chronic disease (high fat dairy, meat, etc.) [Global

Food safety. Although subject to controls and standards,
globalization of the food supply, accompanied by concentration of food distribution and processing companies, and
growing consumer awareness, increase the need for effective, coordinated, and proactive national food safety systems [CWANA Chapter 5; ESAP Chapters 2, 3, 5; Global
Chapters 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8; LAC Chapter 1; NAE Chapters 1,
2; SSA Chapters 2, 3]. Issues include accountability and lack
of vertical integration between consumers and producers. A
food hazard is a biological, chemical, or physical contaminant, or an agent that affects bioavailability of nutrients.
Food safety hazards may be introduced anywhere along the
food chain with many hazards resulting from inputs into
production and handling of commodities [Global Chapter
2]. As food passes through a multitude of food handlers and
middlemen over extended period of time through the food
production, processing, storage, and distribution chain,
control has become difficult, increasing the risks of exposing
food to contamination or adulteration. Concerns that could
be addressed by AKST include heavy metals, pesticides, safe
use of biofertilizers, the use of hormones and antibiotics in
meat production, large-scale livestock farming and the use
of various additives in food-processing industries. In general, developed countries, despite long food chains, guarantee a high level of consumer protection of imported and
domestic food supplies; the capacity and legislative frameworks of public health systems quickly identify and control
disease outbreaks. In developing countries, safety concerns
are compounded by poverty; inadequate infrastructure for
enforcement of food control systems; inadequate social services and structures (potable water, health, education, transportation); population growth; high incidence and prevalence of communicable diseases including HIV/AIDS; and
trade pressure [CWANA Chapter 5; ESAP Chapters 2, 3,
5; LAC Chapter 1; NAE Chapters 1, 2; SSA Chapters 2, 3].
AKST control of food contamination creates social and
economic burdens on communities and their health systems
through market rejection costs of contaminated commodities causing export market losses, the need for sampling and
testing, costs to food processors and consumers, and associated health costs [Global Chapters 2, 5, 7, 8]. The incidence
of foodborne illnesses caused by pathogenic biological food

12
  GHI captures three equal weighted indicators of hunger: insufficient availability of food [the proportion of people who are food energy deficient]; short fall in nutritional status of children [prevalence
of underweight for <5 years old children] and child mortality [<5
years old mortality rate] which are attributable to undernutrition.

01-SR.indd 54

11/3/08 12:08:29 PM

Themes: Human Health | 55

contaminants, including bacteria, fungi, viruses, or parasites, has increased significantly over the past few decades
[Global Chapters 1, 3, 5]. In developing countries, foodborne diseases can cause and/or exacerbate malnutrition.
Together, these cause an estimated 12 to 13 million child
deaths; survivors are often left with impaired physical and/
or mental development that limits their ability to reach their
full potential [Global Chapter 1].
There is increasing public concern over new AKST
technologies, including GMOs and food irradiation. There
is no clear scientific consensus whether these technologies
affect population health. Significant knowledge gaps limit
the assessment of the human health risks of GMOs. Food
irradiation although useful in reducing the risk of microbial
foodborne illness, could pose dangers to consumers, workers, and the environment [Global Chapters 1, 2, 5].
Occupational impacts on health. Worldwide, agriculture
accounts for at least 170,000 occupational deaths each
year. This number accounts for half of all fatal accidents
worldwide and is likely an underestimate as most injuries
are underreported in developing countries [Global Chapter
3]. Machinery and equipment, such as tractors and harvesters, account for the highest rates of injury and death [Global
Chapters 1, 3]. Other health hazards include agrichemicals;
transmissible animal diseases; toxic or allergenic agents;
and noise, vibration, and ergonomic hazards (related to
heavy loads, repetitive work, and inadequate equipment).
Exposure to pesticides and other agrichemicals constitutes a
major hazard to occupational health (and also wider community environmental health), with poisoning leading to
acute, sub-acute, and chronic adverse health impacts (e.g.,
neurotoxicity, respiratory, and reproductive impacts), particularly among vulnerable populations, and to death including suicide [Global Chapters 2, 3; SSA]. The WHO has
estimated that between 2 to 5 million cases of pesticide poisoning occur each year, resulting in approximately 220,000
deaths. This figure is widely recognized to be an underestimate based on empirical research [Global Chapters 2, 3, 7].
Even when used according to manufacturers specifications,
following best practice and all protective measures, pesticide
exposure cannot be avoided entirely and therefore some element of risk will remain particularly with highly toxic products. This is particularly relevant for developing countries,
where conditions of poverty and lack of effective controls
on hazardous compounds are the norm [Global Chapters
1, 2, 3]. In less developed countries, the risks of serious accidents and injury from a range of sources are increased, for
example, by the use of toxic chemicals banned or restricted
in other countries, unsafe techniques for chemical application or equipment use, the absence or poor maintenance of
equipment, and lack of information available to the worker
on the precautions necessary for minimizing risks during
handling of agrichemicals, livestock, and machinery.
It is estimated that 70% of all child laborers (150 million) work in agriculture, which affects education, development, and long-term health. In addition to improving
occupational health and safety, intersectoral action is needed
to reduce and protect child labor through mechanisms such
as access to education and health, poverty alleviation, and
enforcement of child labor laws.

01-SR.indd 55

Emerging infectious diseases. Emerging and reemerging infectious diseases, including pandemic HIV/AIDS and malaria, are among the leading causes of morbidity and mortality worldwide [Global Chapters 1, 3, 5, 6, 8; SSA Chapter
3]. The incidence and geographic range of these infectious
diseases are influenced by the intensification of crop and
livestock systems, economic factors (e.g., expansion of international trade and lower prices), social factors (changing
diets and lifestyles), demographic factors (e.g., population
growth), environmental factors (e.g., land use change and
global climate change), microbial mutations/evolution, and
the speed with which people can travel around the globe.
Serious socioeconomic impacts can arise when diseases
spread widely within human or animal populations (such as
H5N1), or when they spill over from animal reservoirs to
human hosts; farming intensification often increases these
risks. Even small-scale animal disease outbreaks can have
major economic impacts in pastoral communities.
Future Challenges and Options for Improving Human
Health through AKST
Malnutrition. Adequate nutrition requires a range of interrelated factors to be in place including food security, access
to adequate supplies of safe water, sanitation, and education. AKST should be seen as a primary intervention to
improve nutrition and food security, through development
and deployment of existing and new technologies for production, processing, preservation, and distribution of food
[CWANA; ESAP; Global Chapters 2, 3, 5, 8; LAC; NAE;
SSA]. For example, evidence is beginning to accumulate that
breeding biofortified crops may help address some human
micronutrient deficiency and improve amino acid composition in major staples; use of targeted fertilizers, such as zinc,
selenium, and iodine, on soils low in these essential human
nutrients to correct deficiencies. Developing environmentally sustainable, food-based solutions to under-nutrition
should be a priority. In both local and national food systems, policies and programs to increase crop diversification
and dietary diversity will help achieve food security.
Dietary-related chronic diseases. There are well established
mechanisms and tools for monitoring community nutrition
status. These need to be used systematically to improve surveillance systems for both under- and over-nutrition, and
of chronic disease rates, to ensure that governments appropriately address the rapidly changing nature of nutritionrelated diseases in each country. Strategies for tackling the
rises in overweight, obesity, and non-communicable diseases
are needed in all world regions. Policies that simply rely on
public health education and changing individual behaviors
have been ineffective. Tackling nutrition-related chronic
disease requires coordinated, intersectoral policy responses
that include public health, agriculture, and finance ministries, as well as food industry, consumer organizations, and
other civil society participation [Global Chapter 3; NAE].
There are often tensions between agricultural food
policy and population health improvement goals. Despite
claims that consumers determine the market, the actual
health needs of consumers are seldom the driving factors
in production decisions and agricultural policies [Global

11/3/08 12:08:30 PM

56 | IAASTD Synthesis Report

Global legislation for control
of infectious animal diseases *

Global burden
of infectious animal diseases

OIE
Major
epizootic
diseases
OIE Major
zoonotic diseases

No global legislation
for remaining diseases

Endemic diseases

Other major
zoonotic diseases
Major
epizootic
diseases

* In addition to national legislation and international legislation related to food safety (CODEX)
SOURCE: Martin Wierup and Kris Ebi
Design: UNEP/GRID-Arendal, Ketill Berger

Figure SR-HH1. Global legislation concerning, and global burden of infectious animal diseases.

Figure SR-HH1. Global legislation concerning, and global burden of, infectious animal diseases.

Chapter 3; NAE]. Future AKST needs to refocus on consumer needs and well-being, for example the importance of
diet quality and diversity should be main drivers of production and not merely quantity or price. Fiscal policies should
take into account impacts on public health. Agricultural
subsidies, sales taxes and food marketing incentives or regulations could be refocused to improve nutrition and public
health as a primary aim, for example by promoting production and consumption of more healthy foods such as fruits
and vegetables. AKST could improve dietary quality by regulating healthy product formulation through legislation or
taxation (e.g., higher sales tax for food/foodstuffs known to
cause adverse health effects, or limiting quantities of specific
foods). Regulation may be necessary if voluntary industry
codes are unsuccessful as has been the case in Sweden (banning of the use of transfats in processed foods) and the UK
(reducing quantities of salt in processed foods). Other options for tackling nutrition-related chronic diseases include
international agreements on and/or regulation of food labeling and health claims of products to ensure the marketing
and labels are scientifically accurate and understandable for
all consumers [Global Chapters 1, 3; NAE Chapter 2]. Such
intersectoral polices should be designed and implemented
alongside local and national public health action to maximize impact.
Food safety. AKST, along with strengthening and improving public health and environmental systems, can help ensure animal health, plant health, and food safety [CWANA
Chapter 5; ESAP Chapter 3; Global Chapters 2, 5, 6, 7, 8;
LAC Chapters 2, 3; NAE Chapters 2, 4; SSA Chapter 2].
This requires concerted efforts along the food chain, taking

01-SR.indd 56

a broad agroecosystem health approach. Examples include
good agricultural practices (GAPs) and good manufacturing practices, integrated pest management, biological control of pests, and organic farming. These approaches, along
with regulatory frameworks, can inform effective and safe
pest and crop management strategies to manage the risks
associated with pathogen contamination of foods. Implementing GAPs may help developing countries cope with
globalization without compromising sustainable development objectives. Hazard analysis [risk assessment and food
chain traceability] can enhance biosecurity and biosafety,
disease monitoring and reporting, input safety [including
agricultural and veterinary chemicals], control of potential
foodborne pathogens, and traceability. Sanitation systems
throughout the food production chain are integral to managing the risks associated with pathogens. Also needed is
effective education of consumers in proper food handling
and preparation.
However, AKST can increase the risks of food safety
when technologies are applied without effective management of possible health risks. An example is the increasing
use of treated wastewater in water-stressed agricultural systems in developing countries, where local communities have
experienced increased rates of diarrheal diseases when either
technologies or pathogen-contaminated wastewater outputs
were used without effective controls.
Constraints to fuller deployment of current technologies and policies to improve food safety and public health
include a wide and complex variety of factors (including
market, trade, economic, institutional, and technical). There
is a need to establish effective national regulatory standards
and liability laws that are consistent with international best

11/3/08 12:08:31 PM

Themes: Human Health | 57

practices, along with the necessary infrastructure to ensure
compliance, including sanitary and phytosanitary surveillance programs for animal and human health, laboratory
analysis and research capabilities (such as skilled manpower
and staff for research), and need-based and on-going training and auditing programs [CWANA Chapter 5; ESAP
Chapter 3; Global Chapters 6, 7, 8; LAC Chapters 2, 3;
NAE Chapters 2, 4; SSA Chapter 2].
Agrochemical exposure is of increasing concern
[CWANA Chapter 5; ESAP Chapters 2, 3; 5; Global Chapters 3, 5, 6, 7, 8; LAC Chapters 1, 2, 3; NAE Chapters 2, 4;
SSA Chapters 2, 3]. Use of agrochemicals is growing faster
in developing than developed countries. Environmental and
food safety impacts from agrochemicals, both positive and
negative are determined by the conditions of use. Although
there is no global mechanism to track pesticide-related illnesses, estimates of the number of possible cases and health
costs are high, particularly in many developing countries
without health insurance and universal health care.
Appropriate use of AKST can help prevent adverse
health impacts along the food chain [CWANA Chapter 5;
ESAP Chapter 3; Global Chapters 6, 7, 8; LAC Chapter
1; NAE Chapter 2; SSA Chapters 2, 3]. Place-based and
participatory deployment of current (such as precision
agriculture and bioremediation) and development of new
technologies (such as biosensors) can reduce the risks associated with agrochemicals. Supply chain management presents a particular challenge in many less developed countries
(LDCs), where the supply chain is characterized by limited
coordination between farmers, traders, and consumers,
poor infrastructure, and insufficient cold storage systems.
Other challenges include harmonization of national and international regulations establishing upper levels of intake of
nutrients and other substances, implementation of international treaties and recommendations, and improvement of
food safety without creating barriers for poor producers and
consumers. Implementation of these options requires major
public and private research and development investments.
Occupational health. Agriculture is traditionally an underregulated sector in many countries and enforcement of any
safety regulations is often difficult due to the dispersed nature of agricultural activity and lack of awareness of the extent of the hazards by those concerned. Few countries have
any mechanism for compensation of occupational ill health.
Current treaties and legislative frameworks, for example
for agrichemicals, are not working. Improving occupational
health in agriculture requires a greater emphasis on prevention and health protection, tackled through integrated
multi-sectoral policies which must include effective national
health and safety legislation (including child labor laws), and
AKST which explicitly minimises health risks of agricultural
workers. For example, health risks associated with pesticide
use could be reduced through investment in pesticide reduction programs which could include incentives for alternative
production methods (such as organic), investment in viable
alternatives such as integrated pest management, and harm
minimisation including withdrawal of generic compounds
of high toxicity, and effective implementation of national
and international regulations to stop cross-border dumping
of hazardous and banned products [Global Chapters 1, 2,

01-SR.indd 57

3, 6, 7, 8; NAE Chapter 2]. AKST is essential to develop
and deploy safer machinery and equipment, and improved
knowledge transfer is required to improve use of existing
and new technologies and techniques, including safe use of
machinery, and livestock handling.
Occupational health will only be prioritized when the full
extent of the problem becomes clear. This requires improved
surveillance and notification systems on occupational accidents, injuries and diseases especially in LDCs. Agricultural
and rural development policies should address the need for
conducting occupational health risk assessments in the short
term which make explicit the trade-offs between benefits to
production, livelihoods, environmental and human health.
These should include an assessment of all the external costs,
including those on human health, as part of sustainable livelihood and poverty reduction programmes. Implementation
of more agroecological approaches may result in synergies
where reduction of input costs can also lead to improved
livelihoods and harm minimization [Global Chapters 2, 3].
Emerging infectious diseases. Most of the factors that contribute to disease emergence will continue, if not intensify,
in the 21st century, with pathogens that infect more than one
host species more likely to emerge than single-host species
[Global Chapters 5, 6, 7, 8]. The increase in disease emergence will affect both developed and developing countries.
Integrating policies and programs across the food chain can
help reduce the spread of infectious diseases. Examples include crop rotation, increasing crop diversity, and reducing the density, transport, and exchange of farm animals
across large geographic distances. Focusing on interventions
at one point along the food chain may not provide the most
efficient and effective control of infectious diseases. For
zoonotic diseases, this requires strengthening coordination
between veterinary and public health infrastructure and
training. Identification of and effective response to emerging infectious diseases requires enhancing epidemiologic
and laboratory capacity, and providing training opportunities [CWANA Chapter 5; Global Chapters 5, 6, 7, 8; NAE
Chapter 4; SSA Chapter 3]. Additional funding is needed
to improve current activities and to build capacity in many
regions of the world.
Detection, surveillance, and response programs are the
primary methods for identifying and controlling emerging
infectious diseases. Early detection, through surveillance
at local, national, regional, and international levels, and
rapid [and appropriate] intervention are needed [CWANA
Chapter 5; Global Chapters 5, 6, 7, 8; NAE Chapter 4; SSA
Chapter 3]. Effective public health systems and regulatory
frameworks are needed to support these activities, as well
as diagnostic tools, disease investigation laboratories and
research centers, and safe and effective treatments and/or
vaccines. Although AKST under development will advance
control methods, there is limited capacity for implementation in many low income countries. For animal diseases,
traceability, animal identification, and labeling (with associate educational initiatives) are needed. Recent advances in
collection and availability of climate and ecosystems information can be used to develop forecasts of epidemics across
spatial and temporal scales [Global Chapter 6]. Increasing
understanding of the ecology of emerging infectious dis-

11/3/08 12:08:31 PM

58 | IAASTD Synthesis Report

eases can be integrated with environmental data to forecast
where and when epidemics are likely to arise. Combined
with effective response, these early warning systems can reduce morbidity and mortality in animals and humans. Additional research, improved coordination across actors at
all scales, and better understanding of effective implementation processes are needed [CWANA Chapter 5; Global 5,
6, 7, 8; LAC Chapters 2, 3; NAE Chapter 4; SSA Chapter
3]. Information and communication technologies are creating opportunities for faster and more effective communication of disease threats and responses [Global Chapter 6].
Integrated vector and pest management are effective in controlling many infectious diseases, including environmental
modification, such as filling and draining small water bodies,

01-SR.indd 58

environmental manipulation, such as alternative wetting
and drying of rice fields, and reducing contacts between
vectors and humans, such as using cattle in some regions
to divert malaria mosquitoes from people [Global Chapters
6, 7, 8; NAE Chapter 4]. Because the relationships between
agriculture and infectious disease are not always straightforward, greater understanding is needed of the ecosystem
and socioeconomic consequences of changes in agricultural
systems and practices, and how these factors interact to alter
the risk of emerging diseases.
Ways forward require human health to be seen by all actors as an explicit goal to be tackled by AKST. This requires
integration and mainstreaming of public health throughout
agricultural policies and systems.

11/3/08 12:08:31 PM

Natural Resources Management

Writing Team: Lorna Michael Butler (USA), Roger Leakey
(Australia), Jean Albergel (France), Elizabeth Robinson (UK)

Soil, water, plant and animal diversity, vegetation cover,
renewable energy sources, climate, and ecosystem services
are fundamental capital in support of life on earth [Global
Chapter 1]. Natural resource systems, especially those of
soil, water and biodiversity, are fundamental to the structure
and function of agricultural systems and to social and environmental sustainability [Global Chapter 3]. The IAASTD
report focuses primarily on the agronomic use of natural
resources. Extractive processes such as logging, wild harvesting of non-timber forest products, captive fisheries [SSA
SDM], while recognized as being important, are only addressed minimally here as they have been the focus of other
global assessments.
In many parts of the world natural resources have been
treated as though unlimited, and totally resilient to human
exploitation. This perception has exacerbated the conflicting agricultural demands on natural capital, as have other
exploitative commercial enterprises [ESAP Chapters 2, 4;
Global Chapter 1]. Both have affected local cultures and
had undesirable long-term impacts on the sustainability of
resources [NAE Chapter 4]. The consequences include: land
degradation (about 2,000 million ha of land worldwide)
affecting 38% of the world’s cropland; reduced water and
nutrient availability (quality and access) [Global Chapter 1].
Agriculture already consumes 70% of all global freshwater
withdrawn worldwide and has depleted soil nutrients, resulting in N, P and K deficiencies covering 59%, 85%, and 90%
of harvested area respectively in the year 2000 coupled with
a 1,136 million tonnes yr−1 loss of total global production
[Global Chapter 3]. Additionally, salinization affects about
10% of the world’s irrigated land, while the loss of biodiversity and its associated agroecological functions [estimated
to provide economic benefits of US$1,542 billion per year
(Global Chapter 9)] adversely affect productivity especially
in environmentally sensitive lands in sub-Saharan Africa
and Latin America [CWANA Chapter 2; Global Chapter
1, 6; LAC Chapter 1; SSA Chapter 5]. Increasing pollution
also contributes to water quality problems affecting rivers and streams: about 70% in the USA [Global Chapter
8]. There have also been negative impacts of pesticide and
fertilizer use on soil, air and water resources throughout
the world. For example the amount of nitrogen used per
unit of crop output increased greatly between 1961 and
1996.

The severity of these consequences varies with geographic location and access to the various capitals. This
complex of interacting factors often leads to reduced livelihoods and diminishing crop yields, and the further refueling
of natural resource degradation, especially in marginal areas
[CWANA Chapter 1; ESAP Chapter 4; Global Chapters 3,
6; SSA Chapter 5]. The degradation of natural resources is
both biophysically and socially complex. Interrelated factors drive degradation, for example: commerce, population
growth, land fragmentation, inappropriate policy, customary practices and beliefs, poverty and weak institutions (customary and property rights, credit for the poor, crop and
livestock insurance), can all be drivers of degradation [SSA
Chapter 5]. On the other hand, there are examples where
agricultural practices have been developed to protect agroecosystems [LAC Chapter 1; SSA Chapter 5], while producing marketable commodities [Global Chapter 3]. Examples
include terracing, watershed and habitat management,
protection of vulnerable landscapes, pastoral systems [SSA
Chapter 5], and micro-irrigation technologies [Global Chapter 3], and, more recently, policies promoting biocontrol,
organic food production, and fair trade [CWANA Chapter
2; LAC Chapter 1]. Additionally, loss of genetic resources
has been partially addressed by establishment of gene banks
and germplasm collections [Global Chapter 3]. However,
the overexploitation paradigm still dominates.
Challenges
To improve the productivity of agriculture and enhance sustainable rural development there is the need to:
1.	 Assess the trends in the loss of natural capital (soil, water, plant and animal diversity, vegetation cover, energy,
climate, ecosystem services) due to over-exploitation.
2.	 Understand the factors resulting in lower environmental
resilience and the failure to achieve optimum agricultural output by the rural poor.
3.	 Mitigate and reverse the severe impacts on the environment and the livelihoods of poor people, for example
resolving loss of soil fertility, erosion, soil salinization,
decreased water quality and availability, decreased biodiversity and ecosystem services.
4.	 Resolve the biophysically and socially complex issues of
NRM using formal, local and traditional knowledge, and
collective, participatory and anticipatory decision making with diverse stakeholders across multiple scales.
5.	 Adopt a holistic or systems-oriented approach, to capture the needs for sustainable production and to address

59

01-SR.indd 59

11/3/08 12:08:32 PM

60 | IAASTD Synthesis Report

Proportion of water withdrawal for agriculture, 2001

No data

< 25%

25–50%

50–75%

75–90%

75–90%

SOURCE: FAO, Aquastat, 2007

Design: UNEP/GRID-Arendal, Ketill Berger

Figure
water withdrawals
as proportion
FigureSR-NRM1.
SR-NRM2. Agricultural
Ag. water withdrawals
as proportion
of total. of total water withdrawals.

the complexity of food and other production systems in
different ecologies, locations and cultures so integrating food and nutritional security with natural resource
management.
6.	 Determine who pays for the remediation of overexploitation and/or pollution of the natural resource system
on which everyone depends.
Options for action relative to development and
sustainability goals
The AKST available to resolve NRM exploitation issues like
the mitigation of soil fertility depletion through synthetic
inputs and natural processes, and the impacts of tillage on
compaction and organic matter decomposition are often
available and well understood. However, there is a need for
greater knowledge and understanding of interactions between the agricultural system and the natural environment.
Nevertheless, the resolution of natural resource challenges
will demand new and creative approaches by stakeholders
with diverse backgrounds, skills and priorities. Capabilities
for working together at multiple scales and across different
social and physical environments are not well developed.
For example, farmer groups and civil society members have

01-SR.indd 60

rarely been involved in agricultural research, in shaping
natural resource management policy, or in working partnerships with the private sector to achieve integrated natural
resource management.
Causes of natural resource degradation and of declining
productivity are multiple and complex. New AKST based
on multidisciplinary approaches (biophysical, behavioral
and social) is necessary for a better understanding of this
complexity in NRM [NAE SDM Key Message 5; SSA Chapter 5].
Identify and resolve underlying causes of declining
productivity embedded in natural resource mismanagement through the adaptation of existing technologies and the creation of innovative solutions.
•	 Land degradation and nutrient depletion: The degradation of land is most often attributed to factors such as
the loss of vegetation due to deforestation, overgrazing, land clearance, land abandonment, and inappropriate agricultural practices. It arises from population
pressure, lack of appropriate technical support and
knowledge, unavailability of inputs (fertilizers, water),
conflicting social pressures, commercial incentives, sub-

11/3/08 12:08:33 PM

Themes: Natural Resources Management | 61

Changes in available water
END OF 20TH CENTURY

PREDICTED CHANGE – END OF 21ST CENTURY

Less than 400 mm

Drop by 10–20%

400–1000 mm

Drop by up to 10%

More than 1000 mm

Increase by up to 10%
Increase by 10–20%

SOURCE: Maarten de Wit and Jacek Stankiewicz, Science 31 March 2006,

Design: UNEP/GRID-Arendal, Ketill Berger

Figure
SR-NRM2.
Changes
in available
water in Africa: end of 20 and 21 centuries.
Figure SR-NRM3.
Changes
in available
water in Africa.
th

sidies and tariffs promoting non-sustainable practices,
etc. Some proven technologies for mitigating land degradation include improved land husbandry, use of artificial and natural fertilizers, diversification and rotation
of cropping systems, minimum or no-tillage, contour
hedges, plowing, terracing and agroforestry practices,
organic and conservation farming [CWANA Chapter 2;
ESAP Chapter 5; Global Chapter 3; LAC Chapter 1;
SSA Chapter 5].
Salinity and acidification: Causes of salinity usually result from excessive irrigation and evaporation of soil
moisture that draws up certain soil minerals, especially
salt [CWANA Chapter 2]. Causes of acidification are
related to overextraction of basic nutrient elements
through continuous harvesting and inappropriate ferti-

340

340

320

320

300

300

280

1960

280

1960

Meat Meat

34
30

Cereals
Cereals

26
22

1970

1970

1980

1980

1990

1990

2000

34
30
26
22

2000

80
60
40
20
0

Millions tonnes. World, excluding former USSR

360

38

Per capita meat production (kg)

360

38

Per capita meat production (kg)

380

Per capita cereal production (kg)

Per capita cereal production (kg)

380

lizer applications. The salinity problem can be reduced
by minimizing irrigation application, and lowering water tables by appropriate tree planting, drainage systems; while acidification can be reduced by liming and
addition of organic residues [Global Chapter 3; LAC
Chapter 4].
Loss of biodiversity (above and below ground) and associated agroecological functions: Loss of biological diversity results from repeated use of monoculture practices;
excessive use of agrichemicals; agricultural expansion
in to fragile environments; excessive land clearance that
eliminates patches of natural vegetation; and neglect
of indigenous knowledge and local priorities. This may
be resolved by diversified farming systems; land-use
mosaics; mixed cropping systems that integrate peren-

•	

GlobalGlobal
total use
total
ofuse
nitrogen
of nitrogen
and phosphorus
and phosphorus
fertilizers.
fertilizers.

Global
Global
trendstrends
in cereal
in cereal
and meat
and meat
production
production

Millions tonnes. World, excluding former USSR

•	

st

1960

80
60

Nitrogen
Nitrogen

40
20
0

1960

Phosphorus
Phosphorus

1970

1970

1980

1980

1990

1990

2000

2000

0.28
0.24

0.20

0.20

0.16

0.16

3.0

Pesticides
Pesticides
Millions tonnes

0.24

3.0

WaterWater

Millions tonnes

0.28

bal irrigation (billions [109 ] ha)

01-SR.indd 61

bal irrigation (billions [109 ] ha)

Increased
Increased
use ofuse
irrigation
of irrigation
Total global
Total
global
pesticides
pesticides
production
Figure
SR-NRM3.
Annual
global cereal production/annual
application
of Nproduction
(Source: Tilman et al., 2002).
SR-NRM4.
Global
cereal
production/global
application of N global

2.0

2.0

1.0

1.0

11/3/08 12:08:36 PM

62 | IAASTD Synthesis Report

•	

•	

nials (cash crops or domestically important indigenous
species); conservation farming and organic agriculture;
integrated pest management; conserving or introducing
biological corridors; controlling stocking densities; and
ensuring pollination, seed dispersal, life cycles and food
chains [Global Chapter 3; SSA Chapter 5].
Reduced water availability, quality and access: Diffuse
pollution from agriculture is a major factor in damaging
water quality. Reduced water availability arises from
river capture, exploitation of aquifers and ground water, drainage of wetlands, and deforestation. This can be
countered by using appropriately constructed holding
ponds, use of water-saving irrigation techniques, rainwater capture, riparian strips and erosion control, minimized use of agrichemicals, and improved efficiency in
the use of manures and fertilizers [CWANA Chapter 2;
Global Chapter 3; NAE Chapter 6].
Increasing pollution (air, water, land): This may be
brought about by waste dumping, chemical accidents,
unsuitable cultivation and land use practices that emit
greenhouse gases, emissions from unregulated industry, etc. Pollution may be reduced by regulation (local,
national, global); promotion of best practices for land/
water use, e.g., carbon sequestration [CWANA Chapter 2; SR Part II: Climate Change]; reducing pesticide
use; biological control; use of clean energy alternatives
(biofuels, solar/wind power); etc. [Global Chapter 3; SR
Part II: Bioenergy]

Strengthen human resources in the support of natural
capital through increased investment (research, training and education, partnerships, policy) in promoting
the awareness of the societal costs of degradation
and value of ecosystem services.
•	 Investment to promote awareness of resource resilience,
protection and renewal: This begins with creating understanding and awareness about sustainability issues
and their impacts on various populations, environments and economies among national and international
policy makers, donors, corporate business leaders and
development agencies. This also requires public understanding of the issues. There are some good examples
of two types of organizations that have brought part
of the message to public attention. One is small organizations like Fair Trade and WWF; the other is global
level policy, as exemplified by the Millennium Development Goals and the Kyoto Protocol to mitigate climate
change. The latter have benefited from wide media attention. Agricultural sustainability would benefit similarly from media coverage conferring increased public
understanding and support.
•	 Investment in dissemination and implementation of
promising multi-scale and commercially viable “packages” involving partnerships, technologies, appropriate
practices, research and training programs. Examples
include Daimler-Chrysler’s (Brazil) production of raw
materials such as gums, oils, resins, and fibers for car
manufacture by rural communities [Global Chapter 3];
ecoagriculture and ecotourism in which local communities, often with private sector partners, benefit from
external interest in for example, local wildlife, unique

01-SR.indd 62

•	

•	

•	

•	

•	

habitats, waterways, and forests; and use and protection of traditional knowledge and farmers’ rights for
better access to traditional foods, which can also enhance community empowerment [LAC Chapter 1].
Investment in research targeting natural resource resilience and renewal and, simultaneously, strengthening local capabilities and ownership for wide scale adoption.
Examples include rebuilding natural capital (replanting watersheds, soil fertility replenishment, replanting
trees in the landscape); protection of water ways with
riparian buffer strips; domestication of new tree crops
through community action; wetland and swamp conservation; restoration of hydrological processes; and
documenting and using traditional knowledge of natural resource conservation [ESAP Chapters 3, 4; Global
Chapters 3, 6; LAC Chapters 1, 4; NAE Chapter 6].
Investment in research targeting mitigation of climate
change and loss of biodiversity [NAE Chapter 6]. Examples include developing better understandings of
the role of biodiversity in agroecosystem functions and
wildlife conservation through diversified farming systems that support local livelihoods [Global Chapter 3;
SR Part II: Climate Change].
Investment in national, regional and global structures
and partnerships to protect natural resource data collections. Examples of secure data banks and collections
include GEMS, IPGRI, and indigenous knowledge collections [see section on traditional knowledge and innovation; CWANA SDM; NAE Chapter 6].
Investment to promote improved models of extension
and outreach by engaging local people with scientists
in participatory learning processes for NRM, and in
adapting improved NRM technologies to local circumstances for a better informed public with the capabilities to diagnose, manage, and monitor natural resource
issues and changes [LAC Chapter 5; NAE SDM; SSA
Chapter 5].
Investment in cost-effective monitoring of the state
of natural resources to generate long-term trends and
knowledge about the state of natural capital.

Promote agricultural production based on less exploitative NRM and strategies for resource resilience,
protection and renewal through innovative processes,
programs, policies and institutions.
•	 Promote research “centers of AKST-NRM excellence”.
These would facilitate less exploitative NRM and strategies for resource resilience, protection and renewal
through innovative two-way learning processes in research and development, monitoring and policy formulation [CWANA Chapter 2; NAE Chapter 6].
•	 Develop a more multifunctional approach to agriculture [NAE Chapter 6]. This can be achieved through
integrating production of food crops within integrated
farming systems that maintain environmental services
such as carbon sequestration, soil organic management,
water and nutrient cycling [NAE SDM]. This would
benefit from the integration of local insights on land
tenure and management regimes, gender-related patterns of resource access and control and participatory
decision-making and implementation [ESAP Chapter 4;

11/3/08 12:08:37 PM

Themes: Natural Resources Management | 63

•	

•	

•	

Global Chapters 3, 5]. An example from West Africa
demonstrates the possibility of improving the livelihoods of smallholder farmers by integrating trees into
farming systems [Global Chapter 3], and the participatory domestication of traditionally important species
[Global Chapter 3]. This example includes rural employment diversification (e.g., value adding) through
postharvest activities [SSA Chapter 5].
Promote policy reform to instigate long-term improvements on existing agricultural land. This will strengthen
ecosystem services, prevent migration to forest and/or
marginal lands, and agricultural land abandonment
[Global Chapter 3; LAC Chapter 5].
Improve or establish land tenure institutions and policies. This would include the promotion of common pool
resource management and use (water, land, fisheries,
forests); prevention of loss (or lack of clarity) of land
rights and security, tenure inequity and lack of rights,
particularly on the part of women and landless people
[Global Chapter 3, 7; LAC Chapter 5; NAE SDM; SSA
Chapter 5]; and appropriate natural resource allocation
mechanisms, for example pricing, regulation, negotiation, enforcement, etc. Long-term improvements on existing agricultural land in order to prevent migration
to forest and/or marginal lands, and agricultural land
abandonment [Global Chapter 3].
The issue of who pays for environmental degradation
is increasingly resolved by the principle “the polluter
pays.” This is becoming an increasingly contentious
issue as the population of the world grows more reliant on natural resources that are global public goods.
Market mechanisms that address this challenge include
Payment for Environmental Services (PES) that directly rewards improved management practices through
transfers to those who protect ecosystem services from
those who benefit. The Clean Development Mechanism
links poor and rich countries through carbon trading.
However, the costs of engaging in these mechanisms, and
other market-based opportunities such as certification,
are often beyond the reach of the poorest farmers [CWANA Chapter 2; Global Chapter 3; SSA Chapter 5].

Create an enabling environment that builds NRM capacity for concerted action among stakeholders and
their organizations.
NRM stakeholders are likely to be more effective in shaping NRM policy when they have improved understanding
of NRM issues, know the policy formulation process and
have experience of working in partnership with public and
private sectors [NAE SDM]. Multi-disciplinary teams have
proven effective [CWANA Chapter 2; ESAP Chapter 4; LAC
Chapter 4].
•	 For marginalized groups (e.g., women, youth, refugees,
landless peoples, HIV-AIDS affected communities): Develop experiential learning, extension programs and
primary and secondary education targeting improved
NRM [Global Chapter 3; NAE SDM]. Important
topics include use of information technology (IT) for
NRM knowledge access, resource restoration, waterharvesting practices, land conservation and environmentally friendly farming technologies, collaborative

01-SR.indd 63

•	

•	

management, crop and animal domestication tools and
strategies, low-input integrated approaches to farming
(INRM, IPM), postharvest value-addition and marketing
for business development, financial management, entrepreneurship and employment generation [ESAP Chapter
3; Global Chapters 3, 5; LAC Chapter 5; NAE SDM].
For community leaders and local government officials:
Develop capabilities that build capacity for multi-stakeholder partnerships [NAE Chapter 6], NRM leadership skills [Global Chapter 3] including IT capabilities.
Important topics include land tenure policy; conflict
resolution, feasibility planning, impact assessment, participatory group processes for natural resource management, restoration and recycling; financial management,
entrepreneurship and employment generation; NRM
strategies and technologies [Global Chapters 3, 5; LAC
Chapter 5; NAE SDM].
For national and international policy makers: Initiate
learning opportunities to better understand the importance of IT connectivity and skill development, local and
traditional knowledge in all aspects of NRM for agricultural research and development [Global Chapters
3, 5; SR Part II: TKI]. Additionally, promote models of
extension and outreach that engage local people in participatory learning processes for NRM, and in adapting
improved NRM technologies to local circumstances and
needs, e.g., farmer organizations, farmer-to-farmer extension, participatory plant breeding [Global Chapter 3].

Facilitate natural resource management partnerships
for different purposes to enhance benefits from natural resource assets for the collective good and to mitigate against natural hazards.
NRM partnerships are beneficial for landscape management and planning, technology and market development,
policy development, research and rural development. AKST
can support innovative partnerships across institutions for
multi-stakeholder NR management.
•	 At local, national, regional and international levels, create local-global collaborative research and development
partnerships, based on mutual understanding, trust and
goals. Appropriate partners may include public and
private sector representatives. In commercially oriented
partnerships, there should be recognition of the development of IP and other mechanisms that benefit local
partners and communities [ESAP Chapters 3, 4; Global
Chapter 3; LAC Chapter 4].
•	 Create partnerships and networks involving NGOs,
CSOs, farmer field schools, government, private sector to build on shared knowledge and decision-making.
This may include training and mentorship to optimize
implementation and outcomes. Long-term partnerships
are essential for ensuring enduring capacity to benefit
the collective good [Global Chapter 3; LAC Chapter 4;
NAE SDM].
•	 Ensure that each partner’s contributions, together, represent the total needs of the partnership. Trained facilitators can help strengthen the capacity of multi-stakeholder partnerships.
•	 Examine and implement policies that encourage constructive NRM partnerships. This would include limit-

11/3/08 12:08:37 PM

64 | IAASTD Synthesis Report

Table SR-NRM1. Globalization and Localization Activities.

Globalization

Localization

Tropical plantations for export markets

Traditional subsistence agriculture

International commodity research by CGIAR

National research by NARS
National extension services

Green Revolution

NGOs and CBOs

Agribusiness for fertilizers/pesticides and seeds

Farmer training schools
Participatory Rural Appraisal

Multinational companies for commodity trade

Participatory domestication and breeding

WTO trade agreements

Fair trade

Biopiracy

Water-user associations

Biotechnology

Promotion of indigenous species/germplasm
Equity and gender initiatives
Recognition of farmer/community
IPR
Agroforestry for soil fertility management

Table SR-NRM1. Globalization and Localization activities

ing or removing policies that constraint these partnerships [LAC Chapter 4; NAE Chapter 6].
Connect globalization and localization pathways that
link locally generated NRM knowledge and innovations to public and private AKST to achieve more equitable and sustainable rural development.
Since the mid-20th century, globalization has been a dominant force in formal AKST. Public sector agriculture research, international trade and marketing, and international
policy have been influential forces shaping globalization.
Localization initiatives (Global Chapter 3; NAE Chapter 6)
have come from the grassroots of civil society and involve
locally based innovations that meet local needs of people
and communities. Some current initiatives are drawing the
two pathways together in ways that promote local-global
partnerships for expanded economic opportunities. This is
particularly true in the developing world in relation to the
sustainable use of natural resources in agriculture [Global
Chapter 3; NAE Chapter 6]. Natural resource management
initiatives that illustrate how to bring localization and globalization together include:
•	 Promotion of customary foods to meet the needs and
priorities of local people for self sufficiency, nutritional
and food security, income generation and employment
[Global Chapter 3].
•	 Domestication and commercialization of indigenous foodrelated plants and animal species [Global Chapter 3].
Global initiatives for sustainable development have brought
attention to NRM issues at local and global levels, and have
been effective in triggering the formation of civil society organizations, thereby stimulating new linkages with regional
and/or global partners. Since the onset of the millennium
some of these include: The Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety

01-SR.indd 64

to the Convention on Biological Diversity (Montreal, Canada) in 2001, the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture (Rome, Italy) in 2001, the
World Summit on Sustainable Development (Johannesburg,
South Africa) in 2002, and the World Food Summit (Rome,
Italy) in 2002. Similarly, several international and regional
assessments of relevance to NRM have promoted sustainable practices and people-oriented policies for addressing
these issues. Some of these include: Millennium Ecosystem
Assessment (2005); Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change (1990, 1992, 1994, 2001, 2006); Comprehensive
Assessment of Water in Agriculture (2007); Global Environmental Outlook; European Union Water Initiative; and
European Union Soil Initiative.
Ways forward
Natural resource management is central to agricultural production and productivity, maintenance of critical ecosystem
services and sustainable rural livelihoods. Agriculture represents one important management option, which when carried out in harmony with the landscape, can be beneficial
to a wide range of stakeholders at all levels of community
development [NAE-SDM]. It is evident that the severity of
uncontrolled exploitation of natural capital is having major
negative impacts on the livelihoods of both rural and urban
people. By drawing down so severely on natural capital,
rather than living on the interest, we are jeopardizing future
generations. The challenges can be resolved if AKST is used
and developed creatively with active participation among
various stakeholders across multiple scales. This must be
done in order to reverse the misuse of natural capital and
ensure the judicious use and renewal of water bodies, soils,
biodiversity, ecosystems services, fossil fuels and atmospheric quality for future generations.

11/3/08 12:08:38 PM

Trade and Markets

Writing Team: Dev Nathan (India), Erika Rosenthal (USA), Joan
Kagwanja (Kenya)

The challenge of targeting market and trade policy to enhance the ability of agricultural and AKST systems to
strengthen food security, maximize environmental sustainability, and support small-scale farmers to spur poverty reduction and drive development is immediate. Agriculture
is a fundamental instrument for sustainable development;
about 70% of the world’s poor are rural and most are involved in farming. National policy needs to arrive at a balance between a higher prices which can benefit producers
and lead to a more vibrant rural economy, and lower prices,
which, although volatile on the international market, can
improve food access for poor consumers. The steep secular
decline in commodity prices and terms of trade for agriculture-based economies has had significant negative effects on
the millions of small-scale resource-poor producers [ESAP
Chapter 3; Global Chapter 7]. Structural overproduction
in NAE countries has contributed to these depressed world
commodity prices. This is also a challenge in many developing country markets where overproduction of tropical
commodities, particularly through the emergence of new
producers who are willing to accept lower returns than established producers, has led to price collapse.
Under these conditions, a “business as usual” trade and
market policy approach will not advance IAASTD objectives.
There is growing concern that developing countries have
opened their agricultural sectors to international competition too extensively and too quickly, before basic institutions
and infrastructure are in place, thus weakening agricultural
sectors with long-term negative effects for poverty, food security and the environment. Reciprocity of access to markets (sometimes referred to as a “level playing field”) between
countries at vastly different stages of agricultural development
does not translate into equal opportunity [ESAP Chapter 3].
Agricultural trade offers opportunities for developing
countries to benefit from larger scale production for global
markets, acquire some commodities cheaper than would be
possible through domestic production, and gain access to
new forms of AKST and equipment (e.g., fertilizers, highyield seed varieties, pump sets, etc.) not produced domestically. Agricultural trade, thus, can offer opportunities for
the poor, but there are major distributional impacts among
countries and within countries that in many cases have not
been favorable for small-scale farmers and rural livelihoods.
The poorest developing countries are net losers under most
trade liberalization scenarios.

Trade policy reform aimed at providing a fairer global
trading system can make a positive contribution to the alleviation of poverty and hunger. Approaches that are tailored
to distinct national circumstances and different stages of
development and target increasing the profitability of smallscale farmers are effective for reducing poverty in developing countries [CWANA; ESAP; Global; LAC; SSA].
Flexibility and differentiation in trade policy frameworks
(i.e., “special and differential treatment”) will enhance developing countries’ ability to benefit from agricultural trade;
pursue food security, poverty reduction and development
goals; and minimize potential dislocations associated with
trade liberalization. The principle of non-reciprocal access,
i.e., that the developed countries and wealthier developing
countries should grant non-reciprocal access to countries
less developed than themselves, has a significant history
and role to play in trade relations to foster development.
Preferential market access for poorer developing countries,
least developed countries and small island economies will
be important.
Global Challenges
For many developing countries sustainable food security
depends on local food production, while for some arid and
semiarid countries with limited natural resources bases increased food security will require increased trade. Ensuring
policy space for all these countries to maintain prices for
crops that are important to food security and rural livelihoods is essential. Agricultural policies in industrialized
countries, including export subsidies, have reduced commodity prices and thus food import costs; however this
has undermined the development of the agricultural sector
in developing countries, and thus agriculture’s significant
potential growth multiplier for the whole economy. Reducing industrialized countries’ agricultural subsidies and
other trade distorting policies is a priority, particularly for
commodities such as sugar, groundnuts and cotton where
developing countries compete. Commitments to reducing
dumping, or the sale of commodities at below the cost of
production thus undermining national food production and
marketing channels are equally important.
Agricultural trade is increasingly organized in global
chains, dominated by a few large transnational buyers
(trading companies, agrifood processors and companies involved in production of commodities). In these globalized
chains primary producers often capture only a fraction of
the international price of a trade commodity, so the poverty
reduction and rural development effects of integration in
65

01-SR.indd 65

11/3/08 12:08:38 PM

66 | IAASTD Synthesis Report

Trends in real commodity prices
1000

900

800
Sisal

700

600

Bananas

500

400

300
Jute
Rice

Wheat

200

Coffe
Maize

Sorghum
Cocoa

100

Cotton
Butter
Hides

Rubber
Beef
0

1970s

1980s

1990s

Average
2000–05

2003

2004

2005

Sugar
Tea

Base year is 2000.
Basis for prices for individual commodities:
banana, Ecuador (US$/tonne);beef, Argentina (US cents/lb); butter,
New Zealand (US cents/lb); cocoa, ICCO indicator price (US cents/lb); coffee,
ICO indicator price (US cents/lb); cotton and hides, United States of America (US cents/lb);
jute, Bangladesh (US$/tonne); maize, United States of America (US$/tonne);
rice, Thailand (US$/tonne); rubber, Malaysia (US cents/lb); sisal, East Africa (US$/tonne);
sorghum, United States of America (US$/tonne); sugar, ISA indicator price (US cents/lb);
tea, FAO indicator price (US$/kg); wheat, Argentina (US$/tonne).

Figure SR-TM2. Level playing field.

global supply chains have been far less than optimal [ESAP;
NAE; Global]. Building countervailing negotiating power,
such as farmer cooperatives and networks, will be important to help resource poor farmers increase their share of
value captured.
Agriculture generates large environmental externalities including accelerated loss of biodiversity and ecosystem
services such as water cycling and quality, increased energy
costs and greenhouse gas emissions, and environmental
health impacts of synthetic pesticides [ESAP Chapter 3;
Global; NAE]. Many of these impacts derive from the failure of markets to value and internalize environmental and
social harms in the price of traded agricultural and other
products, or to provide incentives for sustainability. AKST
has great potential to reverse this trend, aiding in the improvement of natural resource management and the provisioning of agroenvironmental services.

Cost of coffee from farm gate in Uganda to coffee shop in UK
(price goes from US$0.14 to US$42)
45
40
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0

Farm gate

Trader
price

Mombasa
(port,
Uganda)

Felixstowe
UK

Product
cost after
processing
in factory

Supermarket
When
shelf price
made into
coffee

SOURCE: The State of Agricultural Commodity Markets 2006, FAO
Design: UNEP/GRID-Arendal, Ketill Berger

Figure SR-TM1.
Trends
in real
commodity
prices.prices.
Figure
SR-TM1.
Trends
in real
commodity

01-SR.indd 66

SOURCE: Shaun Ferris and Peter Robbins, 2003

IAASTD. Design: UNEP/GRID-Arendal, Ketill Berger

Figure SR-TM3. Cost of coffee from farm gate to coffee shop.

11/3/08 12:08:40 PM

Themes: Trade and Markets | 67

Market concentration offers fewer
opportunities for small scale farmers
Consumers

Retailers

Processors

Market power and influence
is concentrated in trading,
processing and retail

Domestic traders

Small-scale farmers

Design: UNEP/GRID-Arendal, Ketill Berger

Figure SR-TM4. Market concentration offers fewer opportunities
for small-scale farmers.

Finally, improved local, national and global governance
will enhance the ability of AKST systems to maximize agriculture as a driver for development. Governance is weakest
in many agriculture-based developing countries, and governance of the agricultural sector is weak compared to other
sectors. Enhanced global governance is also needed to support national sustainable development agendas.
Synthesis of priority challenges across regions
Many of the urgent challenges reported in the IAASTD are
widely shared across the developing regions, or indeed, as
in the case of climate and water crises, around the world.
Food security is a priority agricultural trade policy challenge across the developing South. Trade policies designed
to ensure sufficient levels of domestic production of food
(not just sufficient currency reserves to import food) are
an important component of food security and sovereignty
strategies for many countries [CWANA; ESAP; LAC]. Approaches to balance domestic production with food stocks
and foreign exchange reserves are noted in ESAP. A number
of regions express significant concern over whether smaller
economies would have sufficient foreign exchange reserves
to cover increased food imports in light of declining terms
of trade, and volatile international prices to import food
[ESAP; SSA].
Additionally developing countries face significant new
regulatory costs related to international trade. Tariff revenue
losses have not been made up by other, domestic tax collections; tariffs used to represent a significant percentage of tax
revenues in many developing countries. There are concerns
that the high costs of regulatory measures to comply with

01-SR.indd 67

sanitary and phytosanitary standards will divert resources
form national food and animal safety priorities. Investments
to implement these standards should be approached as part
of improvements needed to protect local populations from
food-borne diseases and not only to comply with trade regulations.
Increased technical and financial assistance, as contemplated in the SPS Agreement, will be required to build and
improve developing countries’ own systems of quality control for meeting health and safety standards. Small producers, in particular, need technical, financial and management
support to improve their production to meet health and
safety standards.
Improving small scale farmers’ linkages with local, urban and regional markets, as well as international markets,
is noted across the developing country regions. Enhancing
regional market integration to increase the size of markets
(creating more constant demand and less price volatility),
and negotiate from common platforms is a priority in SSA,
LAC and ESAP. Assisting the small-scale farmer sector to access markets on more favorable terms, and capture greater
value in global chains is emphasized [CWANA; ESAP; LAC;
SSA].
Promoting investment for local value addition to increase diversity and competitiveness of agricultural products
and generate off farm rural employment is a priority across
the developing regions. It is widely noted that tariff escalation in industrialized countries has made it more difficult to
stimulate investment in local value addition, exacerbating
terms of trade problems [ESAP; LAC; SSA]. Concerns over
preference erosion are also widespread [CWANA; Global;
LAC; SSA].
The expansion of the agricultural landscape into forested areas and the potential for land planted for biofuels
feedstocks to displace food crops and increase deforestation is a concern across the regions. Concerns about the
vulnerability of agriculture to climate and water crises, equitable risk management and adaptation approaches, and
the urgency of focusing AKST to reduce the environmental
footprint of agriculture, emerge as clear global priorities
[CWANA; ESAP; Global; LAC; NAE; SSA].
There is a concern expressed in many regions that intellectual property (IP) regimes have contributed to a shift in
AKST research and development away from public goods
provisioning. IP rights may restrict access to research, technologies, and genetic materials, with consequences for food
security and development [ESAP; Global; LAC]. Improving
the equitable capture of benefits from AKST systems is a
priority in LAC and other regions. There often is a trade-off
between rewarding the development of AKST through IP
rights and, inhibiting dissemination and utilization. Countries may consider regional and bilateral cooperation in the
formulation of national IPR systems and removing IPR from
the ambit of WTO trade rules. Allowing greater scope to
more effectively addressing situations involving traditional
knowledge and genetic resources in international IP regimes
would help advance development and sustainability goals.
Finally, the need to significantly improve the domestic
policies for sustainable agricultural development to advance
IAASTD objectives is noted across the developing South
[CWANA; ESAP; Global; LAC; SSA]. This includes increas-

11/3/08 12:08:41 PM

68 | IAASTD Synthesis Report

ing the security of access and tenure to land and resources;
targeting AKST research, development and delivery to meet
the needs of small-scale farmers; and increasing investments
in infrastructure such as post-harvest capacity, market feeder
roads, and information services. Collective and individual
legal rights to land and productive resources, especially for
women, indigenous people and minorities, are emphasized
in order for these groups to benefit from opportunities created by agricultural trade.
Options for Action to Advance Development and
Sustainability Goals
This section discusses approaches to maximize the ability of
trade and market policy options to facilitate targeted AKST
to increase the agricultural sector’s ability to deliver multiple
public goods functions. There are important synergies and
tradeoffs between policy options that merit special consideration. Potential liberalization of biofuels trade is a clear
example, presenting tradeoffs between food security, greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reductions, and rural livelihoods
which need to be carefully assessed for different technologies and regions, and is addressed at the end of this section
[SR Part II: Bioenergy].
International trade policy options
Trade policy approaches to benefit developing countries include, among other measures, the removal of barriers for
products in which they have a comparative advantage; reduced tariffs for processed commodities; deeper preferential
access to markets for least developed countries, and targeted AKST research, development and dissemination for
the small farm sector to advance development and sustainability goals.
Policy flexibility to allow developing countries to designate “special products,” crucial for food security, livelihood
and development needs as special products for which agreed
tariff reductions will not be fully applied, are critically important to advance development and sustainability goals.
This gives developing countries an important tool to protect
these commodities from intensified import competition, until enhanced AKST, infrastructure and institutional capacity
can make the sector internationally competitive. Similarly
the special safeguard mechanism [SSM], designed to counter
depressed prices resulting from import surges, is an important trade policy tool to avoid possible damage to domestic
productive capacity. At the household level depressed prices
can mean inability to purchase AKST, the need to sell productive assets or missed school fees [ESAP; Global]. World
Trade Organization country categories that better reflect the
heterogeneity of developing countries’ food security situations could help ensure that no food insecure country is denied use of these mechanisms.
The elimination or the substantial reduction of subsidies
and protectionism in industrialized countries, especially for
commodities in which developing countries compete such
as sugar, groundnuts and cotton is important for small-scale
farm sectors around the world. Similarly, plurilateral commitments from major exporting countries to ensure that
there is no trade at prices below the full cost of production
have been put forward as an option to discipline dumping
(which can cause significant damage to small-scale produc-

ers). There is need for increased attempts to find alternate
uses for these commodities, e.g., fruit coating with lac, or
bio-fuel from palm oil. International commodity agreements and supply management for tropical commodities,
with improved governance mechanisms to avoid problems
of free-riding and quota abuse are receiving renewed consideration to address price-depressing structural oversupply.
International trade and domestic policies need to manage
orderly shifts in production centers, enabling producers in
high-cost centers to shift, without the destitution that can be
brought about by pure market-induced transitions. Elimination of escalating tariffs in industrialized countries would
help encourage value-added agroprocessing to help create
off-farm rural jobs and boost rural livelihoods. It would
also assist in diversifying fisheries production and exports
toward value-added processing, reducing fishing pressure
on dwindling stocks.
Increasing support for public sector research to deliver
public goods AKST outputs is important to meet development and sustainability goals, along with implementation of
farmers’ rights to seeds to enhance conservation of agricultural biodiversity and associated informal AKST. Administering effective mechanisms to protect traditional and local
knowledge remains a challenge [ESAP Chapter 3; Global;
LAC.
Replacing revenues lost as a result of reduced import tariffs is essential to advance development agendas. If countries
are not able to make up the revenue difference with other
taxes (i.e., consumption taxes that are economically more
efficient but can be administratively and politically difficult
to collect) the pace of tariff reduction could be reconsidered.
Increased Aid for Trade and development assistance commitments will also be necessary. Priorities should be determined
on an individual country basis, including AKST targeted to
improve competitiveness; strengthen institutional capacity
for trade policy analysis and negotiation; and cover costs
of adjustment for measures that have already been implemented. (Industrialized countries have a right and an obligation to compensate their own losers as well.)
National trade and market policy issues
National agricultural trade policy to advance sustainability
and development goals will depend upon the competitiveness and composition of the sector. Advice to developing
countries has tended to focus on promoting opportunities

Percentage price changes of key commodities

400%

Price changes of selected retail
foodstuffs between 1980 and 2000
Instant coffee

Chocolate bar Processed sugar

Corn flakes

Loaf of bread

300%
200%
100%
0%
0%

FigureSR-TM5a.
SR-TM8a.Price
Pricechange
change
selected
retail
foodstuffs.
Figure
of of
selected
retail
foodstuffs
-100%
Coffee

Cocoa

Sugar

Maize*

Wheat*

Price changes for corresponding farm
gate prices for above foodstuffs, 1980–2002
01-SR.indd 68

* 1980’s to average 2000–05.

11/3/08 12:08:42 PM

400%

Instant coffee

Chocolate bar Processed sugar

Corn flakes

Loaf of bread

300%
200%
100%

Themes: Trade and Markets | 69

0%
0%
-100%

Coffee

Cocoa

Sugar

Maize*

Wheat*

Price changes for corresponding farm
gate prices for above foodstuffs, 1980–2002
* 1980’s to average 2000–05.
SOURCE:
Mark
Lundy, CarlosPercentage
Felipe
Ostertag,
Verónica
Gottret,
Rupert
Best
Shaun Ferris:
Figure
SR-TM5b.
ofMaría
retail
valuevalue
paid to
primary
producer.
Figure
SR-TM8b.
Percentage
of retail
paid
to and
primary
“A Territorial based Approach to Agro-Enterprise Development”. CIAT. “The State of Agricultural
producer.
Commodity Markets 2006”.FAO.
IAASTD. Design: UNEP/GRID-Arendal, Ketill Berger

for increased exports to international markets (traditional
and non-traditional crops) rather than enhancing competitiveness of import substitutes or market opportunities in domestic and regional markets; greater balance among these
policy approaches may be indicated.
It is increasingly recognized that developing countries
at an earlier stage of agricultural development may require
some level of import protection for their producers while
investments are made to improve competitiveness. State
trading enterprises in developing countries (with improved
governance mechanisms to reduce rent-seeking) may provide enhanced market access for marginalized small-scale
farmers in developing countries, creating competition in
concentrated export markets.
Developing countries benefit from improved security
of access and tenure to land and productive resources (including regularization and expansion of land ownership by
small-scale producers and landless workers), and increased
research, development and effective delivery of AKST targeted to the needs of resource-poor producers. Strengthening social capital and political participation for the poor and
vulnerable offer significant opportunities to reduce poverty
and improve livelihoods. Legal rights and access to land and
productive resources such as micro-credit and AKST, is key
to improving equity and the ability of women, indigenous
peoples and other excluded sectors to benefit from trade opportunities.
Options for accessing markets on more favorable
terms
Better access to capital, local value addition and vertical
diversification, improved infrastructure, AKST targeted to
resource poor farmers, facilitation of farmer organization
and collective action to take upscale-sensitive functions and
alternative trading channels can help increase the bargaining position of small producers within global chains [ESAP;
Global; LAC; SSA].
Expanding access to microfinance is an option to allow small-scale producers to access AKST inputs and technologies, and improve investment and asset building. This
includes products and services offered by financial institutions as well as credit and other services offered by value
chain actors. Newer financial services and products, such
as crop or rain insurance, can help reduce risks associated
with adopting new technologies, transitioning to agroenvironmental practices, and innovating production and marketing methods.

01-SR.indd 69

Supporting development of fair trade and certified organic agriculture offers an alternative set of trading standards to mainstream commodity markets that can improve
the environmental and social performance of agriculture,
and provide greater equity in international trade by providing favorable and stable returns to farmers and agricultural
workers. Commitments to source fair trade products, and
support for fair trade networks for basic foodstuffs and
south-south sales, are promising approaches. Certified organic agriculture is value-added agriculture accessible to
resource poor farmers who have extensive local production
knowledge and capacity for innovation. Options to support
the growth of organics include developing capacity in research institutions, crop insurance and preferential credit,
and tax exemptions on inputs and sales. New business
models and private sector sustainable trading initiatives apply these standards to mainstream trading operations via
reducing the cost of certification and compliance for groups
of small scale farmers; improving financial sustainability
through buying relationship that better balance risk, responsibilities and benefits among the chain actors; and increasing
information sharing and capacity building to increase business skills for producer organizations.
Market mechanisms to internalize negative and
reward positive environmental externalities
Key trade and market policies to facilitate AKST’s contribution to reducing agriculture’s large environmental footprint
include removing perverse input subsidies, taxing externalities, better definition and enforcement of property rights,
and developing rewards and markets for agroenvironmental
services.
Payments/reward for environmental services (PES) is an
approach that values and rewards the benefits of ecosystem services provided by sustainable agricultural practices
such as low-input/low-emission production, conservation
tillage, watershed management, agroforestry practices and
carbon sequestration. A key objective of PES schemes is to
generate stable revenue flows that can help ensure long-term
sustainability of the ecosystem that provides the service. To
achieve livelihood benefits as well as environmental benefits,
arrangements should be structured so that small-scale farmers and communities, not just large landowners, may benefit
[Global; LAC; NAE].
Other policy approaches to address the environmental externalities of agriculture include taxes on carbon and
pesticide use to provide incentives to reach internationally
or nationally agreed use-reduction targets, tax exemptions
for biocontrols to promote integrated pest management,
and incentives for “multiple” functions use of agricultural
land to broaden revenue options for land managers. [ESAP;
Global; LAC; NAE] Carbon-footprint labels are an option
to internalize the energy costs of agricultural production via
the application of a market standard. Assistance to smallscale producers, especially tropical producers, to articulate
their carbon rating will be key; in many cases, an integrated
analysis of energy costs and GHG emissions from distant
developing country production will be favorable [Global].
Identification and elimination of environmentally
damaging subsidies, including fishery subsidies is a fundamental. Fisheries subsidies that fuel overexploitation and

11/3/08 12:08:43 PM

70 | IAASTD Synthesis Report

threaten the viability of many wild stocks and the livelihoods
of fishing communities are an example. Options include investment in value-added processing, as well as subsidies for
reduced fishing and for mitigating the negative social and
economic consequences of restructuring the fisheries sector
[Global Chapter 7].
Finally, improving interdisciplinary international cooperation on a wide range of agriculture and environmental
issues is essential to advance development and sustainability
goals. For example, a more comprehensive climate change
agreement could include a modified Clean Development
Mechanism to take fuller advantage of the opportunities offered by the agriculture and forestry sectors to mitigate climate change. The framework would include a comprehensive
set of eligible agricultural mitigation activities, including: afforestation and reforestation; avoided deforestation using a
national sectoral approach rather than a project approach
to minimize issues of leakage; and a wide range of agricultural practices including zero/reduced-till, livestock and rice
paddy management. Other approaches could include reduced agricultural subsidies that promote GHG emissions.
Mechanisms that also encourage and support adaptation,
particularly in regions that are most vulnerable such as in
the tropics and sub-tropics, and that encourage sustainable
development might also be included in a post-Kyoto climate
regime [Global; NAE]. An efficient mechanism to handle
interactions between multilateral environmental agreements
and trade regimes is needed in order to ensure environmental and development concerns are not made secondary to
trade rules.
Enhancing governance
Approaches to address the imbalance in trade relationships
between small-scale producers and a limited number of
powerful traders include the establishment of international
competition policy such as multilateral rules on restrictive
business practices, and an international review mechanism
for proposed mergers and acquisitions among agribusiness
companies that operate in multiple countries simultaneously. The creation of an independent agency to take up the
mandate of the UN Center for Transnational Corporations

01-SR.indd 70

could generate much needed information and analysis to
support sustainable development agendas.
The quality and transparency of governance of AKST
decision making is fundamental, including increased information and analysis for decision makers, and meaningful
participation of all relevant stakeholders. Strengthening developing country capacity to analyze and identify options
that are in their best interest, and play a full and effective
role in the negotiation process, is a prerequisite for a positive and equitable outcome of trade negotiations. Increased
Aid-for-Trade and other support will be necessary. Consideration may also be given to establishing national and regional
teams of experts to analyze the interests of their stakeholder
groups and recommend negotiating positions.
There is often limited information on the potential
social, environmental and economic consequences to different sectors of society and regions of the world, of both
proposed trade agreements and emerging technologies. Increased access to information requirements may be applied
to the trade process, allowing for greater civil society access to information and participation in policy formulation
[Global]. Analysis tailored to countries at different stages
of development, and different characteristics of agriculture
sectors and household economies can better inform policy
choices to address development and sustainability goals.
Developing better tools for assessing tradeoffs in proposed
trade agreements includes increased use of strategic impact
assessments (SIAs). SIAs aim to give negotiators and other
interested stakeholders a fuller understanding of potential
social, economic and environmental risks and benefits before commitments are made.
An intergovernmental framework for comparative technology assessments would increase information for decision
makers on emerging technologies for agriculture, including,
for example, nanotechnologies. This may include creation of
independent international, regional or national bodies dedicated to assessing major new technologies and providing
an early listening and warning system, or the establishment
of a multilateral agreement to promote timely comparative
technology assessment with respect to development and sustainability goals.

11/3/08 12:08:43 PM

Traditional and Local Knowledge and Community-based
Innovations
Writing team: Satinder Bajaj (India), Fabrice Dreyfus (France),
Tirso Gonzales (Peru), Janice Jiggins (UK)

Traditional and local knowledge constitutes a vast realm of
accumulated practical knowledge that decision makers cannot
afford to overlook if development and sustainability goals are
to be achieved [ESAP SDM; Global SDM; Global Chapter 3,
7; 8; NAE SDM; LAC Chapter 1]. Effective, sustainable technologies with wide scale application that have originated in local and traditional AKST are numerous and found worldwide.
They include the use of Golden Weaver ants as a biocontrol
in citrus and mango orchards (Bhutan, Viet Nam and recently
with WARDA’s assistance, introduced to West Africa); stone
lines and planting pits for water harvesting and conservation
of soil moisture (West African savannah belt); qanats and
similar underground water storage and irrigation techniques
(Iran, Afghanistan and other arid areas) [CWANA SDM]; tank
irrigation (India, Sri Lanka); many aspects of agroforestry
(3 million ha of rubber, cinnamon, damar agroforests in Indonesia) and current initiatives to domesticate indigenous tree
species producing fruits, nuts, medicines and other household
products [Global Chapter 3]. Many kinds of traditional and
local AKST support wildlife and biodiversity and contribute
to carbon and methane sequestration [Global Chapters 2, 3].
In numerous cases traditional and local AKST in collaboration with formal AKST and support services is empowering communities, maintaining traditional cultures and diets
while improving local food sovereignty, incomes, nutrition
and food security [Global Chapter 3]. Partly because the
innumerable but diverse innovations resulting from local
and traditional AKST are hard to present as statistical data
they typically are overlooked, undervalued and excluded
from the modeling that often guides AKST decision making
[ESAP SDM; Global Chapters 2, 3].
Local and traditional agricultures work with genetic
material that is evolving under random mutation, natural
and farmer selection and community management [Global
Chapter 2]. Even in unpromising soil and topographic conditions, as in the high Andes, local and traditional knowledge
nurtured and managed germplasm that today is recognized
as a center of origin of genetic diversity. Local and traditional strategies for in situ conservation can be highly effective in managing the viability and diversity of seed, roots,
tubers and animal species over generations. [Global Chapter
3] The diversity gives local options and capacity for adaptive response that are essential for meeting the challenges of
climate change [CWANA SDM; Global Chapters 2, 3].
Mobilizing these capacities in collaboration with formal

01-SR.indd 71

science can generate AKST of more than local significance
[Global Chapter 3]. Robust evidence indicates that it is the
form of collaboration that determines the effectiveness of
the resulting AKST in terms of development and sustainability goals [Global Chapters 2, 3, 4].
The nature of traditional and local knowledge
Traditional knowledge [Global Chapter 7]. The UN Convention on Biological Diversity refers to traditional knowledge, innovations and practices of indigenous and local
communities embodying traditional lifestyles relevant for
the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity
[Global Chapter 2]. More broadly, traditional knowledge
is constituted in the interaction of the material and nonmaterial worlds embedded in place-based cultures and identities [Figure SR TKI-1] [LAC SDM].
The local Pacha (mother earth) is a micro-cosmos, a
representation of the cosmos at large. It is animated, sacred,
consubstantial, immanent, diverse, variable, and harmonious. Within the local Pacha there is the Ayllu (Community in
Quechuan and Aymaran languages). The Ayllu is comprised
of three communities: people, nature, spirits. Throughout
the agricultural calendar interaction within the Ayllu takes
place through rituals and ceremonies. The place par excellence for the three communities to interact is the chacra (plot
size: 1 to 2 ha). Harmony is not given, it has to be regularly
procured through dialogue, reciprocity, redistribution and
rejoicing flowing among the three communities. Nurturance
and respect are fundamental principles in these exchanges.
Knowledge created and transferred from another place by
persons from outside the locality has to be instituted in the
chacra through and in harmony with the dialogue among
the members of the Ayllu and in conformity with the rituals
and ceremonies that support such dialogue.
Local knowledge is a functional description of capabilities and activities that exist among rural actors in all parts
of the world, including OECD countries [Global Chapter
2; LAC SDM]. Local stakeholders may engage in AKST
activities typically (1) to compel acknowledgment of their
knowledge and capacity for self-generated development by
organizations and actors located elsewhere or (2) to reap
benefits by fostering relations with non-local organizations
and actors who need contextual, place-based knowledge in
order to perform their own missions efficiently and profitably [Global Chapter 2]. Labels of geographical origin
exemplify the first; the second is instanced by formal breeders and commercial organizations in the Netherlands who

11/3/08 12:08:43 PM

72 | IAASTD Synthesis Report

cooperate with Dutch potato hobby specialists in
breeding and varietal selection; the farmers negotiate formal contracts which give them recognition
and due reward for their intellectual contribution in
all varieties brought to market [Global Chapter 2].

The Andean Cosmovision

The dynamics of traditional and local knowledge.
Traditional and local knowledge co-evolve with
changes in their material and non-material environment. Any internal and external forces and drivers
[including weather-related events] that threaten the
loss of the material basis of traditional and local
cultures and identities necessarily threaten traditional and local knowledge [CWANA SDM; ESAP
SDM; Global Chapter 3].
Encounters between traditional and local
knowledge actors and others
Encounters that support sustainability and development. There is a wealth of evidence of encounters between knowledge actors that have supported achievement of development and sustainability
goals [ESAP Chapter 2; Global Chapters 2, 3, 4;
LAC SDM; NAE Chapters 1, 4; NAE SDM].
•	 Participatory, collaborative methods and approaches have added value to the encounter
between traditional/local knowledge actors
and formal AKST actors. Farmer-researcher
groups in the Andes for instance brought together members of CIP (an international research institute) for the development and testing of measures and varieties to control late
blight in potatoes, not only increasing produc- Figure SR-TKI1. The Andean cosmovision.
Figure SR-TK-1. The Andean cosmovision.
tivity but also addressing issues for instance of
inter-generational equity and the sustainability
rice cultivation in Guinea Conakry where it is now reof soil management. Collaboration among knowledge
garded as a traditional knowledge [Global Chapter 2].
actors in the commercialization and domestication of
tree [and other] wild and semiwild species in participaEncounters that threaten sustainability and development.
tory plant breeding (PPB) and in value-added processLess favorable encounters have been associated mostly with
ing are creating new value chains selling into both niche
AKST that focuses on objectives that are not shared by loand mass markets [Global Chapters 2, 3, 4]. Other excal people. Typically these have arisen in the context of the
amples include efforts made in a number of countries
following circumstances:
to invite traditional/local knowledge actors into rural
•	 Colonial disruptions that continue in some parts of the
schools (e.g., Thailand) and universities (e.g., Peru,
world with lingering but strong influences. In some cases
Costa Rica) as teachers and field trainers; to incorpothey serve to erode common property management rerate local AKST in the curricula and experiments run
gimes, leading to uncontrolled open access to natural reby village-based adult education and vocational trainsources and resource degradation [Global Chapter 4] or
ing centers (e.g., India); and to expand opportunities
privatization of local people’s land [Global Chapter 7].
for experiment-based, farmer-centered learning [Global
•	 Profit-seeking forces acting at the expense of multiChapter 2]. Modern ICTs show large potential for exfunctionality. Mechanisms to increase the accountabiltending and augmenting these developments [Global
ity of powerful commercial actors to development and
Chapter 2].
sustainability goals have been weak. In recent decades
•	 Encounters between traditional knowledge actors also
public information campaigns, shareholder activism
can support sustainability and development [Global
and more effective documentation and communication
Chapter 3]. An example of fruitful encounters is given
of malpractices have begun to exert some pressure for
by the extension of rice cultivation in brackish water in
change. Modern information and communication techcoastal Guineas [Conakry and Bissau]. Migrants from
nologies have assisted these developments but the althe ethnic sussu met local ethnic balantes in Guinea Bisready poor and marginalized have less access to these
sau around 1920 and, later on, local sussu (and also remeans [Global Chapter 2].
lated ethnic baga) hired migrant balantes to implement
Source: Gonzales 1999, Gonzales, Chambi and Machaca 1999

01-SR.indd 72

Design: UNEP/GRID-Arendal, Ketill Berger

11/3/08 12:08:45 PM

Themes: Traditional and Local Knowledge and Community-based Innovations | 73

•	

•	

•	

Technical developments that assume rather than test
the superiority of external knowledge and technologies
in actual conditions of use, conveyed by Transfer of
Technology models of research-extension-farmer linkages [ESAP Chapter 2; Global Chapter 3, 7, 8]. Formal
research agencies and universities have lagged behind in
developing criteria and processes for research prioritization and evaluation that go beyond conventional performance indicators to include a broader range of criteria for equity, environmental and social sustainability
developed by traditional people and local actors [LAC
SDM]. Decision making processes in and the governance of formal institutes of science and research generally have excluded representatives or delegates of traditional peoples, poor local communities or women [LAC
SDM] who only in exceptional circumstances have had
a voice on governing boards, impact assessment panels,
advisory councils and in technology foresight exercises.
Their inclusion has required deliberate and sustained
processes of methodological innovation, institutional
change and capacity development [Global Chapter 2].
Misappropriation. In some cases external actors have
used without direct compensation the biological materials developed under local and traditional communities’ management yet have largely ignored the knowledge and understanding that accompanied the in situ
development of germplasm. The important public role
of gene banks to return to local communities traditional germplasm that may have been lost at local levels
has become more constrained under the evolution of
Intellectual Property Rights regimes. Material transfer
agreements in practice or law also may provide powerful public and commercial actors privileged access to
this germplasm [Global Chapter 2].
Suppression of local knowledge, wisdom and identity. In
worst but far from rare cases educational curricula have
been used deliberately to suppress traditional and local
knowledge and identities. Inappropriate content or facilities in school-based education in some instances has worsened existing bias against attendance by traditional peoples or by girls and women [CWANA SDM; LAC SDM].

Asymmetries of power in institutional arrangements for
AKST. The explanatory value of inequitable power relations
has been demonstrated in the assessment of the positive and
negative outcomes of encounters between knowledge actors
in relation to development and sustainability goals. Formal
AKST centers [CWANA SDM; ESAP SDM; LAC SDM],
have privileged conventional systems of production; agroecological and traditional systems of production have been
marginal in the R&D effort made [CWANA SDM; Global
Chapter 3]. Knowledge actors based in formal research organizations have neglected development of accountability
for the costs of some technologies—such as highly toxic herbicides and pesticides when applied in actual conditions of
use [CWANA SDM; ESAP SDM] that have been borne disproportionately at local levels and often by the most marginalized peoples [Global Chapter 2; NAE].
A globalizing world. A globalizing world has offered opportunities that are welcomed and actively sought by tradition-

01-SR.indd 73

al and local people but also brought new risks, especially for
the vulnerable and ill-prepared. Mutual misunderstanding
across languages and other divides can undermine opportunities for collaboration especially when engagement is not
mediated by inter-personal interactions but by impersonal
bureaucracies, companies or commercial operations.
Persistent concerns for which as yet no lasting remedies have been found include the increasing competition for
groundwater and river systems between local and non-local
users [CWANA SDM—Farm structures and production systems], as well as the alienation of land and restriction of access
to the habitats that have sustained and nurtured traditional
and local communities’ knowledge generation [ESAP SDM;
Global Chapter 3]. While years of protest from indigenous
peoples, community organizations and activist groups by the
1990s helped ensure that the principles of benefit sharing in
the exploitation of local and traditional resources were written
into international conventions such as the UN Convention on
Biological Diversity, these lacked enforcement mechanisms.
There has been a progressive restriction of communities’ and
farmers “rights to produce, exchange and sell seed”. The
freedom of states to recognize these rights is limited under
UPOV 1991 and further limitations are proposed by some
powerful commercial and government actors. The slow pace
of adjustment of national varietal approval mechanisms for
materials generated by farmers’ organizations and through
PPB has raised new challenges [Global Chapters 2, 3, 4].
Challenges
Institutionalization and affirmation of traditional and local
knowledge [Global Chapter 7, 8]. Concerned actors in a
number of countries have developed strategies at local to
national levels to institutionalize and affirm traditional and
local knowledge for the combined goals of sustainable agricultural modernization, NRM, social justice and the improvement of well-being and livelihoods [Global Chapter 3;
LAC SDM, Chapter 5]. Robust examples include the gram
panchayat [village councils] in India [ESAP SDM] and local
water user associations [Global Chapter 3]. Currently some
countries (e.g., Mali, Thailand) also are establishing policy
frameworks that are congruent with the overall objectives of
market-oriented sustainable development yet recognize the
importance of traditional and local AKST capacities. The
wider application or scaling up of such experiences faces
strong and persistent challenges [Global Chapter 2].
Education. The more widespread application of collaborative
approaches in AKST practices would require [a] complementary investments in the education of AKST technicians and
professionals in order to strengthen their understanding of
and capacity to work with local and indigenous individuals
and communities; [b] support to curriculum developments
that value and provide opportunity for field-based experience and apprenticeships under communities’ educational
guidance; [c] farmers’ access to formal training to enable
them to connect to innovations in agroecology [CWANA
SDM; ESAP Chapter 4; Global Chapter 2; LAC SDM].
The valuation of traditional and local AKST [Global Chapter 7; NAE SDM, Chapter 1]. Certification and similar

11/3/08 12:08:45 PM

74 | IAASTD Synthesis Report

means of linking consumers and producers to traditional
and local identities have been developed to give value in the
marketplace to traditional and local knowledge and foods
[ESAP SDM; Global Chapters 3, 4]. Some of the certified
foods available today also include the “quality of life” values important to traditional producers or local communities [Global Chapter 3]. An increasing number of commercial actors in agrifood and agrochemical industries also are
demonstrating their commitment to sustainable production
and retailing through accreditation, auditing and traceability [Global Chapter 2, 3; LAC SDM].
Issues of laws, regulations and rights. It is recognized—yet
not accepted at all policy levels—that innovations to secure
rights for farmers, traditional people and citizens over germplasm, food, natural resources or territories are needed if
combined sustainability and development goals are to be
met [ESAP Chapter 3; Global Chapters 3, 7]. A number of
countries (e.g., Mali), indigenous peoples (e.g., the Awajun,
Peru) and local governments [e.g., various municipalities in
the Philippines] have adopted the principles of food sovereignty as well as normative policy frameworks and regulations that differentiate their own needs and circumstances
from the dominant global arrangements [Global Chapter 2;
LAC SDM].
Options for action
Four key areas for action were identified:
(1) Affirm local and traditional knowledge [NAE SDM,
Chapter 4] by investment in the scientific, local and traditional conservation, developing and using local and traditional plants, animals and other useful biological materials,
using advanced techniques as well as sophisticated application of participatory and collaborative approaches [Global
Chapter 8]. Specific investments include development of
greater professional and organizational capacity at all levels
for research and development with and for local and traditional people and their organizations [ESAP SDM; LAC
SDM; NAE SDM] and support for multistakeholder AKST
forums at all levels for building a shared understanding and
collective vision among divergent interests [Global Chapter
7; LAC SDM; NAE SDM]. Options for affirmation include
documentation and “archiving” of local and traditional
people’s knowledge products, knowledge generating processes and technologies—for instance in formal knowledge
banks as well as in community-held catalogues of practices,
designs and ancestral plant and animal genetic resources;
and targeted support for in situ and ex situ conservation of
crop, fish, forest and animal genetic resources [LAC SDM].
(2) In education, give higher priority for agroecological and
integrated approaches in primary through tertiary education and research [Global Chapter 3, NAE SDM, Chapter
4]. Invest in a broader range of social sciences to understand and help design solutions to power asymmetries in
AKST; arrange for effective encounters between knowledge
actors and knowledge organizations [Global Chapter 2];

01-SR.indd 74

widen development of the role of local and traditional trainers in educational curricula and deepen and strengthen the
educational options. Invest in occupational education and
farmer-centered learning opportunities that are accessible
and relevant for traditional and indigenous peoples and actively extend connectivity and ICTs to traditional and local
knowledge actors [Global Chapter 3, NAE SDM, Chapter
4] and expand the coverage of the above.
(3) Continue institutional innovation in systems such as
Fair Trade, geographic identification and in value chains
that shorten connections between producers and consumers
[ESAP Chapter 3; Global Chapter 3; NAE SDM]. Support
the valuation of local and traditional knowledge. Develop
culturally appropriate modes of assessing traditional and local AKST contributions to achievement of development and
sustainability goals [Global Chapter 6]. Widen support of
efforts to create local opportunity for domestication of wild
and semiwild species [Global Chapter 3]. Support to conservation and evolution of local and traditional medicinal
plants, knowledge of healing and health care systems [ESAP
Chapter 3] as well as certification, regulation and marketing
schemes that take account of traditional and local people’s
criteria and standards are options that make visible in the
market places, societies and at policy levels the value of local and traditional knowledge.
(4) Institutions, laws and regulations offer substantial options.
•	
•	

•	
•	
•	
•	

•	

•	
•	

Decentralization and devolution of services; local government support to community-driven development
[Global Chapter 7];
Investment in research to underpin the design of methods and processes for integration of AKST decisionmaking at different scales [Global Chapter 8; NAE
SDM, Chapters 3, 4];
Follow-through on the Joint Indigenous People’s Statements, 1999, 2007;
Regional networking among community groups and
traditional peoples’ movements around pesticide and
herbicide management [Global Chapter 2];
Building co-responsibility for AKST outcomes and
stronger, more effective mechanisms for enforcing these;
Developing “best practice” procedures and processes
for including traditional and local people in AKST research prioritization, technology assessments and evaluation [Global Chapter 3];
Evolution of Intellectual Property concepts, rules, and
mechanisms congruent with development objectives
and the rights of local and traditional peoples. [ESAP
SDM; Global Chapter 3, 7; NAE SDM];
Institutional innovations at policy level in support of
implementation of the CBD, UNECCO-Link;
Access and Benefit-sharing Agreements [Global Chapter 3] and other systems for protecting Farmers’ Rights
[Global Chapter 7] and stronger coordination among
such initiatives.

11/3/08 12:08:45 PM

Women in Agriculture

Writing Team: Alia Gana (Tunisia), Thora Martina Herrmann
(Germany), Sophia Huyer (Canada)

Gender, that is the socially constructed relations between
men and women, is an organizing element of existing farming systems worldwide and a determining factor of ongoing
processes of agricultural restructuring. Current trends in agricultural market liberalization and in the reorganization of
farm work, as well as the rise of environmental and sustainability concerns are redefining the links between gender and
development, as women not only continue to play a crucial
role in farm household production systems, but also represent an increasing share of agricultural wage labor.
Since the first world conference on women (1975), the
attention of decision makers has been attracted to the need
for policies that better address gender issues as an integrative
part of the development process. Although progress has been
made in women’s access to education and employment, we
must recognize that the largest proportion of rural women
worldwide continues to face deteriorating health and work
conditions, limited access to education and control over
natural resources, including formal title to land, technology
and credit, insecure employment and low income. This is
due to a variety of factors, including the growing demand
for flexible and cheap farm labor, the growing pressure on
and conflicts over natural resources and the reallocation of
economic resources in favor of large agroenterprises. Other
factors include increasing exposure to risks related to natural disasters and environmental changes, worsening access
to water, increasing occupational and health risks. Ongoing
trends call for urgent actions in favor of gender and social
equity in AKST policies and practices.
Women’s Changing Forms of Involvement in
Farm Activities and in the Management of Natural
Resources
Women in agricultural production and postharvest activities range from 20 to 70%, and their involvement in farm
activities, which is increasing in many developing countries,
take on different and changing forms and statuses. Women’s
roles in agriculture varies in fact considerably according to
farm system, legal systems, cultural norms and off-farm
opportunities and are undergoing major transformations
linked with local and global socioeconomic changes.
During a long period, women in industrialized countries either engaged in agricultural activities as farmers’
spouses, or took off-farm employment. More recently the
involvement of some women in farm activities has taken

on a professional status as farm co-managers entitling them
to pensions and other benefits of professional employment.
Farm systems diversification and tertiarization have also favored the development of new economic activities taken up
by women as autonomous entrepreneurs (direct sale, green
tourism, etc.). In Central and Eastern European countries
socialist policies historically aimed at suppressing gender
differences in farm activities, a process that has been called
into question by economic liberalization. Privatization of
state and cooperatives farms resulted in fact in loss of employment for a large number of women. With EU integration however, countries (e.g., Poland) have benefited from
EU support and training programs that also promoted new
activities for rural women, such as on-farm processing, direct sale of farm products and agrotourism.
In certain industrialized countries (e.g., Spain, France)
and in many developing regions, the consolidation of large
export-oriented farm enterprises contributes to an increased
number of female workers, including migrant workers in
farm activities (e.g., horticulture, floriculture). This process of feminization of agricultural wage work is associated
in some regions with the consolidation of large scale and
export-oriented farm enterprises and the increasing demand
of cheap labor. In developing countries it indicates the impoverishment of small farm households resulting in male
out-migration to urban centers for work, and is also linked
with rural women limited access to education and non-agricultural employment [CWANA Chapters 2; ESAP Chapter
1; Global Chapter 3].
In some countries (e.g., Tunisia, Morocco), progress in
education has allowed more women to obtain university degrees or diplomas in agricultural sciences and to become
farm entrepreneurs and managers. Still the proportion of female farm entrepreneurs remains very low in most developing countries (6% in Tunisia) and women’s work is carried
out on the basis of their status as family members, with little
separation between domestic and productive activities.
Besides housekeeping and child rearing, women and
girls are usually responsible for fetching water and fuel
wood. Women and girls tend to perform tasks such as planting, transplanting, hand weeding, harvesting, picking fruit
and vegetables, small livestock rearing, and postharvest operations such as threshing, seed selection, and storage, while
mechanized work (preparing the land, irrigation, mechanical harvesting, and marketing) is generally a male task. This
may increase women’s and girls’ manual and time burden,
tends to keep girls out of school, and holds their productivity below their potential.
75

01-SR.indd 75

11/3/08 12:08:46 PM

76 | IAASTD Synthesis Report

Figure SR-WA1. Counting women’s labor.

As a result of male out-migration and the development
of labor intensive farming systems, the gender division in
farm activities has undergone important transformation
and has tended to become more flexible. In some countries
(e.g., in SSA) women are now in charge of tasks formerly
performed only by men such as soil preparation, spraying
and marketing. This requires women’s access to additional
skills and presents new risks (e.g., health risks related to the
unregulated use of chemicals, especially pesticides) to girls
and women.
Rural-to-urban migration and out-migration of men
and young adults (including in some cases young women),
especially in CWANA, ESAP, LAC and SSA regions, has increased the number of female headed households and has
shifted the mean ages of rural populations upwards, resulting in considerable shrinkages in the rural labor force. In
some cases, this has negatively affected agricultural production, food security, and service provision [Global Chapter 3].
As to decision-making, women in some cases have become
empowered because of male out-migration: they manage
budgets and their mobility is increased as they sometimes
go to the market to sell their products, even if they still rely
on male relatives for major decisions such as the sale of an
animal (cow, veal, etc.) [CWANA Chapter 2; Global Chapter 6]. In Asia, SSA and LAC both internal and international
migration by rural women seeking economic opportunities
to escape poverty is on increase [ESAP Chapter 1].
Constraints, Challenges and Opportunities
The access of women to adequate land and land ownership
continues to be limited due to legislation (e.g., Zimbabwe,
Yemen) and sociocultural factors, e.g., Burundi where legislation has affirmed women’s right to land but customary
practices restrict women’s ability to buy or inherit agricul-

01-SR.indd 76

tural land and resources [CWANA Chapter 1; SSA Chapter 2]. Agrarian reform programs tend to give title to men,
especially in CWANA and LAC [CWANA Chapter 2; LAC
Chapter 5]. In the majority of patrilineal societies, women’s
right to land expires automatically in the case of divorce
or death of the husband [SSA Chapter 2]. In North Africa,
inheritance law entitles women to half the amount endowed
to men, and very often women forgo their right to land in
favor of their brothers. Lack of control over and impaired
entitlement to land often implies restricted access to loans
and social security, limits autonomy and decision making
power, and eventually curtails ability to achieve food security. A few countries have started recognizing the independent
land rights of women (e.g., South Africa, Kenya) [Global
Chapter 5; SSA Chapter 2]. The issue is the more urgent
because market development rewards those who own the
factors of production. Increased “opening toward the market” will not benefit men and women equally unless these
institutional, legal and normative issues are appropriately
and effectively addressed.
Poor rural infrastructure such as the lack of clean water
supply, electricity or fuel increases women’s work load and
limits their availability for professional training, childcare
and income generation. The lack of access to storage facilities and roads contributes to high food costs and low selling
prices. The trends towards economic and trade liberalization and privatization have led to the dismantling of many
marketing services that were previously available to farmers. Women farmers have been severely hit by this loss. The
decline in investment in rural infrastructure, such as roads
that link rural areas to markets and limited access to ICTs,
affects women’s access to markets. Lack of access to membership in marketing organizations limits women’s ability to
sell their produce.
Women and girls involved in farm activities mostly in

11/3/08 12:08:50 PM

Themes: Women in Agriculture | 77

Figure SR-WA2. Women quantify lack of control over work resources.

developing countries usually have less access than men to
education, information and to learn how to use new technologies. Hence, this affects their ability to make informed
choices around crop selection, food production and marketing. Notwithstanding a rise in the number of women
pursuing careers in biosciences worldwide, female researchers still tend to be underrepresented in agricultural sciences
and in senior scientific positions in general. Only 15% of
the world’s agricultural public sector extension agents are
women [Global Chapter 3]. Women’s access to extension
is limited by lack of access to membership in rural organizations which often channel or provide training opportunities, and by gender blind agricultural policies that give
inadequate attention to women farmer’s needs in terms of
crops and technology. Lack of opportunity in the curricula
and training of extensionists to analyze gender roles and
differential needs continues to exclude women from training
and the benefits of extension services.
Although in most countries women have lower rates
of access to ICTs, there are increasing examples of the use
of ICTs by women to generate income (e.g., selling phone
time in Bangladesh), obtain information, communicate
with governments, and make their voices heard. In India,
local women use video and radio equipment to record and
produce the messages they want others in their community
to hear (e.g., Deccan Development Society). The Farmwise

01-SR.indd 77

Figure SR-WA3. The percentage of agricultural work carried out
by women compared to the percentage of female extension staff in
selected African countries.

project in Malawi uses a computer database system with
web interface and email to help women farmers determine
what they can expect to harvest from their land, which crops
they can grow given the soil type and fertility, and what inputs they should use [Global Chapter 6].
Access to information influences the ability of farmers to
have influence in their communities and their ability to participate in AKST decision-making. Women’s representation
in AKST decision-making at all levels remains limited (e.g.,
women in Benin held 2.5% of high-level decision making
positions in the government [Global Chapters 1, 2]. Women
farmers’ access to membership and leadership positions in
rural organizations (e.g., cooperatives, agricultural producers’ organizations, farmers’ associations) is often restricted,
by law or custom, which restricts their access to productive
resources, credit, information and training and their ability
to make their views known to policy makers and planners.
The rise of women’s Self-Help Groups (SHGs) or women’s
microfinance groups (e.g., in India) to some extent has made
women’s income a permanent component of household in-

11/3/08 12:09:02 PM

78 | IAASTD Synthesis Report

come, thus reducing women’s dependency on the male provider [ESAP Chapter 5].
Although the supply of gender disaggregated data and
studies of women’s roles in agricultural production and food
security is increasing, there is still a lack of sufficient data and
in depth research on women’s practices and specific needs.
Indirect impacts of AKST in relation to ownership of assets,
employment on and off farm, vulnerability, gender roles,
labor requirements, food prices, nutrition and capacity for
collective action have been less thoroughly researched than
the financial and economic impacts, although, recent impact
assessments of participatory methods have more comprehensively addressed these issues [Global Chapter 3].
Also agricultural research policies have tended to primarily focus on the intensive farming sector and export-oriented
crops, and have given insufficient attention to food crops for
domestic consumption, which are essential for household
food security and environmental protection [Global Chapter 2]. Small-scale farmers, particularly women, play a key
role in promoting sustainable methods of farming based on
traditional knowledge and practices. Women often possess
knowledge of the value and use of local plant and animal
resources for nutrition, health and income in their roles as
family caretakers, plant gatherers, home gardeners, herbalists, seed custodians and informal plant breeders [Global
Chapter 2]. Moreover, women often experiment with and
adapt indigenous species and thus become experts in plant
genetic resources [SSA Chapter 2].
Climate change. Effects of flooding, drought, variations in
crop seasons and temperature-related yield loss could mean
extra hardship for the farming and food provisioning activities, which are often carried out by women. Their capacity
to sustain their families’ livelihoods is in fact often reduced
as a result of the loss of seeds, livestock, tools and productive gardens [ESAP Chapter 4]. The increase of extreme
weather conditions (e.g., floods and cyclones), notably in
ESAP regions, will put an increasing expectation on women
for coping with the effects of disaster and destruction.
Women are underrepresented in decision making about
climate change, green house gas emissions and adaptation/
mitigation in both the public and private sector. Lower levels
of access to training, education and technologies will affect
the ability of women to cope with climate change induced
stresses.
Women of reproductive age as well as children are most
affected by the increase of infectious diseases (e.g., malaria).
The worsening health situation is exacerbated by a high rate
of malnutrition in children especially in regions, like SSA,
with repeated droughts, wars and conflicts. Intra-household
food distribution often favors males, which can give rise to
micronutrient deficiencies in women and children which impair cognitive development of young children, retard physical growth, increase child mortality and maternal death
during childbirth [Global Chapter 3]. Nutritional deficiency
among women and children in South Asia also has reached
crisis proportions [ESAP Chapter 1]. The impact of HIV/
AIDS in an increasing number of countries has given rise
to rapidly increasing numbers of female-headed households,
child-headed households, and dependence on the elderly
who face increasing workloads as they assume responsibil-

01-SR.indd 78

ity for growing numbers of AIDS orphans [SSA Chapter 3].
In SSA women make up two-thirds of those infected with
HIV/AIDS. This adds additional burdens for women as producers of food and as family caretakers. Labor loss due to
illness, need to care for family members and paid employment required to cover medical costs may cause families to
decrease their farming activities The stress of HIV/AIDS on
the social capital within communities also erodes the transmission of knowledge between households and communities, thereby reducing the range of livelihood options for the
next generation [Global Chapters 6, 7].
Options for Action to Enhance Women’s Involvement
in AKST
In view of the continuing constraints faced by rural women
and the current forms of agricultural restructuring likely to
worsen farm women’s work and health conditions, urgent
action is needed to implement gender and social equity in
AKST policies and practices.
Options for action include:
•	 Strengthening the capacity of public institutions and
NGOs to improve the knowledge of women’s involvement in farm activities and their relationship to AKST;
•	 Giving priority to women’s access to education, information, science and technology and extension services;
•	 Improving women’s access, ownership and control of
economic and natural resources through legal measures,
appropriate credit schemes, support to the development
of women’s income generating activities and the reinforcement of women’s organizations and networks;

Counting female-headed households
A sample of national agricultural censuses conducted worldwide
between 1989 and 1999 found that barely half included
information on female-headed households.
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
Africa

Asia
Pacific

Censuses includes
data on femaleheaded households
SOURCE: FAO

South
America

Total

Censuses with no
data on femaleheaded households
IAASTD. Design: UNEP/GRID-Arendal, Ketill Berger

Figure
SR-WA4.Counting
Counting
female-headed
households.
Figure SR-WA4.
female-headed
households.

11/3/08 12:09:03 PM

Themes: Women in Agriculture | 79

•	

•	
•	

•	
•	
•	

Strengthening women’s ability to benefit from marketbased opportunities by market institutions and policies
giving explicit priority to women farmers groups in
value chains;
Supporting public services and investment in rural areas
in order to improve women’s living and working conditions;
Prioritizing technological development policies targeting rural and farm women’s needs and recognizing
women’s specific knowledge, skills and experience in
the production of food and the conservation of biodiversity;
Assessing the effects of farming practices and technology, including pesticides on women’s health, and measures to reduce use and exposure;
Ensuring gender balance in AKST decision-making at
all levels; and
Providing mechanisms to hold AKST organizations accountable for progress in the above areas.

	
Policies can reinforce the achievement of development
and sustainability goals by recognizing and taking into account the role played by family farming and rural women in
terms of production, employment and household food sufficiency. Consolidation of the small-scale farming sector, where
women are particularly active, requires AKST oriented towards the improvement of local food crops to better satisfy
domestic markets, the development of drought-resistant
breeds to provide a more reliable harvest to those living on
marginal lands, and greater focus on on-farm enterprises
such as seasonal fish ponds that increase women’s economic
contribution to household survival.
Strengthening women’s control over resources is central
to achievement of development and sustainability goals as
well as changes in discriminatory laws that exclude women
from land ownership, from access to clean water, getting
loans or opening bank accounts. The principle of equal pay
for women working in agriculture, innovative low-cost and
sustainable technological options and services in water supply are among the measures that can enable more equitable
benefit-sharing from AKST investments and wider access to
services that benefit both women and men. Governments
can facilitate access to grants or credit on concessionary
terms to women and women’s groups.
There is an urgent need for priority setting in research to
ensure that women benefit from modern agricultural technologies (e.g., labor-saving technologies and reduced health
risk techniques) rather than being overlooked in the implementation of technologies as has often occurred in the past
[Global Chapter 3]. For social and economic sustainability,
it is important that technologies are appropriate to different
resource levels, including those of women and do not encourage others to dispossess women of land or control their
labor and income. Development of techniques that reduce
work load and health risks, and meet the social and physical
requirements of women can contribute to limiting the negative effects of the gender division of labor in many regions.
Modern agricultural technology should not undermine
women’s autonomy and economic position. Targeted measures will be needed to ensure this does not happen. AKST
systems that are gender sensitive would expand the range of

01-SR.indd 79

crop, horticultural, medicinal and animal species and varieties available for food provisioning and market sale. They
would take into account all phases of agronomic management
and post-harvest activities. Policy makers and researchers
would need to consider the complex social, health and environmental implications of adopting engineered crops and
weigh these against lost opportunities to direct institutional
attention towards proven low external input agroecological
approaches and strengthening farmer-centered seed-saving
networks. By integrating local and gender-differentiated understanding of seeds and the cultural values connected to
food preservation, preparation and storage, AKST can enhance the success of technological adoption and eventually
be more effective in enhancing rural livelihoods.
Intellectual Property Rights that recognize women’s
technological knowledge and biological materials are needed
if development and sustainability goals are to be met. Women’s intellectual property rights relating to the knowledge of
indigenous plant varieties and cultivation are in need of protection. Support of the documentation and dissemination
of women’s knowledge is an important aspect of a gendersensitive approach to IPR [Global Chapter 2] and is required
to retain the knowledge of both women and men.
As disaster-related and complex emergencies will become more frequent and larger in scale, preferential research
aiming at a better understanding of how gender issues affect communities’ vulnerability and their ability to respond
is indispensable. Gender differences in vulnerability and in
adaptive opportunities should be better researched and acknowledged in the technology development to mitigate carbon emissions ensuring success of adaptation policies.
Communities and civil society could be further supported to voice their concern for gender-sensitive agricultural services. They could assist in collecting information
on men and women’s roles, access, needs of AKST in different societies (including nomadic communities) and in
sharing this on broader platforms, in order to have gender
issues taken seriously in the design of development plans
and agricultural services. Agricultural programs designed to
increase women’s income and household nutrition would
need to take much greater account of the cultural context of
women’s work as well as patterns of intra-household food
distribution and natural resource access if development and
sustainability goals are to be met [Global Chapter 3].
Giving preference and support women’s access to education and information is critical to meeting development and
sustainability goals. Targeting female students for advanced
education in agriculture and other sciences is a vital part of
this preference as well as curriculum reform that expands
the scope of knowledge relevant to meeting development
and sustainability goals. This priority should be placed in
the larger social, environmental or “life” context: the Earth
University in Costa Rica combines hands-on fieldwork experience with theoretical work on not only the agricultural
sciences, but also business administration, entrepreneurship, ecology, resource management, forestry, anthropology
and sociology.
Training women farmers as trainers for other women
provides an opportunity to share their experience and
knowledge. Training and micro-credit programs should be
interlinked to effectively transfer agricultural technology to

11/3/08 12:09:03 PM

80 | IAASTD Synthesis Report

women farmers. Marketing, food processing and post-harvest
sciences are well suited as areas of specialization for women
who desire a career in extension work. Strategies can include
making extension work attractive to women and promoting
the education and hiring of women as extension agents. Relevant expertise includes improved postharvest handling practices in the local marketplaces where women gather to sell
their goods or to shop for food [Global Chapter 6].
Gender-sensitive communication strategies for natural
resource management (e.g., mountain landscapes, treesoutside-forest, forest management) can ensure that women
and girls can participate effectively and equitably in emerging knowledge networks. The availability of women-oriented content and selection of appropriate intermediaries
and partnerships can enhance womens’ and girls’ access to
and benefits from modern ICTs [Global Chapter 5]. Other
benefits of ICT include linking up training and micro-credit
programs to transfer agricultural technology between
women farmers. Linking women farmers with markets
and using effective, appropriate and cost-efficient ICTs can
promote skills development among women. The use of the
mobile phone is an example of an information technology
that is increasing exponentially among women in many developing regions. Mobile phones are also a portable market
research tool, allowing producers to find and compare current market prices for their products and ensuring greater
profits for their products [Global Chapters 2, 6].
Furthering gender analysis in the alternative trade sector,
particularly by Fair Trade organizations and NGOs, would

01-SR.indd 80

generate a richer understanding of the costs and benefits in
participating in alternative trade systems for both women
and men. Gender impact analyses in turn can inform producer organizations and alternative trade organizations on
how to improve their impact and on whom to focus further
capacity development efforts. Such findings might point for
instance to the need for female extension agents, or gender
specific technology, marketing strategies or knowledge for
male or female farmers.
Strengthening women’s ability to benefit from marketbased opportunities by market institutions and policies
giving explicit priority to women farmers groups in value
chains is essential and would allow women to benefit more
from the added value of agricultural production. The development of agricultural enterprises owned and controlled
by women, promoting women’s organizations and cooperatives, community-supported agriculture and farmers markets have proven potential to enhance women’s income
opportunities and business capacities.
Strengthening women’s participation in formal AKST
decision-making at all levels, including international agricultural research centers and national agricultural research
systems, is of crucial importance. Specific mechanisms
should also be developed to hold AKST organizations accountable for progress in the above areas. Adoption of techniques such as gender budgeting by departments/programs
of agriculture would assist in the allocation of public and
private investments needed to implement (and assess) gender and social equity in AKST policies.

11/3/08 12:09:03 PM

Annex A

Reservations on Synthesis Report

Australia: Australia recognizes the IAASTD initiative and
reports as a timely and important multistakeholder and multidisciplinary exercise designed to assess and enhance the
role of AKST in meeting the global development challenges.
The wide range of observations and views presented however, are such that Australia cannot agree with all assertions
and options in the report. The report is therefore noted as a
useful contribution, which will be used for considering the
future priorities and scope of AKST in securing economic
growth and the alleviation of hunger and poverty.
Canada: In recognizing the important and significant work
undertaken by IAASTD authors, Secretariat and stakeholders on the background Reports, the Canadian Government
notes these documents as a valuable and important contribution to policy debate which needs to continue in national
and international processes. While acknowledging the valuable contribution these Reports provide to our understanding on agricultural knowledge, science and technology for
development, there remain numerous areas of concern in
terms of balanced presentation, policy suggestions and other
assertions and ambiguities. Nonetheless, the Canadian Gov-

ernment advocates these reports be drawn to the attention
of governments for consideration in addressing the importance of AKST and its large potential to contribute to economic growth and the reduction of hunger and poverty.
United States of America: The United States joins consensus with other governments in the critical importance of
AKST to meet the goals of the IAASTD. We commend the
tireless efforts of the authors, editors, Co-Chairs and the
Secretariat. We welcome the IAASTD for bringing together
the widest array of stakeholders for the first time in an initiative of this magnitude. We respect the wide diversity of
views and healthy debate that took place.
As we have specific and substantive concerns in each of
the reports, the United States is unable to provide unqualified endorsement of the reports, and we have noted them.
The United States believes the Assessment has potential
for stimulating further deliberation and research. Further,
we acknowledge the reports are a useful contribution for
consideration by governments of the role of AKST in raising sustainable economic growth and alleviating hunger and
poverty.

81

01-SR.indd 81

11/3/08 12:09:03 PM

Annex B

Authors and Review Editors of Global and Sub-Global Reports

Argentina
Walter Ismael Abedini • Universidad Nacional de La Plata
Hugo Cetrángolo • Universidad de Buenos Aires
Cecilia Gelabert • Universidad de Buenos Aires
Héctor D. Ginzo • Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Comercio
Internacional y Culto
Maria Cristina Plencovich • Universidad de Buenos Aires
Marcelo Regunaga • Universidad de Buenos Aires
Sandra Elizabeth Sharry • Universidad Nacional de La Plata
Javier Souza Casadinho • CETAAR-RAPAL
Miguel Taboada • Universidad de Buenos Aires
Ernesto Viglizzo • INTA Centro Regional La Pampa

Armenia
Ashot Hovhannisian • Ministry of Agriculture

Australia
Helal Ahammad • Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and
Forestry
David J. Connor • University of Melbourne
Tony Jansen • TerraCircle Inc.
Roger R.B. Leakey • James Cook University
Andrew Lowe • Adelaide State Herbarium and Biosurvey
Anna Matysek • Concept Economics
Andrew Mears • Majority World Technology
Girija Shrestha • Monash Asia Institute, Monash University

Austria
Maria Wurzinger • University of Natural Resources & Applied
Life Sciences

Bangladesh
Wais Kabir • Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council (BARC)
Karim Mahmudul • Bangladesh Shrimp and Fish Foundation

Barbados
Carl B. Greenidge • CFTC and Caribbean Regional Negotiating
Machinery

Benin
Peter Neuenschwander • International Institute of Tropical
Agriculture
Simplice Davo Vodouhe • Pesticide Action Network

Bolivia

Manuel de la Fuente • National Centre of Competence in
Research North-South
Edson Gandarillas • PROINPA Foundation

Botswana
Baone Cynthia Kwerepe • Botswana College of Agriculture

Brazil
Flavio Dias Ávila • Embrapa
Antônio Gomes de Castro • Embrapa
André Gonçalves • Centro Ecológico
Dalva María Da Mota • Embrapa
Odo Primavesi • Embrapa Pecuaria Sudeste (Southeast Embrapa
Cattle)
Sergio Salles Filho • State University of Campinas (Unicamp)
Susana Valle Lima • Embrapa

Canada
Jacqueline Alder • University of British Columbia
Guy Debailleul • Laval University
Harriet Friedman • University of Toronto
Tirso Gonzales • University of British Columbia, Okanagan
Thora Martina Herrmann • Université de Montréal
Sophia Huyer • UN Commission on Science and Technology for
Development.
JoAnn Jaffe • University of Regina
Shawn McGuire
Morven A. McLean • Agriculture and Biotechnology Strategies
Inc. (AGBIOS)
M. Monirul Qader Mirza • Environment Canada and University
of Toronto, Scarborough
Ricardo Ramirez  • University of Guelph
John M.R. Stone • Carleton University

Chile
Mario Ahumada • International Committee for Regional Planning
for Food Security

China
Jikun Huang • Chinese Academy of Sciences
Fu Quin • Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences (CAAS)
Ma Shiming • Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences (CAAS)
Li Xiande • Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences (CAAS)
Zhu Xiaoman • China National Institute for Educational
Research

Jorge Blajos • PROINPA Foundation
Ruth Pamela Cartagena • CIPCA Pando

82

01-SR.indd 82

11/3/08 12:09:04 PM

Authors and Review Editors of Global and Sub-Global Reports | 83

Colombia
Inge Armbrecht • University del Valle
Hernando Bernal • University of the Columbian Amazon
Juan Cárdenas • University of the Andes
Maria Veronica Gottret • CIAT
Elsa Nivia • RAPALMIRA
Edelmira Pérez • Pontificia University Javeriana of Bogotá

Costa Rica
Marian Perez Gutierrez • National Centre of Competence in
Research North-South
Mario Samper • Inter-American Institute for Cooperation on
Agriculture (IICA)

Côte d’Ivoire
Guéladio Cissé • National Centre of Competence in Research
North-South Centre Suisse de Recherche Scientifique

Cyprus
Georges Eliades • Agricultural Research Institute (ARI)
Costas Gregoriou • Agricultural Research Institute (ARI)
Christoph Metochis • Agricultural Research Institute (ARI)

Czech Republic
Miloslava Navrátilová • State Phytosanitary Administration

Democratic Republic of Congo
Dieudonne Athanase Musibono • University of Kinshasa

Denmark
Henrik Egelyng • Danish Institute for International Studies (DIIS)
Thomas Henrichs • University of Aarhus

Dominican Republic
Rufino Pérez-Brennan • ALIMENTEC S.A.

Egypt
Sonia Ali • Zagarid University
Mostafa A. Bedier • Agricultural Economic Research Institute
Salwa Mohamed Ali Dogheim • Agriculture Research Center
Azza Emara • Agricultural Research Institute, Agricultural
Research Center
Ahmed Abd Alwahed Rafea • American University of Cairo
Mohamed Abo El Wafa Gad • GTZ

Ethiopia
Assefa Admassie • Ethiopian Economic Policy Research Institute
P. Anandajayasekeram • International Livestock Research
Institute
Gezahegn Ayele • EDRI-IFPRI
Berhanu Debele • National Centre of Competence in Research
North-South
Joan Kagwanja • Economic Commission for Africa
Yalemtsehay Mekonnen • Addis Ababa University
Workneh Negatu Sentayehu • Addis Ababa University
Gete Zeleke • Global Mountain Program

Finland
Riina Antikainen • Finnish Environment Institute
Henrik Bruun • Helsinki University of Technology
Helena Kahiluoto • MTT Agrifood Research

01-SR.indd 83

Jyrki Niemi • MTT Agrifood Research
Riikka Rajalahti • Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Reimund Roetter • MTT Agrifood Research
Timo Sipiläinen • MTT Agrifood Research
Markku Yli-Halla • University of Helsinki

France
Jean Albergel • Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique
(INRA)
Loïc Antoine • IFREMER
Martine Antona • CIRAD
Gilles Aumont • Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique
(INRA)
Didier Bazile • CIRAD
Pascal Bergeret • Ministry of Agriculture
Yves Birot • Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique
(INRA)
Pierre-Marie Bosc • CIRAD
Nicolas Bricas • CIRAD
Jacques Brossier • Institut National de la Recherche.
Agronomique (INRA)
Perrine Burnod • CIRAD
Gérard Buttoud • Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique
(INRA)
Patrick Caron • CIRAD
Bernard Chevassus • French Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
Emilie Coudel • CIRAD
Béatrice Darcy-Vrillon • Institut National de la Recherche
Agronomique (INRA)
Jean-François Dhôte • Institut National de la Recherche
Agronomique (INRA)
Celine Dutilly-Diane • CIRAD
Fabrice Dreyfus • University Institute for Tropical Agrofood
Industries and Rural Development
Michel Dulcire • CIRAD
Patrick Dugué • CIRAD
Nicolas Faysse • CIRAD
Stefano Farolfi • CIRAD
Guy Faure • CIRAD
Alia Gana • National Center for Scientific Research CNRS/
LADYSS
Thierry Goli • CIRAD
Ghislain Gosse • Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique
(INRA)
Jean-Marc Guehl • Institut National de la Recherche
Agronomique (INRA)
Dominique Hervé • Institute for Development Research (IRD)
Henri Hocdé • CIRAD
Bernard Hubert • Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique
(INRA)
Jacques Imbernon • CIRAD
Hugues de Jouvenel • Futuribles
Trish Kammili • Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique
Véronique Lamblin • Futuribles
Marie de Lattre-Gasquet • CIRAD
Patrick Lavelle • Institute for Development Research (IRD)
Marianne Lefort • Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique
and AgroParisTech
Jacques Loyat • French Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
Jean-Pierre Müller • CIRAD
Sylvain Perret • CIRAD

11/3/08 12:09:04 PM

84 | Annex B

Michel Petit • Institut Agronomique Mediterraneen Montpellier
Jean-Luc Peyron • GIP ECOFOR
Anne-Lucie Raoult-Wack • Agropolis Fondation
Pierre Ricci • Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique
(INRA)
Alain Ruellan • Agrocampus Rennes
Yves Savidan • AGROPOLIS
Bernard Seguin • Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique
(INRA)
Nicole Sibelet • CIRAD
Andrée Sontot • Bureau de Ressources Genetiques
Ludovic Temple • CIRAD
Jean-Philippe Tonneau • CIRAD
Selma Tozanli • Mediterranean Agronomic Institute of Montpellier
Guy Trebuil • CIRAD
Tancrede Voituriez • CIRAD

The Gambia
Ndey Sireng Bakurin • National Environment Agency

Germany
Anita Idel • Independent
Dale Wen Jiajun • International Forum on Globalization
Tanja H. Schuler • Independent
Hermann Waibel • Leibniz University of Hannover

Ghana
Elizabeth Acheampong • University of Ghana
John-Eudes Andivi Bakang • Kwame Nkrumah University of
Science and Technology (KNUST)
Claudio Bragantini • Embrapa
Daniel N. Dalohoun • United Nations University MERIT/INRA
Felix Yao Mensa Fiadjoe • University of Ghana
Edwin A. Gyasi • University of Ghana
Gordana Kranjac-Berisavljevic • University for Development
Studies
Carol Mercey Markwei • University of Ghana Legon
Joseph (Joe) Taabazuing • Ghana Institute of Management and
Public Administration (GIMPA)

Indonesia
Suraya Afiff • KARSA (Circle for Agrarian and Village Reform)
Hira Jhamtani • Third World Network

Iran
Hamid Siadat • Independent

Ireland
Denis Lucey • University College Cork – National University of
Ireland

Italy
Gustavo Best • Independent
Maria Fonte • University of Naples
Michael Halewood • Bioversity International
Anne-Marie Izac • Alliance of the CGIAR Centres
Prabhu Pingali • FAO
Sergio Ulgiati • Parthenope University of Naples
Francesco Vanni • Pisa University
Keith Wiebe • FAO
Monika Zurek • FAO

Jamaica
Audia Barnett • Scientific Research Council

Japan
Osamu Ito • Japan International Research Center for Agricultural
Sciences (JIRCAS)
Osamu Koyama • Japan International Research Center for
Agricultural Sciences (JIRCAS)

Jordan
Saad M. Alayyash • Jordan University of Science and Technology
Ruba Al-Zubi • Ministry of Environment
Mahmud Duwayri • University of Jordan
Muna Yacoub Hindiyeh • Jordan University of Science and
Technology
Lubna Qaryouti • Ministry of Agriculture/Rangelands Directorate
Rania Suleiman Shatnawi • Ministry of Environment

India

Kenya

Satinder Bajaj • Eastern Institute for Integrated Learning in
Management University
Sachin Chaturvedi • Research and Information System for
Developing Countries (RIS)
Indu Grover • CCS Haryana Agricultural University
Govind Kelkar • UNIFEM
Purvi Mehta-Bhatt • Science Ashram
Poonam Munjal • CRISIL Ltd
Dev Nathan • Institute for Human Development
K.P. Palanisami • Tamil Nadu Agricultural University
Rajeswari Sarala Raina • Centre for Policy Research
Vanaja Ramprasad • Green Foundation
C.R. Ranganathan • Tamil Nadu Agricultural University
Sunil Ray • Institute of Development Studies
Sukhpal Singh • Indian Institute of Management (IIM)
Anushree Sinha • National Council for Applied Economic
Research (NCAER)
V. Santhakumar • Centre for Development Studies
Rasheed Sulaiman V. • Centre for Research on Innovation and
Science Policy (CRISP)

Tsedeke Abate • International Crops Research Institute for the
Semi-Arid Tropics
Susan Kaaria • Ford Foundation
Boniface Kiteme • Centre for Training and Integrated Research in
Arid and Semi-arid Lands Development
Washington O. Ochola • Egerton University
Wellington Otieno • Maseno University
Frank M. Place • World Agroforestry Centre
Wahida Patwa Shah • ICRAF – World Agroforestry Centre

01-SR.indd 84

Kyrgyz Republic
Ulan Kasymov • Central Asian Mountain Partnership Programme
Rafael Litvak • Research Institute of Irrigation

Latvia
Rashal Isaak • University of Latvia

Lebanon
Roy Antoine Abijaoude • Holy Spirit University

11/3/08 12:09:04 PM

Authors and Review Editors of Global and Sub-Global Reports | 85

Madascagar

Nicaragua

R. Xavier Rakotonjanahary • FOFIFA (National Center for
Applied Research for Rural Development)

Falguni Guharay • Information Service of Mesoamerica on
Sustainable Agriculture
Carlos J. Pérez • Earth Institute
Ana Cristina Rostrán • UNAN-León
Jorge Irán Vásquez • National Union of Farmers and Ranchers

Malaysia
Lim Li Ching • Third World Network
Khoo Gaik Hong • International Tropical Fruits Network

Nigeria
Mauritius
Ameenah Gurib-Fakim • University of Mauritius

Mexico
Rosa Luz González Aguirre • Autonomous Metropolitan
University, Azcapotzalco
Michelle Chauvet • Autonomous National University of México
(UNAM)
Amanda Gálvez • Autonomous National University of México
(UNAM)
Jesús Moncada • Independent
Celso Garrido Noguera • Autonomous National University of
México (UNAM)
Scott S. Robinson • Universidad Metropolitana - Iztapalapa
Roberto Saldaña • SAGARPA

Morocco
Saadia Lhaloui • Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique
Mohamed Moussaoui • Independent

Sanni Adunni • Ahmadu Bello University
Michael Chidozie Dike • Ahmadu Bello University
V.I.O. Ndirika • Ahmadu Bello University
Stella Williams • Obafemi Awolowo University

Oman
Younis Al Akhzami • Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
Abdallah Mohamed Omezzine • University of Nizwa, Oman

Pakistan
Iftikhar Ahmad • National Agricultural Research Centre
Mukhtar Ahmad Ali • Centre for Peace & Development
Initiatives
Syed Sajidin Hussain • Ministry of Environment
Yameen Memon • Government Employees Cooperative Housing
Society
Farzana Panhwar • SINDTH Rural Women’s Uplift Group
Syed Wajid Pirzada • Pakistan Agricultural Research Center
Abid Suleri • Sustainable Development Policy Institute (SDPI)
Ahsan Wagha • Damaan Development Organization/GEF/SGP

Mozambique
Manuel Amane • Instituto de Investigação Agrícola de
Moçambique (IIAM)
Patrick Matakala • World Agroforestry Centre

Nepal
Rajendra Shrestha • AFORDA

Palestine
Jamal Abo Omar • An-Najah National University
Jad E Isaac • Applied Research Institute – Jerusalem
Thameen Hijawi • Palestinian Agricultural Relief Committees
(PARC)
Numan Mizyed • An-Najah National University
Azzam Saleh • Al-Quds University

Netherlands
Nienke Beintema • International Food Policy Research Institute
Bas Eickhout • Netherlands Environmental Assessment Agency
(MNP)
Judith Francis • Technical Centre for Agricultural and Rural
Cooperation (CTA)
Janice Jiggins • Wageningen University
Toby Kiers • Vrije Universiteit
Kaspar Kok • Wageningen University
Niek Koning • Wageningen University
Niels Louwaars • Wageningen University
Willem A. Rienks • Wageningen University
Niels Röling • Wageningen University
Mark van Oorschot • Netherlands Environmental Assessment
Agency (MNP)
Detlef P. van Vuuren • Netherlands Environmental Assessment
Agency (MNP)
Henk Westhoek • Netherlands Environmental Assessment Agency
(MNP)

New Zealand
Jack A. Heinemann • University of Canterbury
Meriel Watts • Pesticide Action Network Aotearoa

01-SR.indd 85

Panama
Julio Santamaría • INIAP

Peru
Clara G. Cruzalegui • Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
Maria E. Fernandez • National Agrarian University
Luis A. Gomero • Action Network for Alternatives to
Agrochemicals
Carla Tamagno • Universidad San Martin de Porres

Philippines
Mahfuz Ahmed • Asian Development Bank
Arturo S. Arganosa • Philippine Council for Agriculture, Forestry
and Natural Resources Research and Development
Danilo C. Cardenas • Philippine Council for Agriculture, Forestry
and Natural Resources Research and Development
Richard B. Daite • Philippine Council for Agriculture, Forestry
and Natural Resources Research and Development
Elenita C. Dano • Participatory Enhancement and Development
of Genetic Resources in Asia (PEDIGREA)
Fezoil Luz C. Decena • Philippine Council for Agriculture,
Forestry and Natural Resources Research and Development
Dely Pascual Gapasin • Institute for International Development
Partnership Foundation

11/3/08 12:09:05 PM

86 | Annex B

Digna Manzanilla • Philippine Council for Agriculture, Forestry
and Natural Resources Research and Development
Charito P. Medina • MASIPAG (Farmer-Scientist Partnership for
Development, Inc.)
Thelma Paris • International Rice Research Institute
Agnes Rola • University of the Philippines Los Baños
Leo Sebastian • Philippine Rice Research Institute

Poland
Dariusz Jacek Szwed • Independent
Dorota Metera • IUCN – Poland

Russia
Sergey Alexanian • N.I. Vavilov Research Institute of Plant Industry

Rwanda
Agnes Abera Kalibata • Ministry of Agriculture

David Duthie • United Nations Environment Programme
Markus Giger • University of Bern
Ann D. Herbert • International Labour Organization
Angelika Hilbeck • Swiss Federal Institute of Technology
Udo Hoeggel • University of Bern
Hans Hurni • University of Bern
Andreas Klaey • University of Bern
Cordula Ott • University of Bern
Brigitte Portner • University of Bern
Stephan Rist • University of Bern
Urs Scheidegger • Swiss College of Agriculture
Juerg Schneider • State Secretariat for Economic Affairs
Christoph Studer • Swiss College of Agriculture
Hong Yang • Swiss Federal Institute for Aquatic Science and
Technology.
Yuan Zhou • Swiss Federal Institute for Aquatic Science and
Technology
Christine Zundel • Research Institute of Organic Agriculture (FiBL)

Senegal
Julienne Kuiseu • CORAF/WECARD
Moctar Toure • Independent

Slovakia
Pavol Bielek • Soil Science and Conservation Research Institute

South Africa

Syria
Nour Chachaty • Independent
Alessandra Galie • ICARDA
Stefania Grando • ICARDA
Theib Yousef Oweis • ICARDA
Manzoor Qadir • ICARDA
Kamil H. Shideed • ICARDA

Urmilla Bob • University of KwaZulu-Natal
Marnus Gouse • University of Pretoria
Moraka Makhura • Development Bank of Southern Africa

Taiwan

Spain

Tajikistan

Maria del Mar Delgado • University of Córdoba
Mario Giampietro • Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona
Luciano Mateos • Instituto de Agricultura Sostenible, CSIC
Marta Rivera-Ferre • Autonomous University of Barcelona

Sanginov S. Rajabovich • Soil Science Research Institute of
Agrarian Academy of Sciences

Sri Lanka
Deborah Bossio • International Water Management Institute
Charlotte de Fraiture • International Water Management Institute
Francis Ndegwa Gichuki • International Water Management
Institute
David Molden • International Water Management Institute

Sudan
Ali Taha Ayoub • Ahfal University for Women
Asha El Karib • ACORD
Aggrey Majok • Independent
Ahmed S.M. El Wakeel • NBSAP
Balgis M.E. Osman-Elasha • Higher Council for Environment &
Natural Resources (HCENR)

Mubarik Ali • World Vegetable Center

Tanzania
Roshan Abdallah • Tropical Pesticides Research Institute (TPRI)
Stella N. Bitende • Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries
Development
Sachin Das • Animal Diseases Research Institute
Aida Cuthbert Isinika • Sokoine University of Agriculture
Rose Rita Kingamkono • Tanzania Commission for Science &
Technology
Evelyne Lazaro • Sokoine University of Agriculture
Razack Lokina • University of Dar es Salaam
Lutgard Kokulinda Kagaruki • Animal Diseases Research
Institute
Elizabeth J.Z. Robinson • University of Dar es Salaam

Thailand
Thammarat Koottatep • Asian Institute of Technology
Anna Stabrawa • United Nations Environment Programme

Sweden
Susanne Johansson • Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences
Richard Langlais • Nordregio, Nordic Center for Spatial
Devleopment
Veli-Matti Loiske • Södertörns University College
Fred Saunders • Södertörns University College
Martin Wierup • Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences

Trinidad and Tobago
Salisha Bellamy • Ministry of Agriculture, Land & Marine
Resources
Ericka Prentice-Pierre • Agriculture Sector Reform Program
(ASRP), IBD

Tunisia
Switzerland
Felix Bachmann • Swiss College of Agriculture

01-SR.indd 86

Mohamed Annabi • Institut National de la Recherche
Agronomique de Tunisie

11/3/08 12:09:05 PM

Authors and Review Editors of Global and Sub-Global Reports | 87

Rym Ben Zid • Independent
Mustapha Guellouz • IAASTD CWANA, DSIPS - Diversification
Program, ICARDA
Kawther Latiri • Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique
de Tunisie
Lokman Zaibet • Ecole Supérieure d’Agriculture de Mograne,
Zaghouan

Turkey
Nazimi Acikgoz • Ege University
Hasan Akca • Gaziosmanpasa University
Ahmet Ali Koc • Akdeniz University
Gulcan Eraktan • University of Ankara
Yalcin Kaya • Trakya Agricultural Research Institute
Suat Oksuz • Ege University
Ayfer Tan • Aegean Agricultural Research Institute
Ahu UncuogluTubitak • Research Institute for Genetic
Engineering and Biotechnology (RIGEB)
Fahri Yavuz • Ataturk University

Uganda
Apili E.C. Ejupu • Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industries and
Fisheries
Apophia Atukunda • Environment Consultancy League
Dan Nkoowa Kisauzi • Nkoola Institutional Development
Associates (NIDA)
Imelda Kashaija • National Agriculture Resource Organization
(NARO)
Theresa Sengooba • International Food Policy Research Institute

Ukraine
Yuriy Nesterov • Heifer International

United Arab Emirates
Abdin Zein El-Abdin • Lootah Educational Foundation

United Kingdom
Michael Appleby • World Society for the Protection of Animals,
London
Steve Bass • International Institute for Environment and
Development
Stephen Biggs • University of East Anglia
Norman Clark • The Open University
Joanna Chataway • Open University
Janet Cotter • University of Exeter
Peter Craufurd • University of Reading
Barbara Dinham • Pesticide Action Network
Cathy Rozel Farnworth • Independent
Les Firbank • North Wyke Research
Chris Garforth • University of Reading
Anil Graves • Cranfield University
Andrea Grundy • National Farmers’ Union
David Grzywacz • University of Greenwich
Andy Hall • United Nations University – Maastricht
Brian Johnson • Independent
Sajid Kazmi • Middlesex University Business School
Frances Kimmins • NR International Ltd
Chris D.B. Leakey • University of Plymouth
Karen Lock • London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine
Peter Lutman • Rothamsted Research
Ana Marr • University of Greenwich

01-SR.indd 87

John Marsh • Independent
Adrienne Martin • University of Greenwich
Ian Maudlin • Centre for Tropical Veterinary Medicine
Nigel Maxted • University of Birmingham
Mara Miele • Cardiff University
Selyf Morgan • Cardiff University
Joe Morris • Cranfield University
Johanna Pennarz • ITAD
Gerard Porter • University of Edinburgh
Charlie Riches • University of Greenwich
Peter Robbins • Independent
Paresh Shah • London Higher
Geoff Simm • Scottish Agricultural College
Linda Smith • Department for Environment, Food and Rural
Affairs (end Mar 2006)
Nicola Spence • Central Science Laboratory
Joyce Tait • University of Edinburgh
K.J. Thomson • University of Aberdeen
Philip Thornton • International Livestock Research Institute
Bill Vorley • International Institute for Environment and
Development
Jeff Waage • London International Development Centre

United States
Emily Adams • Independent
Elizabeth A. Ainsworth • U.S. Department of Agriculture
Wisdom Akpalu • Environmental Economics Research &
Consultancy (EERAC)
Molly D. Anderson • Food Systems Integrity
David Andow • University of Minnesota
Patrick Avato • The World Bank
Mohamed Bakarr • Center for Applied Biodiversity Science,
Conservation International
Revathi Balakrishnan • Independent
Debbie Barker • International Forum on Globalization
Barbara Best • U.S. Agency for International Development
Regina Birner • International Food Policy Research Policy
Institute
Dave Bjorneberg • U.S. Department of Agriculture
David Bouldin • Cornell University
Rodney Brown • Brigham Young University
Sandra Brown • Winrock International
Rebecca Burt • U.S. Department of Agriculture
Lorna M. Butler • Iowa State University
Kenneth Cassman • University of Nebraska, Lincoln
Gina Castillo • Oxfam America
Medha Chandra • Pesticide Action Network, North America
Jahi Michael Chappell • University of Michigan
Luis Fernando Chávez • Emory University
Joel I. Cohen • Independent
Randy L. Davis • U.S. Department of Agriculture
Daniel de la Torre Ugarte • University of Tennessee
Steven Dehmer • University of Minnesota
Medha Devare • Cornell University
Amadou Makhtar Diop • Rodale Institute
William E. Easterling • Pennsylvania State University
Kristie L. Ebi • ESS, LLC
Denis Ebodaghe • U.S. Department of Agriculture
Shelley Feldman • Cornell University
Shaun Ferris • Catholic Relief Services
Jorge M. Fonseca • University of Arizona

11/3/08 12:09:05 PM

88 | Annex B

J.B. Friday • University of Hawaii
Tilly Gaillard • Independent
Constance Gewa • George Mason University
Paul Guillebeau • University of Georgia
James C. Hanson • University of Maryland
Celia Harvey • Conservation International
Mary Hendrickson • University of Missouri
William Heffernan • University of Missouri
Paul Heisey • U.S. Department of Agriculture
Kenneth Hinga • U.S. Department of Agriculture
Omololu John Idowu • Cornell University
Marcia Ishii-Eiteman • Pesticide Action Network, North America
R. Cesar Izaurralde • Joint Global Change Research Institute
Eric Holt Jiménez • Food First/Institute for Food and
Development Policy
Moses T.K. Kairo • Florida A&M University
David Knopp • Emerging Markets Group (EMG)
Russ Kruska • International Livestock Research Institute
Andrew D.B. Leakey • University of Illinois
Karen Luz • World Wildlife Fund
Uford Madden • Florida A&M University
Pedro Marques • The World Bank
Harold J. McArthur • University of Hawaii at Manoa
A.J. McDonald • Cornell University
Patrick Meier • Tufts University
Douglas L. Murray • Colorado State University
Clare Narrod • International Food Policy Research Institute
James K. Newman • Iowa State University
Diane Osgood • Business for Social Responsibility
Jonathan Padgham • The World Bank
Harry Palmier • The World Bank
Philip Pardey • University of Minnesota
Ivette Perfecto • University of Michigan
Cameron Pittelkow • Independent
Carl E. Pray • Rutgers University
Elizabeth Ransom • University of Richmond
Laura T. Raynolds • Colorado State University
Peter Reich • University of Minnesota
Robin Reid • Colorado State University
Susan Riha • Cornell University
Claudia Ringler • International Food Policy Research Institute
Steven Rose • U.S. Environmental Protection Agency

01-SR.indd 88

Mark Rosegrant • International Food Policy Research Institute
Erika Rosenthal • Center for International Environmental Law
Michael Schechtman • U.S. Department of Agriculture
Sara Scherr • Ecoagriculture Partners
Jeremy Schwartzbord • Independent
Leonid Sharashkin • Independent
Matthew Spurlock • University of Massachusetts
Timothy Sulser • International Food Policy Research Institute
Steve Suppan • Institute for Agriculture and Trade Policy
Douglas L. Vincent • University of Hawaii at Manoa
Pai-Yei Whung • U.S. Department of Agriculture
David E. Williams • U.S. Department of Agriculture
Stan Wood • International Food Policy Research Institute
Angus Wright • California State University, Sacramento
Howard Yana Shapiro • MARS, Inc.
Stacey Young • U.S. Agency for International Development
Tingju Zhu • International Food Policy Research Institute

Uruguay
Gustavo Ferreira • Instituto Nacional de Investigación
Agropecuaria (INIA), Tacuarembó
Luis Carlos Paolino • Technological Laboratory of Uruguay
(LATU)
Lucía Pitalluga • University of the Republic

Uzbekistan
Sandjar Djalalov • Independent
Alisher A. Tashmatov • Ministry of Finance

Viet Nam
Duong Van Chin • The Cuulong Delta Rice Research Institute

Zambia
Charlotte Wonani • University of Zambia

Zimbabwe
Chiedza L. Muchopa • University of Zimbabwe
Lindela R. Ndlovu • National University of Science and
Technology
Idah Sithole-Niang • University of Zimbabwe
Stephen Twomlow • International Crops Research Institute for
the Semi-Arid Tropics

11/3/08 12:09:06 PM

Annex C

Peer Reviewers

Argentina

France

Sandra Elizabeth Sharry • Universidad Nacional de La Plata

Louis Aumaitre • EAAP
Dominique Hervé • Institute for Development Research (IRD)
Jacques Loyat • Ministry of Agriculture
Michèle • Tixier-Boichard • Ministry of Higher Education and
Research

Australia
Government of Australia
Simon Hearn • Australian Centre for International Agricultural
Research
Stuart Hill • University of Western Sydney
Tony Jansen • TerraCircle Inc.
Sarah Withers • Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade

Germany
Jan van Aken • Greenpeace International

India
Austria

Shellemiah Keya • WARDA
Peter Neuenschwander • IITA

Pradip Dey • Indian Council of Agricultural Research
Ramesh Chand • NCAP
C.P. Chandrasekhar • Jawaharlal Nehru University
Sudhir Kochhar • Indian Council of Agricultural Research
Aditya Misra • Project Directorate on Cattle
Suresh Pal • NCAP
C. Upendranadh • Institute for Human Development

Brazil

Indonesia

Government of Brazil
Odo Primavesi • Embrapa Pecuaria Sudeste (Southeast Embrapa
Cattle)
Francisco Reifschneider • Embrapa

Russell Dilts • Environmental Services Program

Canada

Ireland

David Cooper • Convention on Biological Diversity
Donald C. Cole • University of Toronto
Harriet • Friedman • University of Toronto
JoAnn Jaffe • University of Regina
Muffy Koch • Agbios
Iain C. MacGillivray • Canadian International Development
Agency
Mary Stockdale • University of British Columbia, Okanagan

Government of Ireland
Sharon Murphy • Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food

Elfriede Fuhrmann • BMLFUW
Government of Austria

Benin

Denmark
Frands Dolberg • University of Arhus
Henrik Egelyng • Danish Institute for International Studies (DIIS)

Dominican Republic

Iran
Farhad Saeidi Naeini • Iranian Research Institute of Plant Protection

Italy
Agriculture Department • FAO
Susan Braatz • FAO
Jorge Csirke • FAO
Forestry Department • FAO
Gender, Equity and Rural Employment Division of FAO
Yianna Lambrou • FAO
Shivaji Pandey • FAO
Teri Raney • FAO
Jeff Tschirley • FAO
Harry van der Wulp • FAO

Rufino Pérez-Brennan • ALIMENTEC S.A.

Kenya
Egypt
Ayman Abou-Hadid • Agricultural Research Center

Finland
Riika Rajalahti • Ministry of Foreign Affairs

Christian Borgemeister • International Center for Insect
Physiology and Ecology
Marcus Lee • United Nations Environment Programme
Evans Mwangi • University of Nairobi
Nalini Sharma • United Nations Environment Programme
Anna Stabrawa • United Nations Environment Programme
89

01-SR.indd 89

11/3/08 12:09:06 PM

90 | Annex C

Madagascar
Xavier Rakotonjanahary • FOFIFA

Reyes Tirado • Greenpeace International
Stephanie Williamson • Pesticide Action Network, UK

Malaysia

United States

Li Ching Lim • Third World Network

Miguel Altieri • University of California, Berkeley
Jock Anderson • The World Bank
Molly Anderson • Food Systems Integrity
Michael Arbuckle • The World Bank
Philip L. Bereano • University of Washington
David Bouldin • Cornell University
Lynn Brown • The World Bank
Rodney Brown • Brigham Young University
Glenn Carpenter • U.S. Department of Agriculture
Janet Carpenter • U.S. Department of Agriculture
Jean-Christophe Carret • The World Bank
Cheryl Christensen • U.S. Department of Agriculture
Nata Duvvury • International Center for Research on Women
Denis Ebodaghe • U.S. Department of Agriculture
Indira Ekanayake • The World Bank
Erick Fernandes • The World Bank
Steven Finch • U.S. Department of Agriculture
Mary-Ellen Foley • The World Bank
Lucia Fort • The World Bank
Christian Foster • U.S. Department of Agriculture
Bill Freese • Center for Food Safety
Government of the United States
Doug Gurian-Sherman • Union of Concerned Scientists
Michael Hansen • Consumers Union of US
Kenneth Hinga • U.S. Department of Agriculture
Gregory Jaffe • Center for Science in the Public Interest
Randy Johnson • U.S. Forest Service
Nadim Khouri • The World Bank
Jack Kloppenburg • University of Wisconsin
Masami Kojima • The World Bank
Anne Kuriakose • The World Bank
Saul Landau • California Polytechnic, Pomona
Jennifer Long • University of Illinois, Chicago
Karen Luz • World Wildlife Fund
William Martin • The World Bank
A.J. McDonald • Cornell University
Rekha Mehra • The World Bank
Douglas L. Murray • Colorado State University
Michael Naim • U.S. Department of Agriculture
John Nash • The World Bank
World Nieh • US Forest Service
Jon Padgham • World Bank
Mikko Paunio • The World Bank
Eija Pehu • The World Bank
Carl Pray • Rutgers University
Margaret Reeves • Pesticide Action Network North America
Peter Riggs • Forum on Democracy & Trade
Naomi Roht-Arriaza • University of California Hastings College
of Law
Phrang Roy • The Christensen Fund
Marc Safley • U.S. Department of Agriculture
Michael Schechtman • U.S. Department of Agriculture
Sara Scherr • Ecoagriculture Partners
Seth Shames • Ecoagriculture Partners
Doreen Stabinsky • College of the Atlantic
Lorann Stallones • Colorado State University
Gwendolyn H. Urey • California Polytechnic, Pomona

Nepal
Rajendra Shrestha • AFORDA

Netherlands
Judith Francis • Technical Centre for Agricultural and Rural
Cooperation (CTA)
Juan Lopez Villar • Friends of the Earth International

New Zealand
A. Neil Macgregor • Journal of Organic Systems

Philippines
Leo Sebastian • Philippine Rice Research Institute

Poland
Ursula Soltysiak • AgroBio Test

Spain
Mario Giampietro • Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona
Marta Rivera-Ferre • Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona

Sweden
Ulf Herrström • Independent
Permilla Malmer • Swedish Biodiversity Center

Switzerland
David Duthie • United Nations Environment Programme

Tanzania
Jamidu Katima • University of Dar es Salaam

Tunisia
Rym Ben Zid • Independent

Uganda
Kevin Akoyi • Vredeseilanden
Henry Ssali • Kawanda Agricultural Research Institute

United Kingdom
Stephen Biggs • University of East Anglia
Janet Cotter • Greenpeace International, Exeter University
Stuart Coupe • Practical Action
Peter Craufurd • Reading University
Sue D’Arcy • Masterfoods UK
Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs
Department for International Development
Cathy Rozel Farnworth • Independent
Emma Hennessey • Defra
John Marsh • Independent
Clare Oxborrow • Friends of the Earth England, Wales and
Northern Ireland
Helena Paul • EcoNexus
Pete Riley • GM Freeze
Jo Ripley • Independent
Geoff Tansey • Independent

01-SR.indd 90

11/3/08 12:09:07 PM

Peer Reviewers | 91

Evert Van der Sluis • South Dakota State University
David Winickoff • University of California, Berkeley
Angus Wright • California State University, Sacramento
Stacey Young • U.S. Agency International Development	

01-SR.indd 91

11/3/08 12:09:07 PM

Annex D

Secretariat and Cosponsor Focal Points

Secretariat
World Bank
Marianne Cabraal, Leonila Castillo, Jodi Horton, Betsi Isay,
Pekka Jamsen, Pedro Marques, Beverly McIntyre, Wubi
Mekonnen, June Remy
UNEP
Marcus Lee, Nalini Sharma, Anna Stabrawa
UNESCO
Guillen Calvo

With special thanks to the Publications team: Audrey Ringler
(logo design), Pedro Marques (proofing and graphics), Ketill
Berger and Eric Fuller (graphic design)

Regional Institutes
Sub-Saharan Africa – African Centre for Technology Studies
(ACTS)
Ronald Ajengo, Elvin Nyukuri, Judi Wakhungu

Central and West Asia and North Africa – International Center
for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA)
Mustapha Guellouz, Lamis Makhoul, Caroline Msrieh-Seropian,
Ahmed Sidahmed, Cathy Farnworth
Latin America and the Caribbean – Inter-American Institute for
Cooperation on Agriculture (IICA)
Enrique Alarcon, Jorge Ardila Vásquez, Viviana Chacon, Johana
Rodríguez, Gustavo Sain
East and South Asia and the Pacific – WorldFish Center
Karen Khoo, Siew Hua Koh, Li Ping Ng, Jamie Oliver, Prem
Chandran Venugopalan

Cosponsor Focal Points
GEF	
UNDP	
UNEP	
UNESCO	
WHO	
World Bank	
	

Mark Zimsky
Philip Dobie
Ivar Baste
Salvatore Arico, Walter Erdelen
Jorgen Schlundt
Mark Cackler, Kevin Cleaver, Eija Pehu,
Juergen Voegele

92

01-SR.indd 92

11/3/08 12:09:07 PM

Annex E

Steering Committee for Consultative Process and Advisory
Bureau for Assessment
Steering Committee
The Steering Committee was established to oversee the
consultative process and recommend whether an international
assessment was needed, and if so, what was the goal, the scope,
the expected outputs and outcomes, governance and management
structure, location of the Secretariat and funding strategy.

Sam Dryden, Managing Director, Emergent Genetics
David Evans, Former Head of Research and Technology, Syngenta
International
Steve Parry, Sustainable Agriculture Research and Development
Program Leader, Unilever
Mumeka M. Wright, Director, Bimzi Ltd., Zambia

Co-chairs

Consumer Groups

Louise Fresco, Assistant Director General for Agriculture, FAO
Seyfu Ketema, Executive Secretary, Association for Strengthening
Agricultural Research in East and Central Africa (ASARECA)
Claudia Martinez Zuleta, Former Deputy Minister of the
Environment, Colombia
Rita Sharma, Principal Secretary and Rural Infrastructure
Commissioner, Government of Uttar Pradesh, India
Robert T. Watson, Chief Scientist, The World Bank

Nongovernmental Organizations
Benny Haerlin, Advisor, Greenpeace International
Marcia Ishii-Eiteman, Senior Scientist, Pesticide Action Network
North America Regional Center (PANNA)
Monica Kapiriri, Regional Program Officer for NGO
Enhancement and Rural Development, Aga Khan
Raymond C. Offenheiser, President, Oxfam America
Daniel Rodriguez, International Technology Development Group
(ITDG), Latin America Regional Office, Peru

UN Bodies
Ivar Baste, Chief, Environment Assessment Branch, UN
Environment Programme
Wim van Eck, Senior Advisor, Sustainable Development and
Healthy Environments, World Health Organization
Joke Waller-Hunter, Executive Secretary, UN Framework
Convention on Climate Change
Hamdallah Zedan, Executive Secretary, UN Convention on
Biological Diversity

At-large Scientists
Adrienne Clarke, Laureate Professor, School of Botany, University
of Melbourne, Australia
Denis Lucey, Professor of Food Economics, Dept. of Food
Business & Development, University College Cork, Ireland,
and Vice-President NATURA
Vo-tong Xuan, Rector, Angiang University, Vietnam

Private Sector
Momtaz Faruki Chowdhury, Director, Agribusiness Center for
Competitiveness and Enterprise Development, Bangladesh

Michael Hansen, Consumers International
Greg Jaffe, Director, Biotechnology Project, Center for Science in
the Public Interest
Samuel Ochieng, Chief Executive, Consumer Information
Network

Producer Groups
Mercy Karanja, Chief Executive Officer, Kenya National Farmers’
Union
Prabha Mahale, World Board, International Federation Organic
Agriculture Movements (IFOAM)
Tsakani Ngomane, Director Agricultural Extension Services,
Department of Agriculture, Limpopo Province, Republic of
South Africa
Armando Paredes, Presidente, Consejo Nacional Agropecuario
(CNA)

Scientific Organizations
Jorge Ardila Vásquez, Director Area of Technology and
Innovation, Inter-American Institute for Cooperation on
Agriculture (IICA)
Samuel Bruce-Oliver, NARS Senior Fellow, Global Forum for
Agricultural Research Secretariat
Adel El-Beltagy, Chair, Center Directors Committee, Consultative
Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR)
Carl Greenidge, Director, Center for Rural and Technical
Cooperation, Netherlands
Mohamed Hassan, Executive Director, Third World Academy of
Sciences (TWAS)
Mark Holderness, Head Crop and Pest Management, CAB
International
Charlotte Johnson-Welch, Public Health and Gender
Specialist and Nata Duvvury, Director Social Conflict and
Transformation Team, International Center for Research on
Women (ICRW)
Thomas Rosswall, Executive Director, International Council for
Science (ICSU)
Judi Wakhungu, Executive Director, African Center for
Technology Studies

93

01-SR.indd 93

11/3/08 12:09:07 PM

94 | Annex E

Governments
Australia: Peter Core, Director, Australian Centre for
International Agricultural Research
China: Keming Qian, Director General Inst. Agricultural
Economics, Dept. of International Cooperation, Chinese
Academy of Agricultural Science
Finland: Tiina Huvio, Senior Advisor, Agriculture and Rural
Development, Ministry of Foreign Affairs
France: Alain Derevier, Senior Advisor, Research for Sustainable
Development, Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Germany: Hans-Jochen de Haas, Head, Agricultural and Rural
Development, Federal Ministry of Economic Cooperation
and Development (BMZ)
Hungary: Zoltan Bedo, Director, Agricultural Research Institute,
Hungarian Academy of Sciences
Ireland: Aidan O’Driscoll, Assistant Secretary General,
Department of Agriculture and Food
Morocco: Hamid Narjisse, Director General, INRA

01-SR.indd 94

Russia: Eugenia Serova, Head, Agrarian Policy Division, Institute
for Economy in Transition
Uganda: Grace Akello, Minister of State for Northern Uganda
Rehabilitation
United Kingdom Paul Spray, Head of Research, DFID
United States: Rodney Brown, Deputy Under Secretary of
Agriculture and Hans Klemm, Director of the Office of
Agriculture, Biotechnology and Textile Trade Affairs,
Department of State

Foundations and Unions
Susan Sechler, Senior Advisor on Biotechnology Policy,
Rockefeller Foundation
Achim Steiner, Director General, The World Conservation Union
(IUCN)
Eugene Terry, Director, African Agricultural Technology
Foundation

11/3/08 12:09:07 PM

Steering Committee for Consultative Process and Advisory Bureau for Assessment | 95

Advisory Bureau
Non-government Representatives
Consumer Groups
Jaime Delgado • Asociación Peruana de Consumidores y Usuarios
Greg Jaffe • Center for Science in the Public Interest
Catherine Rutivi • Consumers International
Indrani Thuraisingham • Southeast Asia Council for Food
Security and Trade
Jose Vargas Niello • Consumers International Chile

International organizations
Nata Duvvury • International Center for Research on Women
Emile Frison • CGIAR
Mohamed Hassan • Third World Academy of Sciences
Mark Holderness • GFAR
Jeffrey McNeely • World Conservation Union (IUCN)
Dennis Rangi • CAB International
John Stewart • International Council of Science (ICSU)

NGOs
Kevin Akoyi • Vredeseilanden
Hedia Baccar • Association pour la Protection de l’Environment
de Kairouan
Benedikt Haerlin • Greenpeace International
Juan Lopez • Friends of the Earth International
Khadouja Mellouli • Women for Sustainable Development
Patrick Mulvaney • Practical Action
Romeo Quihano • Pesticide Action Network
Maryam Rahmaniam • CENESTA
Daniel Rodriguez • International Technology Development Group

Private Sector
Momtaz Chowdhury • Agrobased Technology and Industry
Development
Giselle L. D’Almeida • Interface
Eva Maria Erisgen • BASF
Armando Paredes • Consejo Nacional Agropecuario
Steve Parry • Unilever
Harry Swaine • Syngenta (resigned)

Producer Groups
Shoaib Aziz • Sustainable Agriculture Action Group of Pakistan
Philip Kiriro • East African Farmers Federation
Kristie Knoll • Knoll Farms

01-SR.indd 95

Prabha Mahale • International Federation of Organic Agriculture
Movements
Anita Morales • Apit Tako
Nizam Selim • Pioneer Hatchery

Government Representatives
Central and West Asia and North Africa
Egypt • Ahlam Al Naggar
Iran • Hossein Askari
Kyrgyz Republic • Djamin Akimaliev
Saudi Arabia • Abdu Al Assiri, Taqi Elldeen Adar, Khalid Al
Ghamedi
Turkey • Yalcin Kaya, Mesut Keser

East/South Asia/Pacific
Australia • Simon Hearn
China • Puyun Yang
India • PK Joshi
Japan • Ryuko Inoue
Philippines • William Medrano

Latin America and Caribbean
Brazil • Sebastiao Barbosa, Alexandre Cardoso, Paulo Roberto
Galerani, Rubens Nodari
Dominican Republic • Rafael Perez Duvergé
Honduras • Arturo Galo, Roberto Villeda Toledo
Uruguay • Mario Allegri

North America and Europe
Austria • Hedwig Woegerbauer
Canada • Iain MacGillivray
Finland • Marja-Liisa Tapio-Bistrom
France • Michel Dodet
Ireland • Aidan O’Driscoll, Tony Smith
Russia • Eugenia Serova, Sergey Alexanian
United Kingdom • Jim Harvey, David Howlett, John Barret
United States • Christian Foster

Sub-Saharan Africa
Benin • Jean Claude Codjia
Gambia • Sulayman Trawally
Kenya • Evans Mwangi
Mozambique • Alsácia Atanásio, Júlio Mchola
Namibia • Gillian Maggs-Kölling
Senegal • Ibrahim Diouck

11/3/08 12:09:08 PM

01-SR.indd 96

11/3/08 12:09:19 PM

SCIENCE | AGRICULTURE | CURRENT AFFAIRS
IAASTD

“Although considered by many to be a success story, the benefits of productivity increases in
world agriculture are unevenly spread. Often the poorest of the poor have gained little or nothing; and 850 million people are still hungry or malnourished with an additional 4 million more
joining their ranks annually. We are putting food that appears cheap on our tables; but it is
food that is not always healthy and that costs us dearly in terms of water, soil and the biological
diversity on which all our futures depend.”
—Professor Bob Watson, director, IAASTD

The International Assessment of Agricultural Knowledge, Science and Technology for Development (IAASTD) , on which Agriculture at the Crossroads is based, was a three-year collaborative effort begun in 2005 that assessed our capacity to meet development and sustainability goals of:

Agriculture
at a
Crossroads
International Assessment of Agricultural Knowledge,
Science and Technology for Development

• Reducing hunger and poverty
• Improving nutrition, health and rural livelihoods
• Facilitating social and environmental sustainability

In addition to assessing existing conditions and knowledge, the IAASTD uses a simple set of
model projections to look at the future, based on knowledge from past events and existing
trends such as population growth, rural/urban food and poverty dynamics, loss of agricultural
land, water availability, and climate change effects.
This set of volumes comprises the findings of the IAASTD. It consists of a Global Report, a
brief Synthesis Report, and 5 subglobal reports. Taken as a whole, the IAASTD reports are an
indispensable reference for anyone working in the field of agriculture and rural development,
whether at the level of basic research, policy, or practice.
Cover design by Linda McKnight, McKnight Design, LLC
Cover photos (left to right): Steve Raymer, Dean Conger, and
William Albert Allard of National Geographic Stock, Mark Edwards (both images) of Peter Arnold, Inc.

Washington • Covelo • London
www.islandpress.org
All Island Press books are printed on recycled, acid-free paper.

Synthesis Report

Governed by a multi-stakeholder bureau comprised of 30 representatives from government
and 30 from civil society, the process brought together 110 governments and 400 experts, representing non-governmental organizations (NGOs), the private sector, producers, consumers,
the scientific community, multilateral environment agreements (MEAs), and multiple international agencies involved in the agricultural and rural development sectors.

Synthesis Report

