From Shared Risk to Shared Value :
The Business Case for Disaster Risk Reduction

UNISDR is grateful to the organisations whose logos are shown below for their financial and material
contributions to the production of the 2013 Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction. In
addition, financial resources were also generously made by the European Commission (DirectorateGeneral for Humanitarian Aid and Civil Protection, and Directorate-General for Development and
Cooperation), and by the Governments of Australia, Japan, Norway, and the United States of America.

From Shared Risk to Shared Value:
The Business Case for Disaster Risk Reduction

The Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction (GAR) 2013 has augmented reality (AR) icons
sprinkled throughout it, which facilitate connection with its companion application GAR for Tangible
Earth (GfT). To use them, first point the camera of your GfT-installed tablet computer or smartphone at
these icons, then press the AR button as it appears, and a variety of dynamic information functions
designed to enrich the reading experience will play in your device.

Thailand floods

The Earth Icon: Links the user to a dynamic 3D globe, enabling
geospatial data relevant to the subject in the text.

U.S. droughts

The Tablet Icon: Opens dynamic animations and additional information
on the static print charts in GAR.

Extensive disasters

The Researcher Icon: Links to data about the researchers behind the
article being read, their reports, web links, and videos.

To download the application, use the Qbarcode provided at the end of this document or visit www.
preventionweb.net/gar.

ISBN 978-92-1-132038-1
© United Nations 2013. All rights reserved.
Disclaimer
The views expressed in this publication do not necessarily reflect the views of the United Nations Secretariat. The designations employed
and the presentation of the material do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of the United Nations Secretariat
concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area, or of its authorities, or concerning the delineation of its frontiers or
boundaries.
This publication may be freely quoted but acknowledgement of the source is requested.
Citation: UNISDR (2013) From Shared Risk to Shared Value –The Business Case for Disaster Risk Reduction. Global Assessment Report on
Disaster Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland: United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNISDR).
Design and layout: AXIS and ELP, Tokyo, Japan
Editing: Martha Bonilla
Printing: Imprimerie Nouvelle Gonnet Belley, France

This paper contains 60% post-consumer recycled fibre and 40% FSC certified virgin fibre sourced from well managed forests.

ii

Foreword
The third edition of the United Nations Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction warns
that the worst is yet to come.
This worrying news follows three consecutive years
in which direct economic losses from disasters have
soared past $100 billion. If uninsured losses were included, the figure would be even more staggering.
Based on a new state-of-the art global risk model,
the report’s findings should raise concern among
policymakers and businesses. In a world of on-going population growth, rapid urbanization, climate
change and an approach to investment that discounts disaster risk, the potential for future losses
is enormous. The global community continues to
mix a destructive ‘cocktail of disaster risk’ despite
catastrophic losses in recent years from the Japan
earthquake and tsunami, floods in Pakistan and
Thailand and the destructive Super Storm Sandy.

Disaster risk management reduces uncertainty,
builds confidence, cuts costs and creates value.
More private sector senior executives are coming
to recognize this. But growing recognition must
be translated into a more systematic approach to
disaster risk management that will make tomorrow’s
world a safer place.
As we move towards building a new, more inclusive
and ambitious post-Hyogo Framework for Disaster
Risk Reduction for the period following 2015, I call
on governments, civil society and, in particular, the
private sector to strengthen their partnerships for
a safer future.
I commend this report to leaders from the public
and private sectors as well as civil society in the
hopes that it will inspire all to redouble our collective efforts to create and maintain resilient communities and nations.

At the same time, the report documents encouraging signs of progress. Public-private partnerships
in risk management have proven their worth during several disasters, including the 2010 and 2011
earthquakes in Christchurch, New Zealand.

Ban Ki-moon
Secretary-General of the United Nations

iii

Direct disaster losses are at least 50 percent higher than
internationally reported figures: Total direct losses in 40 low and middle
income countries amount to US$305 billion over the last 30 years; of these more
than 30 percent were not internationally reported (Part I-Intro).

Disasters directly affect business performance and undermine
longer-term competitiveness and sustainability: When business leaves
it may never return. Prior to the 1995 earthquake, the port of Kobe was the world’s
sixth-busiest. Despite a massive investment in reconstruction and efforts to improve
competitiveness, by 2010, it had fallen to 47th place (Chapter 1).

Globalised supply chains create new vulnerabilities: Toyota lost
$1.2 billion in product revenue from the 2011 Japan earthquake and tsunami
due to parts shortages that caused 150,000 fewer Toyota automobiles to be
manufactured in the USA, and reductions in production of 70% in India
and 50% in China (Chapter 1, Box 1.4).

Businesses loses its lifeline when critical infrastructure is hit: Most
of the 1,300 businesses surveyed in disaster prone cities in the Americas noted

disruptions in power and water supply and telecommunications
as top concerns (Chapter 15). Over 90% of damage to these lifelines occurs in
local disasters (Chapter 1).

GAR at a Glance

The “wake-up call”- disasters
are even costlier than we thought
iv

Small and medium enterprises are particularly at risk: A single
disaster may wipe out all or large parts of business capital of small
enterprises, in turn affecting large companies relying on local suppliers. Yet, less
than 15 percent of companies with less than 100 employees in disaster prone
cities in the Americas have a business continuity or crisis management
plan in place (Chapter 11).

Disaster risk is a new multi-trillion dollar asset class: Global capital
flows have transformed the landscape of disaster risk, creating a new pile of toxic
assets for businesses and governments that do not currently appear on balance
sheets (Chapter 2). Globally, US$71 trillion of assets would be exposed to onein-250 year earthquakes. In Honduras, already a one-in-33 year disaster would
create a significant financing gap for the government with impacts on future GDP
(Chapter 5).

Most disasters that could occur haven’t happened yet: Total
expected annual global loss from earthquakes and cyclone wind damage
alone now amounts to US$180 billion per year (Chapter 3). This figure does
not include the significant cost of local disasters from floods, landslides, fires and
storms (Chapter 4) or the cost of business interruption. Agriculture is also at risk:
in Mozambique a one-in-10 year drought would lower maize yields by 6 percent
and GDP by 0.3 percent (Chapter 6).

Risks to natural capital compromise future wealth: Disaster risks
include the loss and erosion of natural capital with serious consequences for
business, households and a country’s wealth. For example, wild-land fires
now affect all continents with global annual losses to tropical ecosystems alone
potentially reaching US$190 billion per year (Chapter 6). Land degradation
increases agricultural drought risk; in Africa, the total area with high degradation
and high drought hazard is almost 260,000 square km.

v

It’s no longer “business as usual”: Recent major disasters such as
Hurricane Sandy in 2012 and the 2011 floods in Thailand focused attention on the
growing impact of disasters on the private sector (Chapter 1). Many large
global businesses are now strengthening their risk management capacities. Yet,
businesses still display a ‘blind-spot’ to disaster risk, which is largely
ignored in economic forecasts and growth projections (Chapter 12).

Private investment largely determines disaster risk: In most economies
70–85 percent of overall investment is made by the private sector,
including annual institutional investments worth more than US$80
trillion globally. Both regulators and investors are increasingly demanding that
businesses disclose their hidden risks, including disaster risks (Chapter 12).

Insurance is critical to business resilience. Yet insurance pricing often
does not reflect risk levels or provide an adequate incentive for risk sensitive
business investment, particularly in low and middle income countries with low
penetration rates but rapidly growing markets (Chapter 13). In China, for example,

only 3 percent of properties are insured against earthquake and 5
percent against typhoons and floods.

Governments report significant progress in developing more effective disaster
response and preparedness strategies and are investing more to address
risks. Yet, the required shift to anticipate risks in public and private
investment remains a challenge for most (Chapter 14). The number of export
oriented Special Economic Zones has expanded from 176 zones in 47
countries in 1986 to 3,500 zones in 130 countries in 2006. Many such zones are
located in hazard-exposed areas increasing disaster risks.

vi

A new wave of urbanisation is unfolding in hazard-exposed countries and
with it, new opportunities for resilient investment emerge. In India alone, the urban
population is expected to grow from 379 million in 2010 to 606 million in 2030 and
875 million in 2050. Private construction company Mori Building has successfully
invested in earthquake resistant housing developments in Japan,
where earthquake resistance is the most important criteria for choosing new offices
for 92% of businesses (Chapter 8).

Tourism investment in small island developing states comes with
high levels of disaster risk – but also with large potential benefits
from investment in disaster risk management: 6 of the top 10
countries with the greatest proportion of assets at risk to cyclone wind
damage are small islands (Chapter 7). The competitiveness of these countries,
and businesses invested in them will depend on effective disaster risk
management, through for example certification programmes and voluntary
rating systems (Chapter 9).

Current agribusiness practice feeds global food insecurity: Over 2
million hectares of land have been acquired through international
agribusiness investment in drought prone countries like Ethiopia
(Chapter 10). Commodity markets, bio-fuel production, increasing demand and
low stocks, can transform production shortfalls due to drought into global food
price spikes, affecting low-income households, who buy most of the food they
consume. But new partnerships between small-holder farmers and businesses
show potential for a more resilient agriculture.

The business case for
disaster risk reduction
vii

The business case for stronger disaster risk management is threefold: It reduces uncertainty and strengthens confidence: Orion invested US$6
million in seismic protection in New Zealand that saved the company
US$65 million (Chapter 8). It opens the door to cost savings: preventive
investments by fishermen in Mexico saved each individual entrepreneur
US$35,000 during Hurricane Wilma in 2005 (Chapter 11). And it provides an
avenue for value creation: an Economist Intelligence Unit survey records that 63
percent of businesses see opportunities to generate value from disaster risk
reduction (Chapter 16). Businesses that have invested the most in risk management
may ﬁnancially outperform their peers.

Business attitudes are changing: Embedding disaster risk management in
business processes is increasingly seen as a key to resilience, competitiveness and
sustainability - a business survival kit in an increasingly unpredictable
world. One business survey now lists disaster risk as the 16th most important

out of the top 50 risks, and as the 6th most important driver
strengthening risk management (Chapter 16).

A new paradigm for disaster risk governance will include the
private sector: Only half the countries assessing progress against the UN
framework for disaster risk reduction (Hyogo Framework for Action) report on
active engagement with business on disaster risk management. Canada is a
notable exception with 20 private sector bodies represented on its
national platform (Chapter 15).

From managing “disasters”
to managing “risks”
viii

Creating shared value through disaster risk management: Most
businesses are currently addressing disaster risk through the paradigm of
business continuity planning. While essential, this is only one part of
building resilient investments to disaster risk management. Important further
steps are integrating disaster risk information into investment decisions;
building public-private risk governance and disclosing disaster risks and
costs on business balance sheets (Chapter 15). Innovative companies are beginning
to move in this direction, identifying disaster hot spots in their supply chains,
reporting on risk reduction measures and forging partnerships with municipal
governments.

Disaster risk management is a business opportunity: The development of
new crop-insurance products or more disaster resilient infrastructure expands
existing and opens up new markets, particularly in emerging economies
(Chapter 16). Companies are recognizing this and beginning to invest in the
development of products and services in support of disaster risk management.

As we now approach 2015, international efforts are intensifying to formulate a
new framework for disaster risk reduction. Ensuring that the business
case for disaster risk reduction is explicitly included in that framework will
provide a critical incentive for the constructive engagement by business

on which future resilience, competitiveness and sustainability
depend.

ix

The GAR 2013 brand iconography is based on an image of a person holding an inverted
umbrella. The inverted “A” in the GAR 2013 logo is a resonance of this motif.
The person holding an inverted umbrella is about seeing something from a new
perspective, a call for creative responsiveness to change. A simple ubiquitous tool,
proposed in a new way... the grandest breakthroughs often come from such humble
beginnings.
The image represents acting to overturn a legacy of apathy and ignorance. GAR 2013
provides clear and actionable information about the risks and rewards of disaster
risk reduction, as well as a wealth of information about how we unwittingly generate,
and exacerbate, risks.
The icon also represents the key message of GAR 2013: “Creating Shared Value.” This
is nowhere more evident than in the power that each of us has to work together to
make our societies more resilient, to reduce disaster risks and enable responsible use
of resources. Rain drops, one at a time, may seem insignificant, but given a platform
to become pooled resources, they can quickly become a powerful force for good.
Thus, the inverted umbrella is an icon of positive empowerment, advocating disaster
risk management as an opportunity rather than a cost, something which makes you
— your city, your business, your supply chain, and yourself — more sustainable and
more competitive.

xii

Preface
The Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk
Reduction: a retrospective
This 2013 Global Assessment Report on Disaster
Risk Reduction, From Shared Risk to Shared Value:
The Business Case for Disaster Risk Reduction
(GAR13), is the third biennial report coordinated by
the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNISDR).
The first Global Assessment Report on Disaster
Risk Reduction, Risk and Poverty in a Changing Climate (GAR09), as well as the second, Revealing Risk
– Redefining Development (GAR11), focused primarily on public policy and the role of national and local
governments in disaster risk reduction. The key message of GAR09 was that addressing the underlying

risk drivers is critical not only to the achievement of
the Hyogo Framework of Action (HFA)i, but also the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and climate
change adaptation. GAR11 built on that evidence
to provide guidance to governments on how to
effectively manage their disaster risk.
GAR09 highlighted how intensive disaster risk is
disproportionally concentrated in lower-income
countries with weak governance. Within countries,
it showed how underlying drivers—such as poor
urban governance, vulnerable rural livelihoods and
declining ecosystems—concentrate extensive disaster risk in low-income communities and households and drive further the depth and breadth of
poverty, undermining development (Figure 0.1).

Figure 0.1 GAR09 - Risk drivers and poverty outcomes

(Source: UNISDR, 2009)

xiii

It also found that, although progress was being
made to strengthen capacities for disaster preparedness and response, governments were challenged to tackle underlying risk drivers.
GAR11 provided further evidence on why disaster
risk was increasing and why existing efforts in its reduction were failing to address underlying risk drivers. The report provided an updated analysis of
global disaster risk and loss trends and a second biennial review of progress against the HFA. It then
identified political and economic imperatives for increased public investment in disaster risk reduction.
A cost-effective strategy for layering disaster risk
management was proposed—which layers of risks
to reduce; which to insure; and which to retain.
GAR11 described the mechanisms through which
governments can deliver responsible and consistent policies for risk reduction, integrate disaster
risk management into existing development

instruments, and build and strengthen risk governance capacities (Figure 0.2).
In most economies, public investment represents
only 15–30 percent of gross fixed capital formation.ii
How the other 70–85 percent of investment is made,
therefore, has far-reaching consequences on disaster risk accumulation and on the underlying risk
drivers identified in GAR09. In future, trillions of dollars of new business investment will pour into hazard-exposed regions, largely determining the future
of disaster risk.
Despite their importance, business investment
practices were neither highlighted in the HFA nor
have interactions between business investment
and disaster risk and the factors that mediate those
interactions been seriously examined. Like the HFA,
research and literature on this topic has concentrated on the role of governments, communities and
households rather than of businesses.

Figure 0.2 GAR11- Key elements for successful disaster risk management (DRM) across governance scales and development sectors

(Source: UNISDR, 2011)

xiv

Preface

Building on the findings of GAR09 and GAR11, this
third Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk
Reduction seeks to fill that gap. It explores why increasing disaster risks represent a growing problem for the economic and business community at
different scales. The report examines how paradoxically business investments that aimed to
strengthen competitiveness and productivity may
have inadvertently contributed to increasing risk.
GAR13 explores how businesses, by investing in
disaster risk management, can reduce costs and interruptions represented by disaster losses and impacts; how performance and reputation can also be
enhanced by minimising uncertainty and unpredictability; why effectively managing disaster risks
should be the hallmark of a competitive, sustainable
and resilient business; and why a broader approach
to business value creation that also addresses underlying drivers of risk is required.
GAR13 highlights the interdependence of the public
and private sectors and why business competitiveness, sustainability and resilience will also depend
on governments’ ability to manage disaster risk
through effective policies. Governments depend on
business investment to generate employment and
the wealth required to provide public services. Likewise, businesses depend on reliable public infrastructure and utilities, on efficient urban systems,
on an educated and healthy workforce and on a
range of ecosystem services. Reducing disaster
risks in business and in public investment presents
a win-win situation for both.
The principal of shared value involves creating economic value that also benefits society by addressing its needs and challenges (Porter and Kramer,
2011). Risk drivers, such as badly planned and managed urban development, environmental degradation, climate change and poverty and inequality, are
key societal challenges that also negatively affect
business performance. Thus they create shared
risks to both public and private sectors. Disaster
risk reduction can and should transform these

shared risks into shared value for business, governments and civil society.
Why do disasters challenge business?
The major disasters that struck Japan and Thailand
in 2011 and the United States of America in 2012 revealed how disasters can impact businesses. Earthquakes, floods and storms can damage exposed
and vulnerable factories, offices and other facilities
and resources, interrupting and paralysing output
and business processes.
But disaster risk does not stop at the factory gate.
Businesses depend on infrastructure and urban systems run by utilities and the public sector. Damage
to transport and energy networks, ports and airports or to neighbourhoods where employees live
interrupts business and imposes additional costs.
And in today’s globalised world, even businesses in
safe locations may be affected by disasters that hit
suppliers and partners on the other side of the globe.
Extended insurance coverage may enable businesses to compensate for both direct loss as well as supply chain interruption. But disasters have broader,
more pervasive effects on business competitiveness. When business is interrupted, skilled workers
may leave, market share may be lost to competitors,
relationships with key suppliers and partners may
be severed and confidence and reputation may be
eroded. Once business is lost, it may never come
back.
Businesses, of course, come in many shapes and
sizes. And different sizes are exposed to different
kinds of risk. Small businesses, for example, that
serve local markets are affected directly by localised extensive disasters, as associated with flooding
or landslides. And these businesses also depend
heavily on local public infrastructure. Destruction
of a bridge in a flash flood, for example, may isolate
a local smallholder farm, workshop or restaurant
from markets and suppliers for days. And many
such businesses go bankrupt because they lack the
cash flow or reserves to be resilient.
xv

Large global corporations, at the other end of the
spectrum and owing to their diversity and scale, are
largely buffered from local impacts in any particular
place. However, a major intensive disaster may critically disrupt their supply chains and global operations; for example, if a major transhipment hub or
key supplier is affected. And the recurrent impact of
smaller disaster events in regions where corporations seek to establish effective clusters of suppliers
and vibrant consumer markets may result in equally
significant losses in the medium to long term. Medium-sized enterprises and national industries similarly face different kinds of disaster risk as they may
be affected by both relatively small-scale localised
events and larger disasters.
Creating shared risks
Although hazards such as earthquakes, cyclones
and tsunamis are natural in origin, there is nothing
natural about the way disaster risk has become embedded in the contemporary business landscape.
Decades of businesses decentralising and outsourcing production to facilities located in areas with
comparative advantages, such as low labour costs
and easy access to export markets, has been critical
to enhancing business competitiveness and productivity. However, because many of these areas
are hazard prone, it has dramatically increased the
exposure of businesses and their supply chains to
devastating hazards.
Investors have paid insufficient attention to this
growing hazard exposure and its threat to business
resilience, competitiveness and sustainability.
Country briefings, analysts’ reports, competitiveness indices and business forecasts rarely mention
disaster risk, even in high-risk regions. Cities and
countries, competing to attract investment, have
generally downplayed the risks, in some cases
even offering incentives to businesses to locate in
hazard-exposed areas. And the pricing of risk in insurance markets has yet to act as an effective disincentive to investment in hazard-exposed areas.
In other words, economic globalisation has enabled
xvi

Preface

critical gains in business productivity and efficiency,
but those gains have been at the expense of an overaccumulation of disaster risk in many business sectors and in the global economy as a whole.
Many of these risks and costs are externalised,
transferred to and shared with governments, society at large and future generations. As GAR09 highlighted, disasters disproportionately affect lower-income countries, communities and households, and
those who benefit least from wealth creation owing
to economic globalisation.
However, from the perspective of shared value, this
process of risk transfer is far from external to business. Losses to public infrastructure and services, to
the workforce and to ecosystems also ultimately
threaten the sustainability of all businesses—large
and small—and thus in the medium to long term,
become a shared risk.
The business case for disaster risk reduction
In today’s global economic and political turmoil,
rapid technological change and increasing interconnectedness of global trade, financial markets
and supply chains, larger businesses perceive an increasingly riskier world. For businesses, this means
an array of complex, unpredictable events and sudden change in which risks can manifest swiftly and
unexpectedly, with far-reaching ramifications.
Within this landscape, the reduction of disaster risks
is taking on new significance and urgency for all
global players. Investments in disaster risk management are increasingly being seen less as a cost and
more of an opportunity to strengthen resilience,
competitiveness and sustainability.
Larger businesses are investing to secure and
strengthen their capacities and strategies for risk
management. Institutional investors, with a fiduciary responsibility to their shareholders to ensure
prudence and sustainability, are now exploring
regulatory and voluntary actions to increase the
visibility of all risks, including those associated

with disasters and climate change.
More important, if business investment becomes
more risk-sensitive, governments will be encouraged to invest more heavily in disaster risk reduction. Effective disaster risk management will become a basic requirement for competitive countries
and cities that are successful in attracting business
investment.
A growing convergence of public and private initiatives to model and estimate disaster risks is beginning to underpin these efforts. Disaster risk management platforms and applications are now being
developed to allow businesses to incorporate these
data into their investment decisions. Accurate risk
data, in turn, facilitate the development of insurance markets, with appropriate pricing that encourages risk-sensitive investment.
But above all, businesses now begin to perceive investments in disaster risk management as a compelling proposition to create shared value. Investments in climate change mitigation, sustainable
water management and green cities directly address underlying risk drivers and at the same time
become increasingly important in value creation for
businesses of all types.

ed in 2015,iii as well as for future international negotiations around the challenge of climate change, if
the world is to achieve a socially inclusive, low-carbon and resilient economy laid out by the Secretary-General of the United Nations (United Nations
Secretary-General, 2012).
A new and advanced GAR13
The previous two editions of the Global Assessment
Report were predominantly written for an audience
of policy- and decision-makers in government departments. GAR09 laid out key recommendations
for governments as well as civil society actors engaged in disaster risk management; GAR11 sought
to reach beyond this traditional audience and targeted its analysis and findings particularly at finance
and planning ministries of national governments.
In expanding its analysis to include and focus on the
role of private investment, GAR13 aims at business
leaders and private investors, on the one hand, and
at local and national regulators, on the other hand.
This report seeks to engage businesses in a dialogue
on disaster risk management that goes beyond the
current emphasis on response and preparedness
and instead identifies opportunities for the creation
of shared value for business and society.

Businesses are finding huge opportunities in disaster proofing new and existing infrastructure, buildings and supply chains, which are also critical to risk
reduction and global sustainability. Investing to reduce the vulnerability and strengthen the resilience
of smaller businesses that are suppliers and partners of larger businesses not only strengthens the
latter’s business sustainability but also generates
shared value in securing local employment, increased
productivity, tax revenue and welfare.

As with previous Global Assessment Reports on Disaster Risk Reduction, GAR13 has been developed
on the basis of original research commissioned to
and contributed by a wide range of partners, including academic, scientific and technical organisations, governments and regional organisations, international and non-governmental bodies and most
importantly by the private sector on a global scale.
This report offers businesses as well as investors for
the first time a review of practices that can reduce
their risk of disaster loss.

Disaster risk reduction, therefore, is a compelling
shared value proposition for business. This component needs to be recognised in the formulation of
the revised international frameworks for development and disaster risk reduction that will be adopt-

Key features of GAR13 include:
A global assessment of economic disaster risk
A completely new probabilistic multi-hazard GAR
global risk model is being developed in collaboration with scientific and technical partners to replace
xvii

the earlier model used in GAR09 and GAR11. This
major modelling initiative will provide a unique vision of global disaster risk, generating information
and metrics for risk-sensitive investment planning
for governments and business, as well as for analysts and forecasters. An overview of the methodology is provided in Annex 1 of the online version of
GAR13.

from Asia, Europe and North America to understand
current approaches to disaster risk management,
challenges and opportunities. Based on an innovative risk management framework, these workshops
provide lessons learned and unique insights into
how large global businesses assess disaster risks
and how this information is used to inform risk management.

GAR13 also explores the resilience of national economies to these risks through a number of different
models, indexes and simulations, including the development of hybrid loss exceedance curves, building on the pioneering work in GAR11.

A survey of about 1,200 businesses in six disasterprone cities in the Americas (Bogota, Kingston, Miami, San Jose, Santiago and Vancouver) provides
valuable information on another perspective, in
particular, on the capacities of small and mediumsized businesses to manage disaster risks. This survey also examines the enabling environment for private sector involvement in disaster risk reduction.

A more complete estimation of disaster losses
The number of countries developing national disaster loss databases continues to grow. GAR13 features detailed national disaster loss data from a total of 56 countries, including new data from Djibouti,
Ethiopia, Guyana, Honduras, Jamaica, Kenya, Lebanon, Laos, Mali, Nicaragua, Timor Leste, Uganda,
Uruguay and a regional database for the Pacific Island nations.
A new approach to modelling direct economic losses from these data permits most likely the most
complete estimation to date of the real cost of disasters. This approach combines internationally reported economic losses from intensive disasters, as
recorded in the EM DAT database, with modelled
economic losses in the housing, infrastructure and
agriculture sectors from extensive disasters captured in national disaster databases. The detailed
methodology and summary of results are available
in Annex 2 of the online version of GAR13.
Understanding how businesses manage disaster risk
A centrepiece of GAR13 is an in-depth analysis of
how businesses are currently managing their disaster risks.
In partnership with a major consultancy company,
workshops were held with 14 global corporations
xviii

Preface

Reviewing progress in disaster risk reduction
At the time of writing, 131 countries are reviewing
their progress against the HFA for 2012–2013, and 94
countries have submitted reports that provide
unique insights into the implementation of the HFA.
Governments have reviewed their progress against
each of the priority areas of the HFA, and provided
supporting evidence on challenges in critical areas
such as public investment and risk assessment.
GAR13 highlights these developments, and a fuller
analysis of all national reports is presented in Annex
3 of the online version.
In addition, governments in eight countries in Asia
and Latin America have provided detailed case
studies of their investments in disaster risk reduction and how these are measured. As new investments flood into emerging economies, results reported in these case studies provide useful context.
In partnership with a major global social research
organisation, 30 senior officials in national finance
and planning ministries, regional and international
organisations were interviewed, providing additional insight into how policy- and decision-makers view
the risk landscape.

A focus on the urban development, tourism
and agribusiness sectors
GAR13 also commissioned research to examine the
challenges and opportunities to risk-sensitive business investment in three sectors: urban development; tourism; and agribusiness. These sectors are
not only some of the most dynamic in the world
economy, but also play a key role in the configuration of disaster risks. In each sector, GAR13 examines the interactions between business and the
public sector and the incentives and constraints for
disaster risk reduction.
Finance, insurance and public regulation
Business investment decisions in these and other
sectors are mediated by the availability of finance,
insurance pricing as well as public sector regulation
and incentives.
In partnership with the insurance industry, and
through a set of case studies, GAR13 examines the
challenges faced in the development of insurance
markets that contribute towards risk-sensitive business investment. It also looks at the role of capital
markets and financial institutions in providing incentives or disincentives for risk-sensitive investment.
Public regulation has traditionally been privileged
as a means to avoid the externalisation of risks and
costs by business investments to the public sector
and community. But GAR13 also examines how the
incentives provided by countries and cities to attract foreign direct investment (FDI) may actually
encourage investment in hazard-prone areas. Further, it seeks to identify examples where it has been
recognised that the costs of the resulting shared
risks are becoming untenable for both business
competitiveness and the sustainability of societies.
Nascent business practices in disaster risk
management
GAR13 also identifies and describes nascent business practices that are starting to positively transform the landscape of disaster risk management.

These practices include efforts to strengthen corporate risk management strategies; new approaches to supply chain resilience; initiatives to
increase the accessibility and usability of risk information; investors’ growing appetite for risk disclosure and transparency; and new opportunities for
creating shared value by investing in disaster risk
management in partnership with the public sector.
How to use this report
GAR13 has been structured around a set of contributed and commissioned Background Papers, as
well as risk and disaster data. More in-depth research and case studies than ever before have been
developed for this edition of the GAR, including
studies submitted in response to a Call for Papers
issued to relevant academic institutions and networks in early 2012. GAR13 is available in a number
of different formats.
•	 The Augmented Reality print GAR13 contains enhanced content that provides access to additional digital information, such as dynamic maps,
videos, photos and case studies, for users with
smartphones and tablets.
•	 The Pocket GAR provides the main evidence and
messages of the report in a short and easy-touse format.
•	 GAR13 is also a feature on Tangible Earthiv – the
world’s first interactive digital globe that allows
users to view and understand the condition of our
planet. Global risk and disaster data that underpin the report, as well as case studies and indepth analysis of particular disaster events, are
presented in a format that offers readers a unique
way to visualise disaster risk and its reduction.
•	 Tablet computer and smartphone users can also
enjoy the GAR for Tangible Earth (GfT) free application. GfT, or “gift”, is a fully interactive standalone application, which features a 3D globe interface that contains decades of dynamic earth
science data sets, including disaster events from
xix

all GARs. These data sets are illustrated with interactive risk scenarios, maps, and photos and
are searchable by time (including real-time),
place, risk driver, hazard, disaster event, and
more.
•	 Finally, GAR13 is also available as an interactive
web version, including all Annexes and Background Papers with much of the functionality
available in all the above products.
Notes
i	 The World Conference on Disaster Reduction, held from 18–22
January 2005, in Kobe, Hyogo Prefecture, Japan, adopted the Hyogo
Framework for Action 2005–2015: Building the Resilience of Nations
and Communities to Disasters.
ii	 In OECD countries, the share of private sector investment in total
fixed capital formation was 85 percent in 2010 (OECD, 2013). In low
and middle-income countries, the share of private sector investment is lower (almost 70 percent in low and lower middle-income
countries and about 64 percent in upper middle-income countries
in 2009), but has increased steadily, significantly contributing to total GFCF growth. Especially the share in lower middle-income economies increased by almost 10 percent since 1996 (based on World
Development Indicators: http://data.worldbank.org/data-catalog/
world-development-indicators).
iii	 2015 is the year in which three major international development
processes will be reviewed and efforts towards sustainable development renewed in the form of the reviewed Millennium Development
Goals, the follow-up to Rio+20 in the form of Sustainable Development Goals, and the successor agreement to the Hyogo Framework
for Action. To which degree these processes will converge or remain
distinct has to be seen.
iv	 Tangible Earth was first conceived by Shinichi Takemura in 2001.
For more information, see: http://www.tangible-earth.com/en.

xx

Preface

Contents
Foreword

iii

GAR at a Glance

iv

Preface

Chapter 1	

xiii

Introduction: Risky Business

Part I	 The Globalised Landscape of Disaster Risk

x

023

037

Chapter 2	

The Hidden Risks of Economic Globalisation				041

Chapter 3	

Intensive Riskscapes

051

Chapter 4	

Invisible Risks			

067

Chapter 5	

The Resilience Challenge

077

Chapter 6	

Natural Capital Risk

089

Chapter 7	

Small Islands, Big Opportunities

105

Part II	 Private Investment and Disaster Risk

117

Chapter 8

	 Urbanising Risk

121

Chapter 9

	 Hazardous Leisure

141

Chapter 10 	 No Free Lunch: Agribusiness and Risks to Food Security

Part III	 Business Strategies and Risk Governance

151

177

Chapter 11 	 From Managing Disasters to Managing Risks		

181

Chapter 12 	 Risk Blind Investment

191

Chapter 13 	 Securing Investment: Insurance Revisited

199

Chapter 14 	 Risk Governance: In Search of the Missing Paradigm

209

Chapter 15 	 Anticipating Risk

223

Chapter 16 	

Conclusion: From Shared Risk to Shared Value

Glossary
Acknowledgements
References
Index

235

ccxlviii
ccl
cclviii
cclxxx

xi

Introduction: Risky Business

Chapter 1

Disasters can seriously undermine business competitiveness and longer-term economic sustainability. In the last two years, many businesses experienced direct losses or impacts in the supply
chain affecting their profitability. If critical infrastructure such as transport networks and power supply are affected, businesses suffer. But business is affected not only as a consequence of direct and
indirect losses but also owing to wider impacts and macroeconomic effects.
Market share may be lost as clients transfer their business to competitors; skilled workers may
move or find other jobs; and relationships with suppliers and retailers can be severed. Consequently,
business image and reputation may be permanently damaged, affecting longer-term sustainability.
Critically, global trade, financial markets and supply chains have become increasingly interconnected. When local disasters occur in globally integrated economies, the impacts ripple through regional and global supply chains causing indirect losses to businesses on the other side of the globe.

1.1

Like pouring water into a
bamboo basket

The 1990s were what they call a “lost decade”
for the Japanese economy as a whole, and the
Port of Kobe was already losing its comparative
advantage. However, it was the 1995 Great Hanshin-Awaji Earthquake that drastically accelerated its decline.
During the 1960s and 1970s, the Port of Kobe, Japan, was the principal transport hub between
Asian manufacturers and markets in North America. In the 1980s, however, its market share began

to fall owing to high costs, inflexible operations
and powerful labour unions (Containerisation International, 1998a).
Prior to the 1995 earthquake, Kobe was the world’s
sixth-busiest port. After the quake, it failed to recover that prominence (see Box 1.1 below). Following
two years of rebuilding, in March 1997, Kobe had
fallen to 17th place worldwide (Chang, 2000b); by
2000, it fell further to 23rd place; and by end-2010, it
ranked 47th (Nagamatsu, 2007). During the port’s
reconstruction period, a big boost in trans-shipping business was given to other Asian ports,
which provided lower costs, a large productive

Box 1.1 The Great Hanshin-Awaji Earthquake

At 5:46 am on 17 January 1995, a 7.3 Mw earthquake in the southern part of Japan’s Hyogo Prefecture killed
6,437 people (Government of Japan, 2011). Direct damage was estimated at US$100 billion (Chang, 2000a;
Nagamatsu, 2007) and damage to Kobe’s port accounted for 10 percent of that total, affecting all 35 container
shipping berths; 177 out of 186 non-container shipping berths; and all gantry cranes, warehouses, bridges and
utility lines (Chang, 2000a).
When the port shut down, devastating impacts rippled outward—the port had provided 39 percent of Kobe’s
income and employed 17 percent of its population (City Government of Kobe, 2010). Disruption of port services
cost US$300 million per month—the equivalent of income loss for 40,000 employees in port-related businesses,
manufacturing, wholesale and retail trade (Chang, 2000a). Businesses absorbed higher transportation costs,
and only from March to December 1995, these secondary costs amounted to approximately US$4 billion.
(Source: UNISDR)

23

hinterland and growing consumer markets (Containerisation International, 1998a). Busan, Republic of Korea’s second largest city, in particular,
stood to gain substantially (OECD, 2009).

Great East Japan Earthquake

1.2

			
Dimensions of disaster

Booming business never returned to the port despite efforts to improve competitiveness—efforts
included reducing harbour dues, wharfage and land
rental fees, and operating around the clock. It was
like “pouring water into a bamboo basket” said
Rinnosuke Kondoh, former deputy secretary general of the Tokyo-based International Association of
Ports and Harbours (Containerisation International,
2003). Even without the earthquake, the port would
have most likely gradually lost market share; but
there is no doubt that its competitiveness was fatally weakened by the quake.

The increasing frequency and scale of disasters
is demonstrated by how businesses today suffer
direct and indirect losses and a series of wider
impacts and macroeconomic effects.

An investment of US$163 billion in rebuilding
Kobe meant that its damaged infrastructure was
quickly reconstructed. But this did not lead to
sustainable economic recovery. Until 1995, Hyogo Prefecture was growing roughly in line with Japan as a whole. Except during the post-earthquake stimulus, when reconstruction spending
gave a temporary boost, its economy then slid
into a long decline (Hayashi, 2011).

Businesses suffer direct losses when they have invested in locating factories, offices, plant, warehouses and other facilities in locations exposed to
hazards such as floods, cyclones, earthquakes or
tsunamis and without adequate investments to reduce risks.

Businesses are increasingly concerned with disaster-related direct losses to their assets or indirect
losses in their supply chain causing a fall in output
and revenue, thereby affecting profitability. But
business is affected not only as a consequence of
these losses but also owing to wider impacts and
macroeconomic effectsi (Figure 1.1).

But there are critical differences regarding how
these losses affect business, depending on the kind

Figure 1.1 The different dimensions of disaster losses, impacts and effects on businessii

(Source: UNISDR, adapted from PwC)

24

Chapter 1

of disaster and size of business. Large global businesses are rarely at risk from smaller extensive disasters, but may be severely affected by major intensive events such as the 2011 Great East Japan
Earthquake or the 2011 Chao Phraya river floods in
Thailand. Such intensive disasters often cause massive direct capital losses to factories, plant and
stock as well as to critical infrastructure such as
ports, airports, power stations and urban mass
transit systems.
For example, on 11 March 2011, the Great East Japan Earthquake and tsunami generated direct losses of about US$206 billion,iii representing approximately 20 percent of average annual gross fixed
capital formation from 2008 to 2012.iv Similarly, direct losses from the Chao Phraya river floods were
approximately US$45.7 billion, which equals more
than 60 percent of Thailand’s average annual gross
fixed capital formation from 2006 to 2010.v Because
so many businesses suffered simultaneously, the respective national economies were severely impacted. For example, at the beginning of 2011, Japan’s
projected annual GDP growth was 1.5 percent. Following the Great East Japan Earthquake, GDP fell by
3.1 percent in the first quarter of 2011 and by 2.1 percent in the second quarter of 2011 (Funabashi and

Takenaka, 2012). In Thailand, owing to damage to
industrial estatesvi by the Chao Phraya river floods,
GDP fell by 9.0 percent in the fourth quarter of 2011
compared with the same quarter in 2010.
Following intensive disasters large global businesses may be less hard-hit owing to diversified facilities
and operations spread over many countries and regions and to insurance coverage; often only a small
percentage of such companies’ global capital stock
is affected at any given time.
Micro and small and medium enterprises (SMEs)vii
play an important role in low, middle and high-income economies. They account for one-third of
low-income countries’ employment, and estimates
of their contribution to total employment in high-income countries range from more than 50 percent
(IFC, 2012) to 65 percent in OECD countries (UNDP,
2004) and 70 percent globally (ILO, 2012). In addition, they contribute between 51 percent and 55
percent of GDP in high-income countries (UNCTAD,
2005; Dalberg, 2011) and play a fundamental role in
community dynamics (UNDP, 2013).
The informal business sector also plays a key role
in employment in many economies. Smallholder

Figure 1.2 Share of wage and non-wage employment across the globe

(Source: World Bank, 2012a)

25

farmers and informal small and micro-enterprises
occupy the bulk of the labour force in many parts
of Asia and Africa (Figure 1.2).

1.3
_

When business loses its
lifelines: indirect losses and
infrastructure damage

Compared with global businesses, informal sector
producers and SMEs are far less resilient, particularly in low and middle-income countries. Smaller
businesses are at risk to recurrent localised extensive disasters, such as landslides, fires, floods and
storms. More likely to be located in hazardous areas, with evolving extensive risk, these businesses
are less likely to have invested in protective risk-reducing schemes.

Infrastructure—such as road, power and water
networks, and health and primary education facilities—is a basic requirement of a competitive
economy. Businesses rely on functioning utilities and communications networks, which are
provided by a range of public and private actors.
It is therefore vital for competitiveness and sustainability of an enterprise to ensure that critical
infrastructure is resilient to shocks.

A single disaster may wipe out all or a large part of
businesses’ capital; and only a small percentage of
these smaller businesses have insurance coverage.
In Pakistan, for example, uninsured SMEs took longer to recover from the major floods in 2010 than
larger businesses; a good majority of SMEs did not
survive (Asgary et al., 2012).

When infrastructure fails, businesses experience indirect losses, as production, distribution and supply
chains are interrupted; consequently, production,
output and throughput are reduced. Even when
businesses do not experience direct losses, they depend on publicly managed or regulated roads and
transportation lines, energy and water networks as
well as on a workforce that in turn depends on housing, education and health facilities.

These losses may result in poverty outcomes. In
normal times, asset holdings in small businesses—
ranging, for example, from fishing boats, carpentry
and welding equipment and tools to farm implements—increase the income generating potential of
poor households, leading to higher welfare and less
poverty. Asset holdings also offer a crucial means
to buffer disaster losses (UNISDR, 2009). In the absence of formal and informal credit and insurance
markets or safety nets and social security, however,
the loss of asset holdings can reduce consumption
in the short term and lead to an observable deterioration in health, nutritional and educational status
and other welfare problems in the longer term. Disasters for business thus translate into disasters for
households and communities.

In New York and New Jersey, for example, many
businesses that did not suffer direct losses caused
by Super-storm Sandy (Box 1.2) were affected by
transport and power network failures, airport closures and difficulties faced by employees whose
homes were damaged or unable to get to work.
Intensive disasters such as Super-storm Sandy or
the 2011 East Japan Earthquake can damage major
infrastructure facilities such as mass transit systems, power stations, ports and airports. However,
most damage to local infrastructure is associated
with extensive disasters. In Figure 1.4, disaster loss
data from 56 countries show that more than 90 percent of damage to roads, power and water supplies
and telecommunications is associated with extensive risk.
This example highlights the critical interdependence
between business and the public sector. Although
public investment may be no more than 15 percent

26

Chapter 1

Box 1.2 ‘Super-storm’ Sandy viii

Super-storm Sandy

In October 2012, sub-tropical storm Sandy triggered the evacuation of thousands from the East Coast of the
United States of America, leading to the shut-down of national and local transport systems and severely disrupted electricity and communication supplies, with power cuts affecting an estimated 8.5 million homes and
businesses (RMS, 2012). Of the refineries in the East Coast of the United States of America, 70 percent had to be
shut down for days; many New York City metro line subways were flooded; and about 15,000 flights were
grounded across the Northeast (Time, 2012). Equity trading on all markets was cancelled for two days—the first
two-day shutdown since 11 September 2001 (IHS Global Insight, 2012).
As Figure 1.3 shows, the event confirmed results from existing models that showed how New York would be at
risk of severe losses from storm surges and flooding.

Figure 1.3 Extent of flooding in New York City due to Super-storm Sandy (top) compared with a hazard map showing areas
that could be expected to be flooded due to storm surges (bottom)

(Source: Swiss Re Hurricane Storm Surge Model)

Soon after the storm passed, it was clear that indirect losses to business activity caused by disruption to public
transport and energy supplies were likely to be greater than direct losses (EqCat, 2012; IHS Global Insight,
2012). The disaster revealed the dependency of businesses on publicly managed or regulated infrastructure.

(Source: UNISDR)

27

Figure 1.4 Proportion of infrastructure damaged in extensive disasters in 56 countries and 2 Indian states, between 1970 and 2011

(Source: UNISDR, based on National Disaster datasets for 56 countries and 2 states)

Box 1.3 La Niña in Colombia

La Niña in Colombia

Between 2010 and 2012, a very strong, though not exceptional, La Niña affected Colombia. Of the country’s
1,041 municipalities, 93 percent were affected, mainly by flooding (OSSO, 2012) over a 14-month period.
Direct economic loss was estimated at about US$6 billion, representing nearly 6 percent of the country’s gross
capital formation (CEPAL, 2012). By the end of 2011, insured losses had exceeded US$600 million, including
US$76 million to repair a flooded thermoelectric power plant (Marsh, 2012). Although only a small proportion of
total losses were insured, the disaster resulted in an increase in deductibles for insurance of flood-related damage and loss. SMEs were particularly affected given that many were uninsured and did not have access to resources required for business recovery. Similarly, 93–95 percent of estimated household losses were uninsured
(Fasecolda, 2011).
The housing and infrastructure sectors (transport and energy) each accounted for 38 percent of total direct
losses. In particular, 14 percent of the national road network and 3 percent of its bridges were damaged. This
represented US$1.7 billion in repairs in 2011 alone (Government of Colombia, 2011).

(Source: UNISDR)

28

Chapter 1

Figure 1.5 Hazard-related business disruptions: of major concern and that actually had been experienced during the last five years (in percent)

(Source: Sarmiento and Hoberman, 2012)

of total capital formation in many countries, how
that investment is made, managed and regulated is
fundamental to business resilience, competitiveness and sustainability. If public infrastructure is
vulnerable, business is also at risk.

business disruptions – both of major concern and
that had actually been experienced during the last
five years – were related to disruptions in power,
telecommunications and water utilities (Sarmiento
and Hoberman, 2012).

In Costa Rica, for example, direct disaster losses
totalled US$1.8 billion between 1988 and 2009. Of
these, 62 percent were in public infrastructure, of
which more than half was located in the businesscritical transport sector (Government of Costa
Rica, 2010).

Although larger businesses normally have the cash
flow and reserves to absorb indirect losses, many
smaller businesses simply never recover. Smaller
businesses have a reduced, more localised customer base—often affected during disasters (UNDP,
2013; Battisti and Deakins, 2012). When lack of local
customers reduces demand and thus cash flow,
smaller businesses’ financial resources for recovery
are limited (Villarroel, 2012; Vitez, 2013).

In Colombia, road networks represent a major challenge to business competitiveness. As Box 1.3
shows, this competitiveness was eroded during the
2010–2011 El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO)
episodes,ix when a large number of extensive disasters caused major damage.
The importance of public infrastructure for business
is confirmed in a survey carried out for this report in
six disaster-prone cities of the Americas.x As Figure
1.5 shows, three of the top four hazard-related

29

1.4

Globally integrated disasters:
supply chain interruption

Global trade, financial markets and supply
chains have become increasingly interconnected. When disasters occur in globally integrated
economies, the impacts ripple through regional
and global supply chains causing indirect losses to businesses on the other side of the globe.
As supply chains become globalised, so does the
vulnerability of businesses to supply chain disruptions, for example, when disasters affect critical production nodes or distribution links. The interruption of one critical node or link produces regional
and global ripples throughout the supply chain.

Box 1.4 From Japan to Thailand and back again

Global supply chains increasingly supply disaster
risks as well as parts and services. For example, a
survey of businesses in 62 countries found that 85
percent of organisations had experienced at least
one supply chain interruption in 2011. Of these, 51
percent were caused by weather-related hazards
and another 20 percent by earthquakes in Japan
and New Zealand (BCI, 2011).
The impacts of the Eyjafjallajökull volcanic ash cloud
in Iceland in April 2010 demonstrated how an eruption could affect business in a globalised world (Munich Re, 2010). For up to six days, air traffic in most
European countries was shut down; and airlines lost
US$1.7 billion in revenues.xi At its peak, the crisis impacted 29 percent of global aviation and affected

3.11 Tsunami

Following the 2011 earthquake and tsunami, automobile and electrical component production in Japan declined by 48 percent and 8 percent, respectively. But automobile production also fell by 20 percent in Thailand,
18 percent in the Philippines and 6 percent in Indonesia. Electrical component production fell by 18 percent in
the Philippines and 8 percent in Malaysia (Ye and Abe, 2012).
The Renesas Electronics Corporation, the world’s largest custom manufacturer of microchips for the automobile industry, and which serves Japanese automobile manufacturers, suffered estimated losses of US$615 million. Toyota lost US$1.2 billion in product revenue owing to parts shortages that caused 150,000 fewer Toyota
automobiles to be manufactured in the United States of America; production stoppages at five plants in the
United Kingdom; and reductions in production of 70 percent in India and 50 percent in China (Asano, 2012).
Following Tropical Storm Nock-Ten and heavy monsoon rains, the Chao Phraya River flooded in Thailand, inundating 15 provinces of the country (Haraguchi and Lall, 2012). From October to December 2011, more than 1,000
factories of 804 companies were flooded for up to two months. Of these companies, 451 were Japanese (Ibid.).
Although the factories of Nissan and Toyota were not flooded, they had to suspend car production owing to the
difficulty in obtaining parts from affected suppliers. In November 2011, automobile production fell by 84 percent compared with the same month in 2010. Given that Thailand plays a key role in global supply chains in the
electronics and automobile industries, Honda factories in Malaysia, North America and Japan had to reduce or
halt production. Total loss of operating profit to Toyota and Honda was estimated at US$1.25 billion and US$1.4
billion, respectively. As in the case of the Japan earthquake, a significant proportion of these losses were because of one affected supplier that produced critical electronic components (Haraguchi and Lall, 2012).
At the time, Thailand also produced 43 percent of the world’s hard disk drives (Okazumi et al., 2012). Leading
producers such as Seagate, Western Digital, Toshiba and Hitachi were all located in the flooded area. During
the floods, hard disk drive production fell by 77 percent, causing the price of some hard disk drives to triple between November 2011 and February 2012 (Ye and Abe, 2012).
Given the large number of Japanese companies in Thailand, Japan’s manufacturing production index fell by 2.4
percent between October 2011 and January 2012, led by a reduction in electrical component production, which
fell by 3.7 percent (Ibid.).

(Source: UNISDR)

30

Chapter 1

1.2 million passengers a day.xii Businesses also lost
billions in uninsured losses (Munich Re, 2010). Insurance payments are only made if business interruption is preceded by physical damage to the insured
property itself or – with extended coverage – a supplier of parts or utility company. In this case, aircraft
were not damaged; they were simply grounded.
In Japan and Thailand, businesses in areas affected
by the 2011 disasters suffered direct loss to property, plant, equipment and stock or were indirectly impacted by power shortages or by damage to roads,
railways and ports. As Box 1.4 shows, these losses
and impacts had systemic regional and global implications.
Many large global businesses rely on SMEs as
partners and suppliers, which means that supply
chain risk is directly related to the capacity of
SMEs to manage their disaster risks. Given that, as

highlighted above, the most frequent disaster risks
faced by SMEs are related to utilities such as power, water and telecommunications; interdependence also exists between disaster risk management in the public sector and supply chain risk.

Thailand floods

1.5

When business leaves, it may
never return

As the decline of the Port of Kobe highlighted,
some businesses never recover from disaster.
The wider impacts of disaster can linger for
years, undermining longer-term competitiveness and sustainability.
As investors have learned, market share may be lost
after disasters occur. Business image and reputa-

Box 1.5 Impacts of disasters on the nuclear industry

Less than an hour after the 11 March 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake hit, tsunami waves reached the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant, exceeding the design parameters of the plant by approximately 5 metres
and knocking out the emergency power and seawater cooling pumps. In the next days, three reactors suffered
hydrogen explosions and fuel meltdowns causing a major release of radioactivity. Approximately 150,000 residents were evacuated, a restricted area of 20 kilometres around the plant was enforced, restrictions were
placed on food produced in the region and all nuclear reactors in the country were shut down, immediately reducing national electricity production by approximately 30 percent (National Diet of Japan, 2012).
Before the disaster, the global nuclear industry was enjoying something of a renaissance, with plans for an expansion of generation capacity, averaging about 1 percent per year in OECD countries and 6 percent in nonOECD countries (Joskow and Parsons, 2012). These plans were driven by a number of considerations, including
meeting targets for reductions in CO2 emissions by 2020 and 2050, rising fossil fuel prices, technological improvements and a more favourable political environment. China, for example, planned to increase electricity
generated by nuclear power from 1 percent to 6 percent by 2020, and Japan planned to increase the contribution of nuclear power from 30 percent to 50 percent (Ibid.).
The Fukushima disaster questioned the safety of the nuclear power industry. Before the disaster, Germany,
Switzerland and Japan together accounted for approximately 20 percent of global nuclear power production
(Joskow and Parsons, 2012). In September 2012, following the Official Report of the Fukushima Nuclear Accident Independent Investigation Committee (National Diet of Japan, 2012), Japan announced that it would
phase out nuclear power by 2040, although subsequently the new administration announced they would not
follow this commitment, after considering energy and economic issues. Four days after the earthquake, on 15
March 2011, Germany permanently shut down the 8 oldest of its 17 nuclear units and in June 2011, Parliament
passed a law to phase out the remaining plants by 2022 (Joskow and Parsons, 2012). The Swiss Federal Council
also recommended that existing reactors be closed at the end of their licenses and not replaced; the final reactor would close in 2034 (Ibid.).

(Source: UNISDR)

31

Box 1.6 Disaster impact on employment and SMEs

Employment in the Tohoku region of Japan was affected by both the global financial crisis beginning in 2008 as
well as by the Great East Japan Earthquake in 2011. Though employment recovered quickly after both shocks,
following the earthquake, there was a mismatch between labour demand and supply. For example, in the construction sector, there were 10 jobs available for every applicant, but in the locally important food-processing
sector, there were 2 applicants for every job (Figure 1.6). Employment for women recovered slower than for
men, partly because of the slow recovery of the female-dominated food processing sector, whereas new employment opportunities in the construction sector were mainly for men.

Figure 1.6 Ratio of job openings per application in construction and food processing, in Miyagi prefecture and Japan
overall after the Great East Japan Earthquake

(Source: UNISDR, based on Miyagi Labor Bureau)xv

The disaster affected SMEs particularly hard. One-third of SMEs had still not restarted business 10 months after
the disaster in January 2012 (Government of Japan, 2012a). SMEs processing marine products were particularly affected by the tsunami. By January 2012, 50 percent had not resumed business and 30 percent had decreased their workforce (Ibid.).
After reconstruction is completed, labour demand in the construction sector in Tohuku will decrease. A Japanese think-tank estimates that unless new employment opportunities are created, 14,000 employees will have
to change jobs and 82,000 will be forced to migrate to other regions by 2017 (Nomura Research Institute, 2011).
Although reconstruction temporarily supports employment, efforts will be needed to boost and strengthen
promising new industries as well as to invest in disaster risk reduction.
In the area affected by the Canterbury Earthquakes in New Zealand in 2010 and 2011, 97.2 percent of all enterprises were SMEs as of February 2011.xvi In New Zealand, 75 percent of all enterprises in all sectors are SMEs,
employing 30 percent of the working population and producing an estimated 40 percent of total value-added
output. Although it is not known how many SMEs went out of business, in April 2012, 37 percent out of 128 surveyed SMEs in Christchurch reported reduced revenues. In another survey, 51 percent of businesses reported
reduced revenue.
Employment declined significantly, on the one hand, in the women-dominated retail trade, accommodation
and food services sectors—from 54,100 in June 2010 to 41,600 in June 2012 (Parker and Steenkamp, 2012). Employment in the construction sector, on the other hand, boomed from 25,900 to 32,800 in the same period
(Ibid.). These phenomena show, as in Tohoku, Japan, that problems emerged with job mismatch creating new
challenges for women in the labour market.
(Source: UNISDR)

32

Chapter 1

tion may also be permanently damaged affecting
longer-term sustainability. Insurance may become
more expensive and its availability constrained.
The 2011 Thailand floods, for example, caused a
number of insurance and reinsurance companies to
pull out of the Thai market altogether (AON Benfield, 2012a).
And these wider impacts may undermine entire industry sectors, as occurred with the global nuclear
industry following the 2011 East Japan Earthquake
and tsunami (Box 1.5).
The fate of businesses and cities and countries
where they are located are mutually dependent.
For example, productive and resilient businesses
boost the prosperity of cities and countries that are
attractive to investors, competitive and more likely
to sustain growth. Likewise, competitive and resilient cities and countries provide an environment for
productive and competitive businesses.
Disasters, however, can negatively affect the basic
requirements for competitiveness, including sound
infrastructure, macroeconomic stability and a
healthy and educated workforce (WEF, 2012). As
such, countries that are unable to manage their disaster risks are likely to be less competitive in the
medium and longer terms. For example, disaster
losses in Costa Rica from 2005 to 2009 were equivalent to 20 percent of its total public investment during that period. The resources spent on rehabilitating and reconstructing damaged infrastructure
could have been spent on new roads, schools and
health facilities and in building a more competitive
economy (Government of Costa Rica, 2010).

the electronics sector, temporarily relocated their
production to other Asian countries, and several
considered permanent relocation (Ye and Abe, 2012;
JCCB, 2012).
In Japan, a survey undertaken just two months after
the 2011 disaster shows that companies were concerned with increased production costs due to
power outage induced interruptions and fragile supply chains.xiv Almost 70 percent of companies surveyed considered the possibility of relocating parts
or all of their production and suppliers abroad
(Ibid.). Partly due to the disaster, the government
postponed important policy decisions; such as its
participation in the Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP)
Agreement and a proposed reduction in corporate
income tax, which would have improved competitiveness (Funabashi and Takenaka, 2012).
Disasters also have crucial consequences on employment. They directly affect the labour market for
businesses, particularly SMEs, as well as for household economies and the macroeconomic environment. Box 1.6 highlights how disasters affected the
labour market and SMEs following the 2011 Great
East Japan Earthquake and the Canterbury Earthquake in New Zealand.
These wider impacts of a disaster are difficult to
quantify but ultimately and over and above the direct and indirect losses suffered, may define disaster, both for business as well as for their employees
and the countries and cities competing to attract
business investment.

Following intensive disasters, countries may find it
more difficult to attract foreign direct investment
(FDI), as investors flow to geographic competitors.
Following the 2011 Chao Phraya river floods, several large companies relocated their plants either
to less hazard-exposed areas of Thailand or to other countries in the region.xiii More than 60 percent
of directly affected manufacturers, mainly from
33

1.6

				
Business as usual?

It’s no longer business as usual. Disaster losses
and impacts are presenting critical problems for
businesses of all sizes, ranging from major global corporations to SMEs to informal sector producers.
This chapter has highlighted how businesses not
only face massive direct losses from floods, storms
and earthquakes, but also depend on publicly managed and regulated infrastructure and services that
can be interrupted by disasters. In a globalised
economy, supply chains may be vulnerable to
events occurring on the other side of the globe. Disasters can also lead to longer-term declines in business competitiveness and sustainability.
For these reasons, disaster risk is becoming a growing concern to business. Businesses are now getting to know their risks and exploring ways in which
to reduce them. These nascent efforts are more often than not based on voluntary mechanisms within
businesses and among business partners.
All business investment decisions have the potential
to either increase or decrease disaster risk. The rest
of this report is concerned with how those decisions
are made and with the factors that mediate and
condition those decisions. The report also highlights how investing in disaster risk management
can be a compelling proposition in shared value, for
businesses themselves as well as for the cities and
countries competing to attract investment.
GAR13 comprises three main parts. Part I examines
the new landscape of intensive and extensive risk
(Chapter 2) and presents results from the new global risk model for earthquakes and tropical cyclones,
as well as new exposure data for tsunamis and a
proof of concept for floods (Chapter 3). In addition,
this part features an analysis of the scale of economic losses associated with extensive risk (Chapter 4)
and the implications for a country’s economic and
34

Chapter 1

financial resilience (Chapter 5); the risks to natural
capital posed by wild-land fires, land degradation
and agricultural drought (Chapter 6) and the special
case of Small Island Developing States (Chapter 7).
Part II explores how disaster risk has become endogenous to the contemporary globalised economic landscape through business investment decisions
that have usually externalised disaster risk. It analyses how investors have made business investment
decisions that increase risks in key sectors such as
urban development (Chapter 8), tourism (Chapter 9)
and agribusiness (Chapter 10).
Part III presents how both global corporations and
smaller businesses are managing disaster risk, including in global supply chains (Chapter 11) and
how their investment decisions are mediated by investment markets and the role of insurance (Chapters 12 and 13). It further analyses how governments as regulators and mediators of investment, in
a global economy, occupy changing roles and have
yet to fully embrace a prospective approach to disaster risk management (Chapters 14 and 15).
Chapter 16 concludes and brings together several
key findings of the report. It elaborates on how creating shared value can become a key feature of effective disaster risk management and – more important – how disaster risk management contributes
to creating shared value for business and society
essential for achieving economic stability, growth
and sustainable development in a globalised landscape beyond 2015.

Notes
i	 Macroeconomic effects are included to some extent in all of
these estimates but are a different way of representing them; they
should therefore not be added to the direct and indirect losses or
wider impacts.
ii	 This figure constitutes a simplification of the different categories that might partly overlap. Care must be taken when calculating total loss to avoid double counting. For example, the direct
structural losses to a plant may be assessed either through the
damage to the capital stock (e.g. production plant) or the equivalent loss of flows (i.e. future production).
iii	 Exchange rate of 1US$=JP¥81.84. The estimate was reported
in June 2011 by the Cabinet Office of the Japanese Government
(http://www.bousai.go.jp/oshirase/h23/110624-1kisya.pdf). It
estimates damages to buildings, lifeline facilities and infrastructures and excludes the impact of the Nuclear Power Plant accident.
iv	 Here and in the next case of Thailand, data of gross fixed capital formation of the World Bank’s World Development Indicators
were used: http://data.worldbank.org/indicator/NE.GDI.FTOT.
CD?page=1.
v	 Economic loss as estimated by the World Bank in December
2011 (http://www.worldbank.org/en/news/2011/12/13/worldbank-supports-thailands-post-floods-recovery-effort). This estimate includes not only loss to physical investment but also other
components such as loss to lost revenue by tourism and loss of
agricultural output.

x	 This survey, carried out by Florida International University (FIU),
York University and the Central American Institute for Business Management (INCAE), covered Vancouver, Canada; Miami, United States
of America; Kingston, Jamaica; San Jose, Costa Rica; Bogota, Colombia and Santiago, Chile.
xi	 http://www.iata.org/pressroom/pr/Pages/2010-04-21-01.aspx.
xii	 http://www.iata.org/pressroom/pr/Pages/2010-04-21-01.aspx.
xiii	 Western Digital and Nidec, two important global players in
the production of hard disk drive components, have relocated
some of their manufacturing to Malaysia, China and less hazard-prone regions in Thailand. For more information: http://e.
nikkei.com/e/fr/tnks/Nni20121006D06JF389.htm
and
http://
www.ft.com/cms/s/0/7d36186e-2937-11e1-8b1a-00144feabdc0.
html#axzz2DuUmiO4x (accessed 02/12/2012).
xiv	 Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, Government of Japan:
http://www.meti.go.jp/committee/summary/0003410/013_s01_00.
pdf
xv	 Miyagi Labor Bureau, “Balance of job openings and application,”
http://miyagi-roudoukyoku.jsite.mhlw.go.jp/jirei_toukei/kyujin_
kyushoku/toukei/anteisyobetsu_kyujinkyusyoku_balance.html.
xvi	 Data in this paragraph are taken from Hatton, Seville and Vargo
(2012), unless otherwise stated.

vi	 In the same quarter, the manufacturing sector declined by
-21.8 percent. Given that manufacturing represented 39 percent
of Thailand’s GDP in 2011, it was the disruption of the manufacturing sector that had such as large influence on the Thai economy.
vii	 Small and medium enterprises are independent companies
that have a smaller number of employees than a defined threshold. This threshold is different across countries. The OECD mentions the following thresholds: less than 250 employees in the European Union and fewer than 500 in the United States of America.
However, in many countries, the threshold may be significantly
lower, and small firms can be defined as having 10-50 employees,
while micro-enterprises can be defined as having 1-10 workers
(http://stats.oecd.org/glossary/detail.asp?ID=3123).
viii	 References used in this box: NOAA National Climatic Data Centre, 2012 www.ncdc.noaa.gov/news/summary-information-posttropical-cyclone-sandy; NOAA National Weather Service, 2012 www.
erh.noaa.gov/phi/storms/10292012.html; RMS, 2012 www.rms.com/
news/newsannouncements/Newspress.php?id=0.xml; Time, 2012
http://business.time.com/2012/10/31/hurricane-sandy-estimatedto-cost-60-billion; IHS Global Insight, 2012 http://www.ihs.com/products/Global-Insight/industry-economic-report.aspx?ID=1065972961;
EqeCat, 2012 www.eqecat.com/catwatch/post-landfall-loss-estimates-superstorm-sandy-released-2012-11-01/; Financial Times,
2012 http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/c8f6c208-24f4-11e2-86fb-00144feabdc0.html#axzz2CtH3QSxJ.
ix	 El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO) refers to the interaction
between the global atmosphere and the tropical Pacific Ocean.
It results in changes to weather patterns and ocean temperature
across the globe, including changes in rainfall and storm patterns,
and occurrence of floods and droughts. Within these changes, the
El Niño phenomenon is associated with unusually warm ocean
surface temperatures; La Niña is associated with particularly cold
oceanic temperatures. Both occur approximately twice in a seven-year period and last for typically 9–12 months and occasionally up to two years. For exact definitions and more information,
see: UNISDR terminology - preventionweb.net/english/professional/terminology/v.php?id=480 and WMO factsheets - http://
www.wmo.int/pages/mediacentre/factsheet/LaNinaQA.html.

35

Part I

The Globalised Landscape
of Disaster Risk

37

“One trillion dollars have been lost in the last decade due to disasters and one million people
killed”.i Such statements are familiar to investors
and business developers. But they only partially
reflect total disaster losses.
The full scale of disaster losses is still not fully understood. Reliable data exist on insured lossesii
and many major, intensive disasters are comprehensively assessed.iii Between 2001 and 2011,
global reinsurer Munich Re. reported about
US$1.68 trillion in losses (Munich Re., 2012), a calculation based on insured losses and estimates of
insurance market penetration. Over the same period, EMDATiv, the major public global disaster database, reported US$1.25 trillion in losses. But
neither provides a complete picture of global disaster losses, as none accounts for uninsured
losses associated with recurrent, smaller-scale,
extensive disasters, particularly in low and middle-income countries.

A growing number of national disaster databases
now provide access to detailed data on these
losses. When combined with assessments of direct losses in major disasters as recorded by EMDAT, these data provide a more complete picture
of the real dimension of direct disaster losses.
Figure I.1 shows what this picture might look like
in the 40 low and middle-income countries with
the largest losses recorded in national disaster
databases.
Direct economic losses in housing, local infrastructure and agriculture were modelled for all
smaller disasters documented by national disaster databases but not captured by EMDAT. Losses
documented in EMDAT for larger disasters include
estimates of damage to large capital intensive infrastructure that are generally not captured in national disaster databases. The resulting combined dataset provides the most complete
estimate of direct disaster losses possible with

Figure I.1 Direct economic losses in 40 countries as estimated from national and global loss databases, 1981–2011 (in million US$)v

(Source: UNISDR, based on DesInventar and EM-DAT combined datasets)

38

Part I

Figure I.2 Loss trends in 40 countries as estimated from national and global loss databases, 1981–2011 (in billion US$)vii

(Source: UNISDR, based on DesInventar and EM-DAT combined datasets)

existing publicly available data. The detailed
methodology used to model and estimate economic losses is described in Annex 2.
Between 1981 and 2011, total direct losses in
these countries were approximately US$305 billion, of which internationally reported events represent about 67 percent. The implication is that
the headline-grabbing figures recorded in global
datasets over the last decade may be quite conservative. Once the losses associated with nationally reported smaller disasters are included,
those figures are likely to be at least 50 percent
higher. At the same time, these figures refer only
to direct losses and thus exclude the cost of indirect losses and wider effects of disaster.
As Figure I.2 shows, disaster losses in the same
set of countries have been trending upward over
this period.

The chapters that follow in Part I explore how investment decisions and capital flows are internalising disaster risk in different kinds of capital
stock, thereby increasing the overall stock of risk.
Chapters 2 and 3 examine the new landscape of
intensive and extensive risk and present results
from the new global risk model for earthquakes
and tropical cyclones, as well as new exposure
data for tsunamis and regional examples for
floods and landslides.
Chapter 4 features an analysis of the scale of economic losses associated with extensive risk, and
Chapter 5, the implications for a country’s economic and financial resilience.
The risks to natural capital posed by wild-land
fires, land degradation and agricultural drought
are presented in Chapter 6, and the special case
of Small Island Developing States in Chapter 7.

39

Notes
i	 See for example: http://www.undp.org/content/undp/en/
home/presscenter/events/2012/october/international_day_disaster_reduction.
ii	 Swiss Re. publishes regular updates on insured losses globally
via its SIGMA statistics and publications (e.g. Swiss Re 2012). MunichRe., via its NatCatService platform and its Touch – Natural Hazards service portal, provides analyses, statistics and services on
all aspects of natural hazards: http://www.munichre.com/en/reinsurance/business/non-life/georisks/natcatservice/default.aspx.
iii	 Governments, with the support of the UN, the World Bank or
regional development banks, conduct economic assessments of
intensive disasters using variations of the ECLAC methodology
(ECLAC, 2003).
iv	 EMDAT: The OFDA/CRED International Disaster Database:
www.emdat.net. Université catholique de Louvain – Brussels –
Belgium. EMDAT is a global database that registers reports of disasters above its threshold of 10 deaths, 100 affected people, or a
call for international assistance.
v	 Only the 40 countries with the highest losses were selected
for this graph to enable visualisation at common scales. See Annex 2 for information on progress in the development of national
disaster loss databases, economic loss estimation and merging of
global and national datasets.
vi	 See www.munichre.com/touch/naturalhazards and www.emdat.be.
vii	 Only the 40 countries with the highest losses were selected
for this graph to enable visualisation at common scales. See Annex 2 for information on progress in the development of national
disaster loss databases, economic loss estimation and merging of
global and national datasets.

40

Chapter 2

The Hidden Risks of
Economic Globalisation

41

Disaster risk has been etched into the contemporary economic landscape largely through investment
decisions. In most countries, 70 percent to 85 percent of total investment is made by the private
sector – small and large companies, investors and households. How these investments are made, directly determines levels of disaster risk. They shape the direction of capital flows and the level of
disaster risk that is internalised in the capital stock or assets produced. To date, these investments
have largely increased disaster risk.
As a consequence, the wealth of countries has repeatedly been eroded by disasters through loss of
and damage to its capital stock. When produced, human and natural capital is affected by disasters;
the competitiveness and sustainability of economies can be severely compromised with long-term
negative impacts. These risks and the resulting costs are often transferred to and shared with
other locations, actors or times.

2.1

				
The wealth of nations at risk

The wealth of a country in the form of produced,
human and natural capital can be severely affected by disasters. In such cases, even a temporary inability of local and national economies
to attract capital may have long-term negative
impacts.
Disasters are often still described as exogenous
shocks (G20/OECD, 2012). In reality, disaster risk is
endogenous to investment and assets. Extreme
hazards, such as major earthquakes, volcanic
eruptions and destructive tsunamis, can certainly
be described as exogenous events. But the losses
and impacts that characterise disasters usually
have as much to do with the exposure and vulnerability of capital stock as with the severity of the
hazard event.
Capital stock can be divided into three categories:
produced capital (including machinery and structures and urban land); intangible capital (including
human and institutional capital); and natural capital
(including energy, mineral and forest resources,
crop and pasture land and protected areas) (World
Bank, 2011; UNU-IHDP and UNEP, 2012).i
Disaster risk becomes internalized in and endogenous to these different categories of capital stock,
42

Part I - Chapter 2

reflecting how and where investment decisions orient capital flows, in the context of a range of mediating factors, including government regulation and
incentives, insurance availability and pricing and financing. In other words, disaster risk is not natural
but is produced through investment decisions and
the range of factors that mediate those decisions.
Since the last global economic crisis of the mid1970s, a new economic globalisation has transformed the world beyond recognition—in its economy, society, politics, culture, territory and
environment. It is beyond the scope or objective of
this report to analyse the complexity or dynamics
of these transformations. But if economic globalisation has changed the pathways through which
capital flows, then the landscape of disaster risk
will also have been transformed.
Over recent decades, spatial barriers to investment have been continuously eroded. Technological innovations such as containerization, satellite
communication and the internet; the liberalization of trade and financial markets; new organizational models based on networks rather than hierarchies and the emergence of important new
markets are only some of the components that
have enabled and encouraged large businesses to
decentralize, outsource or off-shore all or part of
their operations to different locations worldwide
(Castells et al., 2012).

In doing so, businesses have enhanced productivity
and profitability by exploiting the comparative advantages of different geographies, such as in countries and cities that offer attractive labour costs and
skills, easy access to export markets, good infrastructure, a stable economic and political environment, and many other factors. Although in many
cases, low labour costs may have been the principal
incentive driving production, distribution, research
and development, sales and services to other locations, each business sector responds to a particular
range of requirements and incentives.
As business investment becomes increasingly footloose and freed from spatial constraints, at the
same time, it has become increasingly sensitive to
the mix of comparative advantages internalised in
each location. In other words, choosing the right location to invest becomes increasingly important to
maintain and enhance competitiveness.

At the same time, as business investors scan the horizon in search of locations that can provide a competitive edge, competition between cities and countries to attract investment has become increasingly
fierce. National and city governments promote their
comparative advantage and attract investors by improving infrastructure, urban development and cultural landmarks.
The volume of foreign direct investment (FDI) provides an indication of the size of global capital flows.
As Figure 2.1 highlights, FDI peaked at US$2.35 trillion in 2008, of which US$1.13 trillion went into services, including infrastructure; US$0.98 trillion into
manufacturing; and US$0.23 trillion into primary activities such as mining, oil and gas and agriculture.
Globally, one of the results of these flows has been a
substantial increase in the value of produced capital. In absolute terms, produced capital remains

Figure 2.1 FDI projects by sector, 2005–2011ii

(Source: UNISDR, based on estimates by UNCTAD, 2012)

43

concentrated in OECD countries. The value of produced capital in OECD countries increased by about
one-fifth from US$75.3 trillion in 1995 to US$93.4
trillion in 2005 (World Bank, 2011).
In relative terms, however, there have been spectacular increases in the value of produced capital in
those low and middle-income countries that have
been successful in attracting investment. The value
of produced capital in East Asia and the Pacific,iii for
example, more than doubled from US$4.6 trillion in
1995 to US$10 trillion in 2005.
In contrast, the value of produced capital in regions
that have been less successful in attracting investment has grown from a small base and at a slower
rate. For example, the value of produced capital in
sub-Saharan Africa increased from US$1.1 billion in
1995 to only US$1.3 billion in 2005, representing less
than 1% of the world’s total.
Figure 2.2 highlights the contrast between China,
where the stock of produced capital has more than
quadrupled over the last 20 years, and the United
States of America, where it has increased by only
Figure 2.2 Produced capital growth in China and the United
States of America

(Source: Adapted from UNU-IHDP and UNEP, 2012)

44

Part I - Chapter 2

70 percent over the same period (UNU-IHDP and
UNEP, 2012).
Since 2009, and as Figure 2.1 previously shows, FDI
flows have fallen as a result of the global crisis. FDI
flows from countries such as China, however, are
growing rapidly, reaching US$77 billion in 2012. Although still relatively small, this trend indicates
changes in the direction of capital flows. At the
same time, as labour costs increase and access to
skilled workers becomes limited in some markets,
some previously attractive locations for FDI may
lose some of their comparative advantage.

2.2

				
Increasing exposure

New data confirm that a rapid increase in exposure is a major driver of disaster risk today. Investments in flood plains or on cyclone-prone
coastlines lead to spiraling risk levels but are
still considered profitable as special industrial
zones, a skilled workforce and large markets
bring comparative advantages and continue to
attract business.
Some regions that are successfully attracting investment and have seen the largest increase in
produced capital are also exposed to hazards
such as earthquakes, tropical cyclones and tsunamis. As such, benefits to business from globalisation have also been accompanied by major
boosts in population and value of assets in hazard-exposed areas. These areas include tsunami
and cyclone-prone coastlines, flood-prone river
basins and earthquake-prone mega-cities. Seasoned investors have not acted irrationally in
flocking to these areas. On the contrary—many
such areas offer higher productivity and comparative advantages. For example, export-oriented
production and distribution tends to cluster
around international ports; tourism is attracted
to tropical beaches and islands (Hallegatte, 2011).
These areas, however, present disaster risks,

which are not necessarily factored into business
investment decisions.
Between 1970 and 2010, for example, while global
population growth was 87 percent, populations living in flood plains grew by 114 percent and in cyclone-prone coastlines by 192 percent. Similarly, the
proportion of global GDP exposed to tropical cyclones increased from 3.6 percent to 4.3 percent
over the same period. Most of this increase occurred
in Asia (UNISDR, 2011). This implies that through
economic globalisation, populations and assets located in hazard-exposed areas have grown faster
than in other areas. Figure 2.3 below, for example,
highlights the concentration of produced capital in
areas exposed to cyclonic winds in East Asia.
This growth in exposure is one of the principal drivers of increasing disaster risk. Simply put, the concentration of individuals and produced capital in

hazard-exposed areas today is greater by an order
of magnitude than it was 40 years ago.

2.3

Reducing mortality risk and
increasing economic risk

Exposure is a key driver, but vulnerability levels
still strongly shape the different levels of disaster risk that can be found between and within
countries. Several countries have been successful in significantly reducing mortality risk. But
many countries have struggled to reduce economic risks—particularly those with limited capacities for managing development process
and investments.
Disaster risk not only depends on the severity of
hazard or volume of population or assets exposed,
it also is a function of the susceptibility of people

Figure 2.3 Produced capital stock in Southeast Asia and cyclone wind hazard (50 years return period)

Cyclonic winds

(Source: GAR global risk model)

45

and economic assets to suffer loss and damage—in
other words, their vulnerability. And vulnerability
has also been modified by economic globalisation.

Figure 2.4 Countries with high mortality risk, low competitiveness and weak conditions and capabilities for risk reduction

In general, higher-income countries and those with
rapid economic growth over recent decades have
successfully reduced their mortality risk. With economic development, capacities in disaster and
emergency management generally improve. Since
2007, countries reporting progress against the Hyogo Framework for Action (HFA) have consistently
highlighted good progress in strengthening disaster
preparedness and response and in developing institutional and legislative capacities to do so (UNISDR,
2009 and 2011).
With improved transport infrastructure and health
facilities, which facilitate evacuation and prompt
medical attention, this leads to reduced vulnerability, at least in the case of floods and tropical cyclones, even though the exposed population increases (Kahn, 2005; UNISDR, 2011). For example, it
was estimated that mortality risk associated with
tropical cyclones in East Asia and the Pacific fell by
50 percent between 1980 and 2010 (UNISDR, 2011)
although exposure increased by about 160 percent.
In contrast, in regions with slower economic growth,
mortality risk is still high. For example, in sub-Saharan Africa, flood mortality risk has been growing
consistently since 1980 (UNISDR, 2011) because the
rapid increase in exposure has not been accompanied by a commensurable reduction in vulnerability.
These examples confirm that the underlying risk
drivers as identified in previous Global Assessment
Reports are key challenges for several countries.
Figure 2.4 compares an index of mortality risk (UNISDR, 2009) with an index of competitiveness (WEF,
2012) and an index of conditions and capabilities for
disaster risk reduction—for example, managing urban development, setting up effective governance
structures, protecting the environment and alleviating poverty and vulnerability (DARA, 2012). Some
countries, such as Haiti, Madagascar and Sierra Le46

Part I - Chapter 2

(Source: UNISDR, based on the WEF Competitiveness Index 2011; GAR Mortality
Risk Index 2011; DARA Risk Reduction Index 2012)

one, have not been successful in attracting investment, have low capacities to manage disaster risks
and have high mortality risk.
Many countries have been far less successful, in
contrast, in reducing the vulnerability of their produced capital, including housing, infrastructure and
productive assets. Low and middle-income countries, in particular, report that they are challenged to
use tools such as land-use planning, environmental
management and building codes to reduce these
vulnerabilities (UNISDR, 2009 and 2011). As a consequence, as mortality risk has decreased in successful economies, economic disaster risk has been increasing in concert with the growth in exposure
(Neumeyer and Barthel, 2010). In some regions, including in OECD countries, the risk of losing produced capital in disasters may now be growing faster than the capital being produced (UNISDR, 2011;
Hallegatte, 2011).
Earthquake mortality risk differs from the mortality
risk associated with floods and tropical cyclones.
While warning systems are becoming increasingly
sophisticated, earthquake mortality is closely correlated to building collapse. This implies that earthquake-prone countries with rapidly growing econo-

mies and the inability to reduce the vulnerability of
their building stock may also have increased earthquake mortality risk.
In countries that are not competitive and have been
unsuccessful in attracting investment, economic
loss risk, in absolute terms, has not risen in the same
way. This is not because their produced capital is
not vulnerable but because the density of hazardexposed capital is far lower.
These trends have clear implications for business
investment. Although vulnerability may be lower in
high-income countries, as the value of produced
capital increases, disaster risk also increases simply as a result of increased exposure. However,
businesses that invest in low and middle-income
countries may face increased disaster risk, not only
as a result of increasing exposure but because
these countries have not yet developed the capacities to reduce their vulnerabilities. If businesses
do not factor these vulnerabilities into their investment decisions, they may be assuming risks and liabilities that will only become apparent when hazard events occur.

2.4

The globalisation of risk:
vulnerable supply chains

Today’s globalised production systems and supply chains have created new vulnerabilities. While
increasing efficiency and saving costs for businesses, global supply chains may contain hidden
disaster risks with potentially devastating consequences, including for investors and markets.
Economic globalisation has increased sharply the
value of produced capital exposed to hazards in
countries challenged to reduce their vulnerabilities;
it has also provided changes to the structure of supply chains. These changes magnify and transmit disaster risk to other countries and regions not directly exposed.

As different business functions have been outsourced and decentralised, the global economy has
become structured around an integrated web of
supply chains.iv For example, faced with growing
competition, the Japanese automobile industry decentralised production to other countries. As Figure
2.5 highlights, this led to a doubling in the export of
automobile parts, from about 1.3 million manufactured parts in 1999 to about 3.2 million in 2010. The
industries supply chain has thus become increasingly globalised.
To become successful, businesses not only procure
materials and parts from overseas suppliers, but
also outsource functions, such as product design
and logistics. Productivity therefore increases because each business in the supply chain can strategically allocate resources to those activities where it
has a comparative advantage. The supply chain
thus becomes a web involving multi-tier suppliers
and service providers.
Various trends have characterised global supply
chain evolution: the production process has been
split into separate nodes in different locations,
linked by multi-modal distribution facilities; supplier
consolidation has emerged to increase economies
of scale and reduced transaction costs; production
agglomeration in areas with low transport costs
(such as coastal areas and river basins) has facilitated knowledge spill-over, labour market pooling, input sharing, lower product shipping costs and logistics consolidation, increasing the dependence of
supply chains on international distribution facilities
such as major ports and airports (Ye and Abe, 2012).
Although globalisation of supply chains may have
increased productivity, it has also globalised risk;
when business at a critical node in a supply chain is
affected by a disaster, the effects quickly ripple
throughout the entire supply chain.
As highlighted above, as supply chains have evolved,
production has been clustered in areas that may
provide businesses with low transport costs but are
47

Figure 2.5 Increased export of parts in the Japanese automobile industry (in JP¥ 1 million)v

(Source: UNISDR, based on data from the Japan Auto Parts Industry Associationvi)

Box 2.1 Port cities with high exposure and vulnerability to climate extremes

Rapid urbanisation

Maritime transport handles over 80 percent of the volume of global trade and accounts for over 70 percent of its
value. Since 1970, global seaborne trade has expanded by an annual average of 3.1 percent and has doubled in
the last 30 years (UNDESA, 2012).
Port cities are a vital nexus in global supply chains. In 2005, 13 of the 20 most populated cities in the world were
port cities. Many of these are exposed to flooding and storms. An analysis of a sample of 136 port cities with
populations of more than 1 million highlighted that currently North America has the highest volume of exposed
economic assets and Asia the largest proportion of exposed population (Nicholls et al., 2008).
Owing to economic and urban growth, natural and artificial subsidence, sea level rise and climate change, this
exposure is likely to increase dramatically, particularly in low and middle-income countries. Whereas the estimated exposure of economic assets is expected to increase from US$416 billion in Miami, United States of
America, in 2005 to US$3,513 billion in 2070, in Mumbai, India, asset exposure would increase from US$46 billion to US$1,598 billion, and in Guangzhou, China, from US$84 billion to US$3,557 billion (Nicholls et al., 2008).
In Dhaka, Bangladesh, it would increase from US$8 billion to an extraordinary US$544 billion (Ibid.).
Low and middle-income countries are driving growth in global merchandise trade. For example, the share of
low and middle-income countries in total global unloaded goods rose from 18 percent to 56 percent between
1970 and 2010 (UNCTAD, 2012). Increased hazard exposure therefore not only poses a threat to the competitiveness of cities and ports but increasingly to global trade flows and supply chains.

(Source: UNISDR)

48

Part I - Chapter 2

often hazard-exposed. As Box 2.1 shows, the dependence of supply chains on logistical and transportation nodes such as ports and airports, further increases risk.
Businesses have demonstrated that supply chain
efficiency can be increased by reducing inventories,
shortening transportation times and streamlining
production. However, these measures may undermine supply chain resilience (Haraguchi and Lall,
2012). Lean supply chains and ‘just-in-time’ delivery
systems require more frequent deliveries of supplies, minimising inventories and turnover time.
While maximising efficiency, they further increase
the interdependence between businesses and remove the buffer provided by stocks (Ye and Abe,
2012). In turn, this increases the probability that a
disaster at one critical point of a supply chain will
have a systemic impact.
Investors need to be aware that small and medium
enterprises (SMEs) often play a key role in supply
chains, providing small quantities of labour-intensive components and services. As noted above,
SMEs may be more vulnerable and less resilient
than larger businesses, as they are generally undiversified and underinsured.

2.5

				
Shared risks

The risk of losses and negative impacts from disasters is often transferred or shared over
space and time. Business investments that increase disaster risk may directly increase the
cost of disasters to affected communities. Government regulation that fails to protect critical
infrastructure may result in high costs to businesses from power outages, communications
failures and collapse of transport systems. Similarly, today’s new risks will be experienced by
tomorrow’s generations.
As new business investments are made in hazard-

exposed areas, disaster risks to the business itself
are generated. But other risks, often referred to as
external social and environmental costs, are in effect transferred to or shared with other sectors including the public sector. When investment decisions are made, businesses may not take into
account how disaster risks may threaten their own
operations—it is even less usual for businesses to
account for risks that are shared with others. These
shared risks are not priced; thus, market mechanisms to account for them usually do not exist.
One of the most well-known examples of risk transfer or sharing is through greenhouse gas emissions.
Anthropogenic climate change may exacerbate
weather-related hazards in other regions and thus
lead to increased disaster losses. However, these
costs are not borne by the emitter. Small island developing states (SIDS), for example, are responsible
for less than 1 percent of total global greenhouse
gas emissions but are likely to suffer disproportionately from the effects of sea-level rise or risks associated with storm surges and coastal flooding.
But climate change is only one mechanism through
which risk is shared. For example, new road and real
estate developments in urban areas may decrease
the capacity of water management systems and
soils to absorb excess water during storms in a city.
New urban development may therefore produce
flood risks, which are then shared with low-income
households located in the most flood-prone areas
and who would experience the greatest losses. City
governments would also lose, as they would have to
invest in drainage infrastructure. Box 2.2 highlights
how, during the Chao Phraya floods in Thailand in
2011, a transfer of risks to low-income households
took place.
Other mechanisms of risk sharing include when
business investments contribute to a depletion of
regulatory or productive ecosystem services—for
example, when mangroves are destroyed for shrimp
farms; when groundwater resources are overexploited for commercial agriculture or recreational
49

Box 2.2 The impact of the Thailand floods on the urban poor

Although media attention on the 2011 Thailand floods focused on the impact on supply chains in the automobile and electronics industries, there were also major impacts on the urban poor.
Located only 1–2 metres above mean sea level, Bangkok is naturally prone to flooding. But flood hazard has
been magnified by urbanisation. Canals, which provided the backbone of the city’s transport network and fulfilled an important drainage function, have been filled in; dense urbanisation has decreased the area of permeable surface; groundwater extraction is causing the city to subside at a faster rate than climate change-induced
sea level rise. Watersheds in the Chao Phraya river basin have been degraded, while weakly implemented urban
planning and management led to the growth of both private developments and informal settlements in floodprone areas. Informal settlements, for example, often encroach on canals and are the first to be affected.
Although approximately 21 percent of the population of Bangkok was affected by flooding, this percentage increased to 73 percent of low-income households affected. The Thai Government’s National Housing Authority
estimates that 90,362 homes out of a total of 135,582 were of low-income families. Five years ago, the IPCC had
issued a warning of the particular vulnerability of the Chao Phraya river basin and the danger to the growing
population living there (Nicholls et al., 2008).

(Source: UNISDR)

activities such as golf courses; or when forests are
cut down for agricultural or urban development.
According to a recent survey the external environmental costs of eleven key industry sectors rose by
50 percent from 2002 to 2010, from US$566 to 854
billion and are doubling every fourteen years. In the
agribusiness sector alone, external environmental
costs outweighed the sectors entire earnings (KPMG
International, 2012). These social and environmental risks and costs are not on the balance sheets of
businesses but are shared with other sectors as well
as future generations.
However, risk sharing is not unidirectional. Failure
by the public sector to manage risks in public infrastructure shares risks with businesses that face interruption owing to power outages or transport disruption. Similarly, failure to effectively regulate
land-use or to control building standards increases
risks for city regions. These risks and externalised
costs are then borne by businesses.
Ultimately, however, risk sharing may have a ‘boomerang effect’ (Beck, 1992), given that entities or individuals that produce these risks will also be exposed to them. From this perspective, disaster risk
50

Part I - Chapter 2

is a shared risk, and businesses, the public sector
and civil society all participate in its construction.
Disaster risk management, therefore, must be considered a shared value—an issue that we revisit in
the final chapter of this report.
Notes
i	 These categories are those defined and measured empirically
by the World Bank (World Bank, 2011) but many other classifications
exist. The items included here are only an example of the components included in each category.
ii	 ‘Primary’ refers to mainly mining, quarrying and petroleum.
iii	 Economic regions as defined by the World Bank. East Asia and
the Pacific exclude OECD countries such as Australia, Japan and
New Zealand.
iv	 A system of organisations, technology, information and resources that moves products and services from suppliers to customers.
v	 Figures given at 2010 prices, using GDP deflators from the World
Bank database (http://data.worldbank.org/indicator/NY.GDP.DEFL.
ZS). The percentage presented is the share of export to the total
product sales. The performance for each fiscal year is based on data
from 360–450 large automobile parts producers in any given year.
vi	 See http://www.japia.or.jp/research/index.html.

Chapter 3

Intensive Riskscapes

51

Patterns of intensive risk have developed along the fault lines of four decades of economic development and globalisation. The potential consequences of these risks can now be estimated and visualized. A first ever global probabilistic assessment allows for a better understanding of intensive risk
for earthquakes and cyclonic winds.
The results from the global assessment are a wake-up call: global average annual losses from
earthquakes alone are estimated to exceed US$100 billion. Of these, 80 percent are concentrated in
high-income countries. Probable maximum losses for Japan and the United States of America in the
case of a catastrophic one-in-250 year earthquake are over US$100 billion. In these countries,
high exposure is the key driver of disaster risk.
Vulnerability continues to determine risk levels, particularly in low and middle-income countries.
Philippines and Puerto Rico could lose more than 15 percent of their exposed capital stock to
winds from a catastrophic one-in-250 year tropical cyclone.
Roughly 80 percent of cyclonic wind risk is concentrated in Asia. The continent also has significant
tsunami exposure, with Japan leading in both absolute and relative exposure of its people. However, smaller economies, including many SIDS, can expect higher losses relative to their capital
stock for all hazards

Risk maps

3.1

The past is not a good guide to
the future

No two disasters are alike. Along a major earthquake fault line, in a large river basin or along a
coastline, an infinite number of hazard events
could occur. However, most of these have yet
to happen. Therefore, although patterns and
trends of disaster loss provide a guide to the
past, they are often not sufficient to predict
and estimate losses that may occur at present
and in the future.
Historical records may provide information on hazard events that have occurred, even over several
hundred years. However, in any given location,
many events, particularly extreme events that only
occur every thousand years or so have yet to materialise. In order to explore future risks, therefore, it
is necessary to look beyond historical losses.
52

Part I - Chapter 3

For GAR13, a probabilistic approach to risk modelling has been adopted. This approach estimates the
probability of events of different severity occurring in
a given location, including extreme and infrequent
events that have not yet occurred (or which we have
no records of), but which could potentially occur in
future. Historical losses are integrated into this model, as they are an important source of information.
Of interest to investors and businesses exploring
new terrain, a new global analysis, carried out for
the GAR, is beginning to map the contours of this
risk landscape. The objective of the GAR global risk
model is to provide comparable disaster risk metrics for all countries and territories in the world.
As Figure 3.1 highlights, initial global risk estimates
for earthquakes and cyclonic winds and an improved
estimate for tsunami exposure are now available.
At present, the estimates refer to the risk of direct
loss to urban produced capitali and are agglomerated at the country level.ii The model does not estimate the risks of indirect loss owing to business in-

Figure 3.1 GAR Global Risk Model deliverables for 2013 and 2015

(Source: UNISDR)

terruption, risks to agriculture, forestry or other rural
sectors nor mortality and injury.

there may be no recorded earthquake loss over the
last 100 years.

By quantifying the value of urban produced capital
exposed to each potential hazard event that could
occur in each location, and by assessing its likely
vulnerability, it is then possible to estimate the
probability of how much disaster loss could occur in
a given time period.

Annex 1 provides a technical description of how the
new GAR global risk model is being developed.

Maximum losses associated with events of specific
return periods are described as probable maximum
losses (PML): for example, the maximum loss that
might occur once every 250 years would reflect a 0.4
percent probability of the loss occurring in any given
year. When PML for all events that could occur are
averaged over a long period, then annual average
loss (AAL) can be calculated.
Depending on the hazard profile of a country, the
AAL represents the probability of both frequently
occurring losses, for example, with return periods of
five or ten years, as well as highly infrequent losses
that may occur, for example, once every thousand
years. For that reason, AAL should not be confused
with the average observed losses that have occurred, even if records go back a century or more. A
country may have a relatively high AAL—from earthquakes, for example—if catastrophic loss is expected from a rare thousand-year event, even though

Risk estimates are computed using highly simplified
global hazard models, a proxy for the exposure of
urban produced capital and a standardised global
set of vulnerability curves. Owing to the simplification inherent to global modelling and to the limitations of the current input data on hazard, exposure
and vulnerability, the estimates obtained from the
model have an intrinsic degree of error and uncertainty. As such, estimates are presented as a set of
risk classes rather than as absolute numbers and
represent the likely order of magnitude of loss.
Given that the estimates are calculated using the
same methodology and with consistent global level
proxy data, risk classes are internally coherent at the
global level and provide a point of comparison
between risk levels in countries and territories.
These risk classes should be considered as starting
points to understand the degree of possible annual
losses for a country, enabling a government to discuss which disaster risk management strategies are
most appropriate for its risk profile. The risk classes
may also help investors to understand the degree of
risk faced by different countries.
53

However, the results are unlikely to be comparable
with national or local AAL and PML estimates calculated with detailed hazard, exposure and vulnerability data or for specific portfolios of insured assets. This should not be considered a defect of the
model. However much it is enhanced, a global
model can never provide nor substitute for the detailed risk estimates required for designing national and local risk reduction investments or insurance schemes. However, the estimates provided

by the global model may encourage governments
to develop the more specific risk models required
to implement disaster risk reduction.
The development of the global model is iterative
and the current release should be considered as a
starting point. Between 2013 and 2015, the different
hazard models, exposure proxy and vulnerability
curves will be enhanced and further developed, taking into account peer review and the best available

Box 3.1 Proof of concept for the GAR flood model

While river floods will not be included in the GAR risk model until 2015, a national level proof-of-concept study
shows promising results. As Figure 3.2 shows, in Thailand, modelled results were compared with the outcomes
of the Chao Phaya river floods of 2011.

Figure 3.2 Flood hazard for Thailand compared with actual flood footprint of 2011

(Source: GAR global flood model; UNOSAT iii)

The modelled results were largely coherent with the maximum flood depths of between 3 metres and 4 metres
recorded in different sites upstream from Bangkok.
(Source: UNISDR)

54

Part I - Chapter 3

science and data to provide greater accuracy. By
2015, the model should also include global risk estimates for flooding, storm surges, volcanic ash and
tsunamis. Box 3.1 presents a proof of concept for
the global flood model.

3.2

			
Earthquake risk

Absolute earthquake risk is concentrated in
high-income countries. But many small and lowincome countries have a higher proportion of
their urban produced capital at risk.
Total global annual average loss (AAL) for earthquakes is estimated at more than US$100 billion.
As Figure 3.3 shows, these economic risks are highly concentrated in countries with large volumes of

exposed produced capital and high earthquake
hazard.
As highlighted in the previous chapter, given investment decisions and capital flows, global produced
capital remains heavily concentrated in high-income countries. Therefore, the highest absolute levels of earthquake risk are also found in these countries, which is where approximately 80 percent of
global AAL is concentrated.
In terms of regional distribution, about 76 percent of
total global earthquake AAL is concentrated in Asia,
9 percent in Europe, 8 percent in North America and
5 percent in Latin America.
Figure 3.4 shows the distribution of earthquake AAL
for countries in different risk classes. For example,
the value of urban produced capital in Japan and

Figure 3.3 Annual average loss (AAL) from earthquakes and earthquake hazard (250 year return period)

Earthquake AAL

(Source: GAR global risk model)

55

Figure 3.4 Annual average losses from earthquakes by risk class

(Source: UNISDR, based on GAR global risk model)

the United States of America is US$14 trillion and
US$22 trillion, respectively, representing 15 percent
and 22 percent each of global urban produced capital. However, although about 100 percent of Japan’s
produced capital would be exposed to a 250 year
earthquake, only about 34 percent of the produced
capital of the United States of America would be exposed. Therefore, the AAL of Japan is an order of
magnitude higher than the AAL of the United States
of America.
Some middle-income countries, such as China, Iran
(Islamic Republic of) and the Philippines, also have
high levels of risk because their exposed produced
capital is more vulnerable than in high-income
countries, for example due to weaker building structure and material. The impact that this has on expected AAL highlights the risks of making business
investments in countries with higher levels of vulnerability an important consideration for investors.
56

Part I - Chapter 3

Although estimates of absolute loss are important,
the impact of an earthquake on a country’s economy will depend on the proportion of its urban produced capital that could be affected. Figure 3.5
shows that many low and middle-income and
smaller countries can be expected to lose a higher
proportion of their urban produced capital, which in
turn could be expected to generate serious indirect
losses for business and macroeconomic effects.iv
For example, the absolute value of AAL for countries
such as Papua New Guinea and Vanuatu is low compared with other countries (between US$10 and 100
million), but this value represents between 1 percent and 10 percent of these countries’ total urban
produced capital. In contrast, for the United States
of America and China, expected annual average
losses, although totalling between US$1,000 and
10,000 million, represent only 0.01 percent to 0.1
percent of their total urban produced capital.

Figure 3.5 Annual average losses from earthquakes as a percentage of urban produced capital by risk class

(Source: UNISDR, based on GAR global risk model)

Probable maximum losses for a one-in-250 year
earthquake have been estimated both in absolute
terms as well as relative to countries’ urban produced capital. Although there is only a 0.4 percent
probability of these losses occurring in any given
year, these values are indicative of the potential extent of losses owing to catastrophic earthquake
events. As expected, countries with highest probable maximum losses are Japan and the United
States of America—with more than US$100 billion.
Countries such as Iran (Islamic Republic of) and China follow closely behind, possibly incurring earthquake losses of more than US$10 billion.
Comparing these expected losses with total urban
produced capital provides an indication on what
the impact of an event would be on a country’s assets. For example, in the Philippines they would correspond to almost 19 percent of its total urban produced capital. Haiti faces losses of more than 25

percent of its urban produced capital again indicating the possibility of a serious impact on business
and the economy as a whole. Some small-island
developing states, such as the Solomon Islands, risk
losing over 40 percent of the value of their exposed
capital in a catastrophic quake.
Vulnerability also remains a key determinant of
earthquake risk levels. If countries with similar values
of exposed capital are compared, the assets of countries with higher PML are likely to be more vulnerable.
For example, probable losses for Spain and Hong
Kong (Special Administrative Region of China), with
a high value of exposed urban produced capital
(about US$1.9 trillion and US$1.1 trillion, respectively) are lower than losses for Iran (Islamic Republic of)
and Haiti, which have a significantly lower value of
exposed capital (US$0.7 trillion and US$8.5 billion,
respectively). These results reflect the much higher
57

Figure 3.6 Probable maximum losses from earthquakes as a percentage of exposed urban produced capital (250 year return period)

(Source: UNISDR, based on GAR global risk model)

vulnerability of exposed assets in Iran (Islamic Republic of) and Haiti compared with exposed assets
in Spain and Hong Kong (Special Administrative
Region of China) (Figure 3.6).

3.3

				
Risk from cyclonic winds

As in the case of earthquakes, expected economic damage from tropical cyclone wind is
mainly concentrated in high-income countries
and in Asia. However, in relative terms smaller
countries, such as SIDS could be expected to
lose a far higher proportion of their assets. In
many low and middle-income countries, risk is
heavily conditioned by vulnerability.
Global annual average losses from cyclonic winds
are estimated to be over US$80 billion. Currently,
58

Part I - Chapter 3

the risk model does not include losses owing to
storm surges or coastal flooding but only wind damage. However, it does estimate the losses incurred
as cyclones in tropical areas move southward or
northwards (depending on the hemisphere) and become sub-tropical or extra-tropical storms (as in the
case of Sandy in 2012, for example). At present the
tropical cyclonic wind hazard model may have a
greater degree of uncertainty and error than the
earthquake hazard model and will be further validated and enhanced for GAR15.
Figure 3.7 shows the geographical distribution of
the risk. About 80 percent of the risk from cyclonic
winds is concentrated in Asia, 13 percent in North
America, 4 percent in Latin America and about 2
percent in the Caribbean.
In terms of absolute losses, about 82 percent of risk
is concentrated in high-income countries, corre-

Figure 3.7 Annual average losses from cyclonic winds and tropical cyclone wind hazard (250 year return period)

Cyclone-winds AAL

(Source: GAR global risk model)

Figure 3.8 Annual average losses from cyclonic winds by risk class

(Source: UNISDR, based on GAR global risk model)

59

Figure 3.9 Annual average losses from cyclonic winds compared with urban produced capital

(Source: UNISDR, based on GAR global risk model)

Figure 3.10 Probable maximum losses from cyclonic winds (250 year return period) compared with the exposed urban produced capital

(Source: UNISDR, based on GAR global risk model)

60

Part I - Chapter 3

sponding to the highest concentration of urban
produced capital. Middle-income countries concentrate 18 percent of risk from cyclonic winds,
corresponding to about US$16 billion. Distribution
of AAL across countries by risk class is shown in
Figure 3.8.
Japan and the United States of America concentrate 56 percent of global risk from cyclonic winds,
corresponding to the high value of their exposed
capital.v Urban produced capital exposed to cyclonic windsvi in Japan and the United States of
America is valued at about US$14 trillion and
US$11.6 trillion, respectively. This corresponds to
100 percent and 52 percent, respectively, of total urban produced capital of both countries.
Middle-income countries such as China, Mexico
and the Philippines all have high AAL in terms of
absolute value. However, in relation to the countries’ produced capital, the losses vary significantly: although the AAL for China and Mexico corresponds to about 0.2 percent of the country’s urban
produced capital, the AAL for the Philippines corresponds to more than 1 percent of the country’s
total produced capital (Figure 3.9).
Absolute probable maximum losses from a catastrophic one-in-250 year cyclone are also estimated
to be significant, particularly for countries with high
asset exposure.
When calculated as a percentage of total urban
produced capital, the probable maximum losses
from such as catastrophic event become particularly threatening to small countries. For example,
countries such as Belize, Guadeloupe, Martinique
and Samoa could lose between 20 percent and 40
percent of their total urban produced capital
from cyclonic wind disasters (Figure 3.10).
As in the case of earthquakes expected losses are
also influenced by vulnerability. For example, in
terms of absolute probable maximum losses,
countries and territories such as Hong Kong (Spe-

cial Administrative Region of China), the Philippines
and Puerto Rico are in the same risk class. However,
in relative terms, Hong Kong (Special Administrative
Region of China) faces losses of only 2 percent,
whereas the Philippines and Puerto Rico face losses
of more than 15 percent of their exposed capital.

3.4

				
Tsunami exposure

Exposure to tsunamis is a good proxy for the
risk associated with highly destructive onein-500 year tsunamis. Japan has the highest
exposure of produced capital in absolute terms
and the third highest in relative terms but many
smaller countries and territories, including
Hong Kong and Macau (Special Administrative
Regions of China) have high levels of relative
risk. Of major global concern is the exposure to
tsunamis of critical facilities such as airports
and nuclear power plants.
Produced capital in coastal areas is also at risk from
tsunamis. Tsunamis are relatively infrequent, with
only 5–10 events reported globally per year, but they
can be devastating, causing massive loss of life,
large economic losses and the destruction of critical
facilities. The Indian Ocean tsunami in 2004 is estimated to have caused about 220,000 deaths and
more than US$10 billion in damages (Cosgrave,
2007). The East Japan tsunami in 2011 resulted in
15,875 deaths, 2,725 missing personsvii and approximately US$206 billion in damagesviii.
The global tsunami model has been updated for
GAR13. Compared with the first global scale tsunami hazard and exposure assessment carried
out for GAR09, the GAR13 model adopts improved
methodologies and provides a more complete
coverage of the global earthquake sources that
might produce destructive tsunamis. This improved the model in many locations, such as Japan and Latin America.ix As Box 3.2 at the end of
this chapter shows, the results from national
61

models of some countries, such as Indonesia,
also contributed to the global modelling effort.
Figure 3.12 below shows the global distribution of
infrequent but severe tsunamis generated by large
earthquakes with return periods of approximately
500 years, equivalent to a 0.2 percent probability of
occurrence in any given year.x

Figure 3.13 highlights the exposure of both people
and produced capital to these tsunamis. Japan is
highly exposed in both relative and absolute
terms, and concentrates about 16 percent of exposed global produced capital. Macao (Special
Administrative Region of China) also ranks high in
relative and absolute capital exposed. Many
smaller countries and territories also have a high

Figure 3.12 Global distribution of estimated inundation height from earthquake-generated
tsunamis (500 year return period)

(Source: UNISDR, based on NGI, 2013a)

62

Part I - Chapter 3

Tsunami hazard

Figure 3.13 Top ten countries in terms of population and stock of urban produced capital exposed to tsunamis (absolute and relative)xii xiii

(Source: GAR global risk model)

relative exposure. Maldives has over 30 percent of
its produced capital stock exposed, followed by
the Solomon Islands with over 25 percent; Oman
with 9.5 percent; and Hong Kong (Special Administrative Region of China) with about 5 percent.
Although tsunami exposure is not the same as tsunami risk, in the case of extremely destructive 500
year return period tsunamis, exposure is probably a
good guide to risk, as vulnerability tends to become
binary—assets that are exposed are at risk and
those that are not exposed are not.

Of particular concern is the location of critical facilities, including nuclear power plants and airports, in
areas exposed to destructive tsunamis.xi In the United States of America, a total of 13 nuclear power
plants are either in or close to areas exposed to tsunamis; in China, Japan and the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the numbers of
such plants are 12, 10 and 7, respectively. However,
nuclear facilities are subject to rigorous local risk assessments and thus likely to have countermeasures
in place to reduce risk.

63

Airports are similarly at risk. In the United States of
America, 58 airports are in areas exposed to destructive tsunamis; in Japan, there are 40. Airport
exposure is most critical in small island states,

whose economies may depend on a single airport
or where all airports will be affected at the same
time. In the French Polynesia archipelago, for example,
a total of 26 airports are exposed.

Box 3.2 Unveiling tsunami hazard in Indonesia

Indonesia has high tsunami risk. In the past 100 years, 24 tsunamis have killed more than 235,000 people. To
better manage this risk, the national disaster management agency (Badan Nasional Pananggulangan Bencana,
BNPB) and AusAID, through the Australia-Indonesia Facility for Disaster Reduction, formed a collaborative
team representing Institut Teknologi Bandung, Indonesian Institute of Science (LIPI), BPPT, Badan Geologi,
BMKG, TDMRC and Geoscience Australia to conduct an advanced and rigorous national tsunami hazard assessment.
Tsunami hazard maps are based on a probabilistic tsunami hazard assessment methodology, which allows the
probability of tsunamis of different heights to be quantified. Maps produced allow disaster managers to:
•	 Understand the chance of a tsunami reaching the coastline that would trigger an orange (‘tsunami’) or red
(‘major tsunami’) tsunami warning;
•	 Understand the maximum tsunami height over different return periods;
•	 Rank the tsunami potential for each district in Indonesia to prioritise communities for tsunami mitigation
activities;
•	 Assess tsunami potential for each district to plan tsunami mitigation activities;
•	 Determine earthquake fault lines that may have an impact on each district.
The assessment highlights that the West coast of Sumatra, the South coast of Java and Nusa Tenggara have the
highest tsunami hazard (Figure 3.11).

Figure 3.11 Tsunami hazard in Indonesia (500 year return period)

(Source: Geoscience Australia)xiv

64

Part I - Chapter 3

Notes
i	 Urban produced capital is the produced capital in urban areas
with more than 2,000 inhabitants.
ii	 Countries and territories for which no data on urban produced
capital is available could not be included in the risk modelling exercise. These include: American Samoa, Andorra, Ashmore and
Cartier Islands, Azores Islands, Baker Island, Bassas da India, Bird Island, Bouvet Island, British Indian Ocean Territory, Christmas Island,
Clipperton Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Cook Islands, Dhekelia
and Akrotiri SBA, Europa Island, French Guernsey, Glorioso Island,
Guam, Heard Island and McDonald Islands, Holy See, Howland Island, Isle of Man, Jarvis Island, Jersey, Johnston Atoll, Juan de Nova
Island, Kingman Reef, Liancourt Rock, Madeira Islands, Midway
Island, Nauru, Navassa Island, Netherlands Antilles, Niue, Norfolk
Island, Northern Mariana Islands, Palmyra Atoll, Paracel Islands, Pitcairn, Romania, Saint Helena, Saint Pierre et Miquelon, Scarborough
Reef, Senkaku Islands, South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands, Southern and Antarctic Territories, Spratly Islands, Svalbard
and Jan Mayen Islands, Timor-Leste, Tokelau, Tromelin Island, Wake
Island, Wallis and Futuna.
iii	 www.unitar.org/unosat/maps/tha.
iv	 In countries where only a small proportion of urban produced
capital is at risk, there is less chance of business and supply chain
interruption and a greater likelihood of rapid recovery. In contrast,
where a significant proportion of the urban produced capital is at
risk, it is more likely that business will be interrupted owing to infrastructure damage and supply chain disruption and that recovery of
the economy as a whole will be slower.
v	 Exposure is here estimated overlapping the urban produced
capital with the cyclonic wind hazard for a return period of 250
years, with wind speed higher than 50 Km/h.
vi	 Capital exposed to cyclonic wind speed higher than 150 km/h
for 250 year return period. This is a proxy for the exposure as it does
not take into account flooding owing to tropical cyclones.
vii	 Data are as of 5 Dec. 2012 by National Police Agency, Japanese
Government (http://www.npa.go.jp/archive/keibi/biki/higaijokyo.
pdf).
viii	 1USD=JPY81.84. The estimate was reported in June 2011 by
Cabinet Office, Japanese Government (http://www.bousai.go.jp/
oshirase/h23/110624-1kisya.pdf).
ix	 See Annex 1 for more detail on the methodology.
x	 The return period attributed for the model needs to be considered as an estimate, and some events might have a slightly lower or
higher return period than 500 years.
xi	 All data related to nuclear power plants and airports at risk from
Norwegian Geological Institute and UNEP-GRID.
xii	 In this graph, (urban) produced capital is used as a reference
point for relative risk (rather than gross fixed capital formation) as
the total exposure of produced capital needs to be compared with
the total stock of produced capital.
xiii	 ‘Exposure’ here is calculated by overlapping the potential area
inundated by an extreme tsunami (return period approximately 500
years) with the population or stock in the area.
xiv	 Information for this box provided directly to UNISDR by GeoScience Australia.

65

Chapter 4

Invisible Risks

67

Extensive risk is associated with localised, mainly weather-related hazards with short return periods. These highly localised, yet frequent hazards include surface water and flash flooding, landslides, fires and both agricultural and hydrological drought. They are exacerbated by badly managed urban development, environmental degradation and poverty.
An analysis of the scale of economic losses shows that extensive risk continues to be underestimated. The real cost of these largely human produced risks is rarely highlighted. Although extensive
risk events cause only 13 percent of total mortality, they are responsible for 42 percent or more of
total economic losses.
These losses are hidden in largely invisible risk layers that no insurance covers. And yet they can
amount to more than 10 percent or more of annual capital formation.

4.1

				
The production of extensive risk

In-depth analysis of new national disaster loss
data confirms a previously recognised and yet
regularly ignored truth: accumulated losses
from small-scale, highly frequent and localised
disaster events approach in magnitude those of
major disasters and contribute to declines in social
welfare, economic growth and ecosystems.
Urban and rural areas alike, particularly in low
and middle-income countries, experience regular small disasters that undermine local development as well as national competitiveness.
GAR09 (UNISDR, 2009) highlighted four underlying
risk drivers that characterise the accumulation of
extensive risks. (1) Badly planned and managed urban development, for example, can generate flooding, through factors such as increased run-off from
a growing area of impermeable surfaces, inadequate investment in drainage and water management and the development of low-lying flood prone
areas. (2) The decline of regulatory ecosystem services, such as wetlands, aquifers, forests, floodplains and mangroves, exacerbate and magnify hazard levels. (3) Low-income households are often
unable to participate in the formal market to land
and housing and urbanise hazard prone areas,
through informal mechanisms. (4) Cities and regions with weak governance may either lose control
68

Part I - Chapter 4

over the above processes or contribute to them.
Given that not only exposure and vulnerability but
also hazards are produced through these underlying drivers, extensive risk is endogenous to and produced by urban and economic development.
Wealthier, better-governed city regions are likely,
over time, to successfully manage the processes
that generate extensive risk. Rapid urban growth often reflects economic success and major inflows of
capital into infrastructure and productive development (Mitlin and Satterthwaite, 2012). In fact, in
high-income and in many middle-income countries,
the growth in GDP per capita has outpaced growth
in urban population (UN-HABITAT, 2012). Although
exposure and intensive risk increase over time,
these cities and countries reduce their extensive
risk, for example, through investments in protective
infrastructure, environmental management and upgrading of informal settlements.
In contrast, in many low-income countries, growth
in urban population has outstripped growth in
GDP per capita (Ibid.) in part from population migration owing to declining rural economies and crises. In these cities, a greater proportion of low-income households participate in urbanisation
through informal mechanisms of land acquisition
(Johnson et al., 2012; Hamdan, 2012). Governments have little capacity to reduce risks over
time, and both extensive and intensive risks lead to

Box 4.1 Extensive risks in urban centres in Kenya and Tanzania

A recent survey of disaster risk reduction in the towns of Kisumu in Kenya and Moshi in Tanzania depicts similar
pictures. Administrative capacities in Kisumu and Moshi are challenged as local governments try to maintain
basic infrastructure—such as storm drains—the disrepair of which leads to frequent flooding. The lack of waste
management systems means that drains are frequently blocked with garbage and sewage, increasing flood risk
and compromising water quality. The impact on low-income households, who frequently live in the most floodprone areas, is devastating. Land-use planning is ineffective and disaster reduction planning non-existent. Local governments have no budget to dedicate to reduce risks and have little influence over environmental degradation in surrounding areas that increase risks in these towns.

(Source: UNISDR, 2012)

higher rates of mortality. Almost by definition, informal settlements (and a significant proportion of social housing) occupy areas of low land value, such as
low-lying flood-prone areas or on landslide-prone
hillsides.
In the case of Cape Verde and Senegal, for example, in their capitals Praia and Dakar, flooding has
intensified over the years (DARA, 2013). New studies at the local level in West Africa highlight that
underlying drivers of flood risks are poor drainage
systems related to land-use and newly built environments, and limited access to land. The studies
point to West Africa’s continuous problems in expanding urban centres and the need for urban
planning and sufficient public or private investments in adequate infrastructure. Local data of
these studies were backed by national data that
indicated similar problems in urban areas in Cape
Verde, Ghana and Senegal (Ibid.).
In addition, the health of millions is threatened
(Mitlin and Satterthwaite, 2012). For example, in
Maputo, Mozambique, the limited coverage of the
city’s sewage system is a serious cholera threat
even in normal times, which becomes a major
challenge for authorities during annual flooding
(Thompson, 2004).

constructions, further increasing their vulnerability.
Disaster risks in rural areas may be particularly invisible, given the low density of produced capital and
declining population. As Box 4.2 highlights, in the
case of Colombia, rural populationsi with unsatisfied basic needs experienced the largest relative
losses during the 2010–2011 La Niña episode.
Indirect losses and the wider effects of disaster loss
for low-income households and communities are
rarely accounted for. However, GAR09 (UNISDR,
2009) highlighted, through a set of microeconomic
studies, negative welfare outcomes, including declines in school attendance, nutrition, health, productivity and increases in inequality and unemployment. Some of these outcomes can be transmitted
across generations (Ole MoiYoi, 2012). GAR11 (UNISDR, 2011) also showed how extensive disasters negatively affect children and their future.
The social costs of extensive risk are not accounted
for by either governments or business and are largely
absorbed by low-income households and communities, undermining their potential for development
and eroding resilience.

As Box 4.1 shows, investments in protective infrastructure, such as drainage and slope stabilisation,
are often inadequate. Low-income households are
also more likely to live in makeshift or poor quality
69

Box 4.2 Extensive risks in rural areas

In Colombia, weather-related disasters are strongly correlated with ENSO episodes. But while the 2010–2011 La
Niña was no stronger than others that had occurred in 1973–1976, 1998–2001 and 1988–89, the losses in terms
of people affected and damage to housing were far greater (see Figure 4.1).

Figure 4.1 Hydrometeorological disasters and losses in Colombia, 1970–2011

(Source: Adapted from Osso, 2012a)

Most importantly, as Figure 4.2 shows, the proportion of the population affected in rural municipalities (rural
index between 50 and 75) and with over 56 percent of unsatisfied basic needs was approximately 35 times
greater than in the case of urban centres (rural index between 1 and 25) and with less than 27 percent of unsatisfied basic needs).

Figure 4.2 Proportion of disaster-affected inhabitants in urban and rural areas
(expressed by rural index) and with unsatisfied basic needs (expressed by UBN
index) during the 2010-2011 ENSO episode in Colombia

(Source: UNISDR, adapted from Osso, 2012c)

(Source: UNISDR)

70

Part I - Chapter 4

El Niño and La Niña

4.2

			
Visualising the invisible

More than 50 countries are now recording local
disaster losses, enabling them to visualize the
real impact their society and economy is facing.
This information is now available for governments,
affected communities and businesses interested
in investing in these markets.

risk patterns and trends. It is still not possible to
provide a global vision of extensive risk. Box 4.3,
however, highlights that a growing number of countries are developing detailed disaster loss databases that allow extensive risks to be modelled.

Localised hazards can be modelled if the necessary
data is available. For example, Figure 4.3 highlights the results of a study of landslide hazard in
El Salvador.

For businesses and governments that want to know
more about these risks, a complete analysis of extensive risk patterns and trends is provided in Annex
2. Analysis on the selected set of more than 270,000
records of disaster impacts from 56 countries confirms the trends and patterns previously identified
in smaller subsets of 22 and 11 countries (UNISDR,
2011 and UNISDR, 2009).

However, given that extensive risks are characterised by short return periods, the analysis of historical loss data provides a valid approach to modelling

Table 4.1 shows that, although extensive disasters
cause only 13 percent of total mortality, they are responsible for 42 percent of the total economic

Figure 4.3 Hazard (top) and exposure (bottom) to landslides induced by rainfall in El Salvador

(Source: UNISDR, adapted from NGI, 2013b)

71

Box 4.3 Progress in recording local disaster losses and impacts

Extensive disasters

As part of a process that aims at a global vision of local disaster losses, UNISDR, UNDP, the World Bank, Corporacion OSSO and other partners are supporting national governments to build information systems that systematically account for disaster losses and impact. Currently 56 countries engage in this effort.

In Latin America and the Caribbean, Guyana, Honduras, Jamaica, Nicaragua and Uruguay have all recently published disaster databases.

In Africa, Ethiopia, Kenya, Mali and Uganda have completed initial datasets that allow a more realistic view of
disaster losses in countries where global datasets have little coverage. In the Arab states, new databases have
been published in Djibouti and Lebanon.

In Asia, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Timor-Leste and Viet Nam have completed disaster databases; in
the Pacific Islands, a regional dataset covers 22 Small Island Developing States (SIDS). The Lao People’s Democratic Republic disaster database has been used for a National Assessment Report (Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, 2012).

(Source: UNISDR)

72

Part I - Chapter 4

losses recorded in the datasets. In countries that do
not experience large-scale disasters, this figure may
be much higher.
Losses associated with extensive risk, as in the example for Honduras and Uganda below, are spread
over the entire country, affecting all municipalities
(Figure 4.4).
The agricultural sector is one of the most affected
by extensive risks, as initially highlighted by GAR11

with data from Mozambique. These impacts are
further confirmed in the case of Lao People’s
Democratic Republic (Government of Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, 2012) and Lebanon (Figure 4.5).
Economic losses associated with extensive risk are
also increasing rapidly in the 34 new country datasets included in this reportii and are consistent
with the findings of GAR09 and GAR11 (Figure 4.6).
Damage to educational facilities in particular is rising rapidly.

Table 4.1 Extensive and intensive risk impacts summary for 56 countries and 2 Indian states (1981–2011)

(Source: UNISDR)

Figure 4.4 Extensive risk direct economic losses per municipality, in Honduras (left, 1981–2011) and in Uganda (right, 1991–2011)

(Source: UNISDR)

73

Figure 4.5 Extensive risk, number of hectares of agricultural crops affected in Lebanon (left, 1981-2011) and Lao People’s Democratic
Republic (right, 1991-2011)

(Source: UNISDR, based on DesInventar)

Figure 4.6 Loss trends over time (1990–2011) in 34 countries not presented in previous GAR analysis
(left: economic losses; right: education facilities)

(Source: UNISDR, based on DesInventar)

74

Part I - Chapter 4

4.3

				
Hidden risk layers

A newly applied methodology to evaluate direct loss and damage from extensive disaster
events allows extensive risk to be expressed as
a loss exceedance curve. This enables countries
to develop a more complete analysis of risk and
of their contingent liabilities associated with disasters.

provides information on largely extensive risks with
return periods of up to approximately 30 years but
does not capture intensive risks with longer return
periods. Similarly, the analytical curve estimated using a probabilistic risk model does not capture
much of the extensive risk with shorter return periods. The hybrid curve captures both.

Extensive risks are rarely recorded, and therefore
not taken into account in national risk assessments,
which usually only focus on intensive risks. GAR11
(UNISDR, 2011) presented a new hybrid loss exceedance curve as a way of combining and measuring
both extensive and intensive risks at the country
level. Additional hybrid curves have now been developed for eight Latin American countries.iii

Figure 4.8, based on hybrid loss exceedance curves
for ten Latin American countries (CIMNE et al., 2013b ;
ERN-AL, 2011), highlights the annual average loss
(AAL) that would be expected from all disasters,
intensive and extensive, both in absolute terms
and expressed as a percentage of gross fixed capital
formation (GFCF). Although Mexico has the highest
probable AAL in absolute terms, in relative terms,
Honduras stands to lose more than 12 percent of
its gross fixed capital formation every year owing
to direct disaster losses.

Figure 4.7 shows the hybrid curve for Guatemala.
The empirical curve, based on historical loss data,

This kind of information is valuable to inform investments in disaster risk reduction. Often, the costs of

Figure 4.7 Hybrid loss exceedance curve for Guatemala

(Source: UNISDR, adapted from CIMNE et al., 2013b)

75

Figure 4.8 Absolute AAL (left) and AAL relative to GFCF (right), both calculated from the hybrid risk models of selected countries

(Source: UNISDR, adapted from CIMNE et al., 2013b)

extensive disasters are not fully absorbed by government, insurance or international assistance.
Parts of these losses are absorbed directly by lowincome rural and urban households but also by
SMEs and businesses in the informal sector. Unless
these losses are made visible and their fiscal impact
understood, it is difficult to justify increased public
sector investments in safe and resilient infrastructure. If indirect losses to business from extensive
risks could be measured, then the private sector
may become a key advocate for increased public
sector investment.
Notes
i	 Rural populations are defined here using an Index of Rurality
based on population density and the distance between smaller rural and larger urban centres (UNDP, 2011: Colombia Human Development Report).
ii	 The new countries are Djibouti, East Timor, Ethiopia, Guyana,
Jamaica, Kenya, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Mali,
Nicaragua, Sri Lanka, Uganda, Uruguay, Viet Nam, plus 22 countries that have developed a joint Pacific islands regional loss database: American Samoa; Cook Islands; Fiji; French Polynesia; Guam;
Kiribati; Marshall Islands; Micronesia, Federated States of; Nauru;
New Caledonia; Niue; Northern Mariana Islands; Palau; Papua New
Guinea; Pitcairn Islands; Samoa; Solomon Islands; Tokelau; Tonga;
Tuvalu; Vanuatu; Wallis and Futuna Islands.
iii	 Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Costa Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador,
Guatemala, Honduras, Peru and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of).

76

Part I - Chapter 4

Chapter 5

The Resilience Challenge

77

Business investments are made taking into account a variety of risks, including disaster risk. However, while immediate risks to assets and operations may be considered, it is equally important for
investors to be aware of the economic resilience of the country they are investing in.
Businesses are more likely to recover faster in a country where governments have the capacity to
invest in recovery or where they have risk financing measures in place that cover most contingencies.
Major losses can challenge the macroeconomic stability of even high-income countries. Given that
macroeconomic stability is considered a basic requirement of a country’s competitiveness, countries
need to recognise the potential macroeconomic implications of disasters. Currently, some countries
that can least afford to lose investment stand to suffer the highest disaster losses.
High losses and potential fiscal gaps can result in cumulative macroeconomic effects over time with
severe implications for a country’s long-term economic and fiscal resilience.

5.1

				
Threats to economic resilience

Direct losses from major disasters trigger indirect
losses and wider impacts that can challenge the
macroeconomic stability of even high-income
countries. A country wishing to promote its competitiveness and strengthen economic sustainability should recognise the potentially significant macroeconomic implications of disasters.

Risk refers to the probability of a given magnitude
of loss in a given period of time. Resilience refers to
the capacity of a country’s economy to absorb
losses and recover. How quickly an economy recovers and how quickly a business recovers are
clearly interrelated. But businesses are more likely
to recover faster in a country where governments
have the capacity to invest in recovery or where
they have risk financing measures in place that
cover most contingencies.

Figure 5.1 Reported disaster losses and GFCF in Mozambique, 1993–2011

(Source: UNISDR, based on national disaster loss data bases, EMDAT and World Bank indicators)

78

Part I - Chapter 5

Figure 5.2 Annual average losses from earthquakes (top) and cyclonic winds (bottom) compared with gross fixed capital formation

(Source: UNISDR, based on GAR global risk model)

79

Box 5.1 Estimating a government’s direct burden

The GAR13 model also takes into account losses to produced capital stock under government responsibility.
These include government buildings and public structures as well as housing for low-income communities.
These types of losses are here defined as ‘fiscal losses’, as they represent the sovereign or fiscal risk of a government in case of a disaster. They are calculated as part of total annual average losses to buildings, both public
and privateii .
As infrastructure replacement costs are likely to constitute an important part of a government’s direct burden,
fiscal losses presented here are likely to be underestimated. Nevertheless, they provide an important reference
for governments. For example, fiscal losses from a 1 in 250 years return period earthquake can amount to more
than US$9 billion for the Philippines and US$3 billion for Colombia. China and Mexico both face fiscal losses
from earthquakes of about US$4 billion, whereas fiscal losses from cyclonic wind damage would amount to
US$17 billion for China and more than US$13 billion for Mexico.
The scale of these losses is better understood when comparing them with national or government revenue, i.e.
a country’s income from taxes and non-tax sources. National revenue can be seen as a proxy for a country’s
ability to buffer losses. Figure 5.3 shows probable maximum fiscal losses from earthquakes compared with
national revenue. In the case of the Philippines, losses amount to about 27 percent of government revenue,
whereas for the Dominican Republic and Bhutan, probable maximum fiscal losses may exceed 13 percent of
their revenue. The Philippines displays an equally significant fiscal vulnerability to wind damage, highlighting
how losses can easily exceed government revenue, potentially resulting in an increased debt burden.

Figure 5.3 Fiscal probable maximum losses (PML) from earthquakes with a 250 years return period compared with
national revenue

(Source: UNISDR, based on GAR global risk model and World Bank dataiii)

(Source: UNISDR)

80

Part I - Chapter 5

A first approach to resilience is to look at a country’s
capacity to invest. Gross fixed capital formation
(GFCF) is a metric that represents annual public and
private investment in a country.i

Table 5.1 Estimated contingent liabilities for the Government of
Colombia

Some countries that can least afford to lose investment are losing the most. For example, in Mozambique, the value of annual reported disaster losses
surpassed GFCF three times during the period 1993–
2011. In each episode, investment not only slowed
down in the country but actually reversed. In 2011,
this value represented 12 percent of Mozambique’s
capital formation, in El Salvador, 8 percent; and in
both Honduras and Nicaragua, about 6 percent.
Figure 5.2 below highlights the proportion of GFCF
at risk from both earthquakes and cyclonic winds.
When annual average losses (AAL) represent a high
proportion of GFCF, this implies that it will take longer for lost capital to be replaced by new investment
and thus recovery slower.
For example, Japan not only has a high absolute AAL,
this also represents a high proportion of its total GFCF.
This means that losses cannot be easily replaced by
the formation of new capital stock. In general, countries with sluggish growth and investment will find it
more difficult to replace lost capital stock. In these
countries, to protect economic growth, investment in
disaster risk reduction is extremely important.
In contrast, countries such as the United States of
America or China, which also have high absolute
levels of AAL, have much higher rates of capital formation. This means that they will be able to replace lost capital more quickly and have a shorter
recovery time.
A second approach to economic resilience is to estimate fiscal losses, which are disaster losses that
governments are responsible for. As Box 5.1 shows,
these losses can challenge the macroeconomic stability of even high-income countries. Macroeconomic stability is considered a basic requirement of
a country’s competitiveness (WEF, 2012); countries

(Source: Government of Mexico and World Bank, 2012)

therefore need to recognise the potential macroeconomic implications of disasters.

5.2

				
The financing gap

A country’s economic resilience depends to an
important extent on whether a government is
able to absorb losses. Assessing the fiscal capacity of a country is therefore critical to knowing whether it will be in the position to provide
timely relief, invest in the required reconstruction and buffer economic downturns to avoid
major and long-term macroeconomic impacts.
Economic resilience also depends on whether a
government is able to finance recovery and reconstruction through a broad array of public and private mechanisms, including budget reallocations,
tax increases, reserves, domestic or external borrowing, international assistance, insurance and reinsurance payouts, and market mechanisms such as
catastrophe-linked securities (Mechler et al., 2006).
81

The scale of a government’s fiscal deficit or financing gap following a disaster depends on how explicit and implicit the liabilities of governments are
defined. The Government of Colombia, for example, has recognised this, and has embarked on an
ambitious effort to fully assess contingent liabilities arising from disaster risk (see Chapter 15 of this
report)—this initiative is part of its overall management strategy for government contingent liabilities
(Government of Mexico and World Bank, 2012).
Basing its analysis of liability on GAR11’s examination of Colombia’s probable maximum losses from

disasters (UNISDR, 2011), the government has found
that disasters associated with natural hazards are
the second most important source of its contingent
liabilities, after those associated with legal proceedings (see Table 5.1).
Based on this analysis, the Colombian Government’s new disaster risk financing strategy will
include risk transfer solutions for potentially affected infrastructure and low-income housing as
well as a strong retention strategy via reserve
funds (Government of Mexico and World Bank,
2012).

Table 5.2 Liabilities of a national government (items that can be related to risk from physical hazard appear in red)

(Source: Mechler et al., 2009)

Figure 5.4 Loss exceedance curve for Honduras

(Source: UNISDR, adapted from CIMNE et al., 2013b)

82

Part I - Chapter 5

Figure 5.5 Fiscal vulnerability of Honduras to disaster loss

(Source: Hochrainer et al., 2013)

In many countries, following a disaster, implicit liabilities bring uncertainty to the national account
when reconstruction and disaster relief expenditure have to be accommodated (see highlights in
Table 5.2). For example, many governments act implicitly as ‘insurers of last resort’ for low-income
households even if this responsibility is rarely enshrined in law.
This kind of ad hoc compensation provides disincentives for risk reduction. Worse, ‘compensation
inflation’ can occur when households expect at
least the same level of compensation as provided in
previous disasters, which increases the government’s fiscal burden (World Bank, 2012b). Establishing an ex-ante legal framework is needed to decrease the level of fiscal uncertainty and ensure
clear incentives for risk reduction.
Based on different risk metrics and criteria for
measuring government fiscal capacity, a number
of examples illustrate the potential scale of these
financing gaps.
In Honduras, analysis based on results from a hybrid loss exceedance curve (see Chapter 4 of this

report) shows significant losses even from frequently recurring events (Figure 5. 4).
These results enabled an analysis of anticipated relief obligations of the government and its available
sources of funding, illustrating the financial vulnerability of the Honduran Government to disaster risk
(Figure 5.5).
The analysis shows that the government depends
largely on traditional sources to cover for losses
from frequently occurring small to medium-sized
floods and storms (Hochrainer et al., 2013). However, for events with a relatively low return period
of one-in-33 years, the government would still face
a significant financing gap with potentially significant economic development setbacks, rendering it
unable to provide timely relief and reconstruction
efforts (Ibid.).
Another case in point is Madagascar, where a financing gap would appear from any event more
severe than a one-in-23 year cyclone (Figure 5.6).
And losses from one-in 100 year events could
cause financing gaps of almost US$1 billion (Hochrainer, 2012). These estimations were based on
83

optimistic scenarios of resource availability; other
scenarios showed that the Government of Madagascar would be challenged to cover losses from even
annual events (Ibid.).
This information is useful in two ways. First, it indicates what scale of disaster would exhaust and exceed a country’s domestic resources (taxes and
budget diversion) and external resources (largely

new debt). Second, based on the analysis of impacts from disasters for selected return periods,
such as a one-in-100 year event, information on the
monetary scale of resources and gaps can be used
to develop risk financing instruments and negotiate
appropriate premiums.
The Inter-American Development Bank’s disaster
deficit index (DDI) highlights resource implications

Figure 5.6 The fiscal gap for cyclone exposure in Madagascar

(Source: Hochrainer, 2012)

Figure 5.7 Countries’ ability to absorb the losses of a one-in-100 year event (2008 data)

(Source: UNISDR, based on IADB, 2010 ERN-AL, 2011 and CIMNE et al., 2013b)

84

Part I - Chapter 5

Figure 5.8 Financing the deficit from disasters in the Philippines (in billions of Pesos)

(Source: Jose, 2012)

of major disasters in eight countries in Latin America
and the Caribbean. The DDI captures the ratio of resource demands incurred by disasters to a country’s
availability of funds to cover these demands.
Figure 5.7 shows the results in the case of a onein-100 year disaster, with any value above 1 on the
DDI indicating a financing gap. For example, the DDI
indicates that despite an estimated PML of more
than US$4 billion, Mexico is well positioned to cover
these losses with available resources. In contrast,
Honduras would be seriously challenged in spite of
a much smaller PML.

one-in-20 year event, and that gap would be greater than US$2 billion (Figure 5.9).

Figure 5.9 Fiscal vulnerability and financing gap for earthquake
and flood risk in Nepal

The Philippines also has consistently experienced
financing gaps owing to disasters since 2000 (Figure
5.8). Although the Philippines has financed part of
those gap by domestic and foreign credit, in many
countries, sovereign risks are likely to limit borrowing capacity.
The fiscal gap may be even greater in the case of
low-income countries and others with high debts
and a constrained fiscal space. Nepal, for example,
would be unable to finance the costs of even a

(Source: Mechler et al., 2013)

85

5.3

			
Macroeconomic effects

Disasters can negatively impact the economic
development of any country, but for smaller
economies that are heavily dependent on single
economic sectors, these impacts are likely pervasive. Direct and indirect losses can result in
macroeconomic effects that cumulate over time.
Although countries with fiscal gaps may have more
difficulty recovering after a disaster, there is less certainty regarding longer-term macroeconomic impacts (World Bank, 2011). Some studies show that
disasters have no long-term effect on economic
performance or, on the contrary, either owing to
Figure 5.10 Simulations of GDP growth and tropical cyclone exposure

(Source: Hsiang and Jina, 2012)

86

Part I - Chapter 5

inflows of resources for reconstruction or to the creative destruction of obsolete capital, may even contribute positively to the economy (Albala-Bertrand,
1993 and 2006; Skidmore and Toya, 2002). Reconstruction spending may give demand-lacking economies a temporary boost.
However, while these positive effects may be possible in competitive and resilient economies with high
levels of GFCF and without financing gaps, this is
less likely in countries with low levels of GFCF and
with large gaps. Numerous studies indicate that disasters tend to impact negatively on economic development (Mechler 2004; Hochrainer, 2009; Crespo
Cuaresma et al., 2008; Noy, 2009). In general, larger
and more diversified economies are likely to be

Figure 5.11 Simulation for Pakistan (IDRR = investment in disaster risk reduction)

(Source: Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA))iv

more resilient than smaller economies, heavily dependent on single economic sectors (UNISDR, 2009
and 2011; Gencer, 2012). In less resilient economies,
the wider impacts of disasters are more likely to be
pervasive.

of economic growth projections shows that although real GDP growth would be impacted by a
major disaster event, investments in disaster risk
reduction could significantly curtail this impact
(Figure 5.11).

Although further research is required to reconcile
the results from different economic models, recent
studies show that in the medium (Hochrainer, 2009)
or long term (Hsiang and Jina, 2012), countries that
have experienced intensive disasters may never recover this lost growth. For example, countries affected by tropical cyclones experience lower GDP
growth in the 15 years that follow compared with
the estimated growth that would have occurred
without cyclone impacts. In countries with frequent
severe cyclones—such as Madagascar and the Philippines—and large fiscal gaps, growth will be lower
over several decades (see Figure 5.10). Countries
with less frequent and severe cyclones—such India
or the United States of America—also experience
lower growth, but the divergence is far less.

The impacts of disasters on economic growth over
time can be understood when assessing potential
mid- to long-term macroeconomic impacts. In
Honduras, a one-in 100 year event could produce
direct losses amounting to 33 percent of its GDP.
Given its limited ability to finance this loss, the government also would have to prepare for further cumulative consequences over time, estimated at up
to almost 24 percent of GDP over a period of 5
years (Figure 5.12).

New simulations of the impact of disaster risk reduction measures on economic growth also show
useful results. In Pakistan, for example, an analysis

Currently, national accounting does not adequately
measure disaster impacts. On the contrary, accounting systems usually report reconstruction and
relief spending, adding to GDP figures. Disaster risk
may be included in new approaches to wealth accounting at the national level such as adjusted
savings,v to improve risk management and financing
strategies in the future (Mechler, 2009).

87

Figure 5.12 Modelled cumulative macroeconomic effects of
disasters in Honduras

ated States of), Monaco, Montenegro, Myanmar, Georgia, Ghana,
Gambia, Guinea-Bissau, Greece, Guatemala, Hong Kong Special
Administrative Region of China, Honduras, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Italy, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Libya, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Latvia, Mexico, Mali, Mongolia, Mozambique,
Malawi, Malaysia, Namibia, New Caledonia, Niger, Nicaragua, Nepal,
Oman, Panama, Palau, Papua New Guinea, Puerto Rico, Paraguay,
Réunion, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Samoa, Senegal,
San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Solomon Islands,
Somalia, Serbia, Spain, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Swaziland, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Turks and Caicos Islands,
Turkmenistan, Tonga, Tunisia, Turkey, Taiwan Province of China,
Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, United States
of America, United States Virgin Islands, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Vanuatu, Viet Nam, Western Sahara,
Yemen, Zimbabwe.
iv	 Information directly provided to UNISDR by JICA in support of
the 2013 Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction. The
simulations were made using JICA’s “DR2AD Model”, an economic
model that measures the social and economic impacts of disaster
risk reduction investments and allows policy-makers to evaluate
multi-index effects of these investments.

(Source: Hochrainer et al., 2013)

Businesses should be a strong proponent of such efforts as they promise a first step towards addressing
hidden fiscal risks that can directly impact on their
environment, as witnessed since the global economic crisis began in 2007. Businesses have begun
to recognise this in accounting for natural capitalvi
(WAVES, 2012), which—as discussed in the next
chapter—is critical to national wealth, but are yet to
fully embrace this as an opportunity.
Notes
i	 Countries for which no data on gross fixed capital formation
is available, and which were therefore not included in the following analysis, are: Anguilla, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, French Guiana, Guadeloupe, Martinique, Mayotte, Myanmar,
Réunion, Turks and Caicos Islands, United States Virgin Islands.
ii	 Losses to other types of assets such as road or water infrastructure are not included.
iii	 World Bank data on national revenue from: http://data.worldbank.org/indicator/GC.REV.XGRT.GD.ZS?page=1 	
Countries for which no data on revenue is available, and which
were therefore not included in the analysis, are: Aruba, Angola, Anguilla, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Antigua and Barbuda, Australia,
Belgium, Belize, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Brazil, Botswana,
British Virgin Islands, Brunei Darussalam, Burundi, Central African
Republic, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Cayman Islands, Chad, Comoros,
Congo, Cote d’Ivoire, Cuba, Czech Republic, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Djibouti,
Dominica, Ecuador, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Faeroe Islands, French Guiana, French Polynesia, Gabon, Germany, Gibraltar, Guinea, Guadeloupe, Grenada, Guyana, Haiti, Iraq,
Liechtenstein, Mauritania, Martinique, Mayotte, Micronesia (Feder-

88

Part I - Chapter 5

v	 See for example World Bank Indicators’ adjusted savings data:
http://web.worldbank.org/WBSITE/EXTERNAL/TOPICS/ENVIRONMENT/EXTEEI/0,,contentMDK:20502388~menuPK:1187778~pagePK
:148956~piPK:216618~theSitePK:408050,00.html.
vi	 http://www.wavespartnership.org/waves/private-sector%E2%
80%99s-role-recognizing-value-natural-capital-focus.

Chapter 6

Natural capital risk

89

A country´s wealth is determined to a significant extent by its stock of natural capital. Disaster
risks include the loss and erosion of natural capital with potentially serious consequences for business, households and a country’s wealth.
Globalisation is not only modifying risk patterns through increasing hazard exposure and vulnerability, but also through climate change. Along with climate change, environmental degradation, deforestation and the over-exploitation of natural resources all result in increased risks to natural capital. For example, wild-land fires now affect all continents with the cost of damage to tropical
ecosystem services alone potentially exceeding US$3 trillion per year.
Land degradation is a key driver of agricultural drought risk. Large areas of Africa, the Arab and
Mediterranean regions are experiencing both land degradation and high levels of soil moisture deficit
leading to a potentially irreversible loss of natural capital. The scale of direct losses and indirect
impacts from agricultural drought is still poorly understood but potentially significant. But innovative new probabilistic models of agricultural drought risk are now providing a clearer picture of
potential crop losses at the country level and can be related to relevant economic indicators.

6.1

				
Natural wealth

A country’s wealth is also dependent on its stock
of natural capital. A country with a declining
base of natural capital is unlikely to achieve a
sustainable increase in wealth.
Natural capital is understood as a set of renewable
and non-renewable natural resources, including agricultural land, fisheries, fossil fuels, forest resources,
water, biodiversity and minerals. Apart from flows
into produced capital, business investment also flows
into other sectors, such as agribusiness, forestry and
mining, in countries with abundant natural capital.
Whether these investments pose risks to natural capital needs to be assessed and understood.
Risks associated with natural capital may affect
businesses as well as other social sectors in the
same way as disaster risks associated with produced capital. With natural capital, many risks generated through business investments are externalised and transferred through mechanisms such
as climate change, land degradation and the overexploitation of water resources; in the long term,
these become shared risks not only in space but in
90

Part I - Chapter 6

time because the exhaustion of natural capital compromises the wealth of future generations.
However, although risks to produced capital are
now modelled with increasing accuracy, the estimation of natural capital risks is still in its infancy. As
such, both costs to business as well as shared risks
are rarely factored into investment decisions. The
sections that follow will explore some of the drivers
of natural capital risk, including climate change,
land degradation, and the impact of wild-land fires
and agricultural droughts. Chapter 10 in Part II of
this report will build on this analysis and explore the
role of agribusiness in food security risk.

Global warming

6.2

The ultimate risk transfer:
global climate change

Globalisation is not only modifying risk patterns through increasing hazard exposure and
vulnerability, but also through climate change.
Since the beginning of the industrial revolution in
1750, the atmospheric abundance of the three

principal greenhouse gases—carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide—have increased by 39 percent,
158 percent and 20 percent, respectively (WMO,
2011).
As Box 6.1 shows, increasing greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere modifies climate, although uncertainties remain regarding the repercussions in weather and climate-related hazards in
different regions (IPCC, 2012).
Increased combustion of fossil fuels, deforestation
and land-use changes are directly linked to the
capital flows and investment decisions of the past
and to growing green-house gas emissions in the
present and future. Industry contributes directly
and indirectly about 37 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions, and these have increased by
65 percent since 1971 (Worrell et al., 2009). Production of energy-intensive industrial goods, in particular, has increased dramatically since 1970 (cement, by 336 percent; aluminium, by 252 percent;
steel, by 95 percent; ammonia, by 353 percent; and
paper, by 190 percent) (Ibid.). But emissions from

energy production, transport, agriculture and urbanisation are also critical. And as this chapter
highlights, other factors such as wild-land fires,
which are often associated with deforestation,
also make critical contributions.
For more than a century, high-income countries
have been contributing to these emissions. However, as a consequence of economic globalisation,
many low and middle-income countries are now
becoming large greenhouse gas (GHG) emitters.
Given that climate change modifies climate and
weather-related hazards, it becomes the ultimate
mechanism of global risk transfer and of generating shared risks. It represents the privatisation of
benefits that accrue from present investment at
the expense of future losses that will surface from
climate change later in this century. It also represents a transfer or export of disaster risk from
countries responsible for the majority of emissions
to those that have fewer emissions but will see
their disaster risks increase. Figure 6.1 compares
the ratio of GHG emissions with expected losses
from cyclonic wind damage. Many countries with

Box 6.1 Special IPCC Report appraises and addresses future climate extremes

The Special Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change presented the latest results from current
research on climate change. The more science progresses in the field, the more it is possible to produce analysis
that can delineate future climate patterns with higher degrees of confidence. Main conclusions of the report include the following:
Virtually certain 	

Substantial warming in temperature extremes by the end of the 21st 	century.

Very likely 	

Mean sea level rise will contribute to upward trends in extreme coastal, high water levels.

Likely 	
	
	

Increased frequency of heavy precipitation or the proportion of total rainfall from heavy 	
falls will increase in the 21st century over many areas of the globe. 			
Increase in tropical cyclone maximum wind speed, though not in all ocean basins.

High confidence 	
	
	
	

Changes in heat waves, glacial retreat and/or permafrost degradation will affect high 	
mountain phenomena such as slope instabilities, movements of mass and glacial lake 	
outburst floods. Many glacier- and snow-fed rivers will experience increased run-off and 	
earlier spring peak discharge.

Medium confidence 	 Reduction in the number of extra-tropical cyclones averaged over each hemisphere. 	
	
Droughts will intensify in some regions, including southern Europe and the		
	
Mediterranean, central Europe, Central North America, Central America, Mexico, 	
	north-east Brazil and southern Africa.

(Source: IPCC, 2012)

91

Figure 6.1 Losses from cyclonic wind compared with greenhouse gas emissions

(Source: UNISDR, based on World Resources Institute (*)i)

low emissions will also face high costs from sea
level rise.
Today, a familiar tendency is to assign the causality
of all weather-related impacts to climate change.
In reality, at least over the next two to three decades, increasing hazard exposure and vulnerability associated with economic and urban development will have a greater influence on disaster risk
than climate change (IPCC, 2012; UNISDR, 2009
and 2011; Nicholls et al., 2008; Swiss Re., 2011a).
Climate change will have a disproportionate influence on economies most susceptible to weatherrelated risks, however (IPCC, 2007). Many of these
countries depend heavily on climate-sensitive natural capital, such as land, water and forests.
One climate change outcome, which the IPCC has
agreed is certain, is increased warming. In regions
that may also experience decreased precipitation,
warming will increase the likelihood of wild-land
fires and agricultural drought, which feed back into
climate change.
92

Part I - Chapter 6

6.3

			
Unsustainable risks

Environmental degradation, deforestation and
overexploitation of natural resources all result
in increased risks to natural capital. The negative impacts of weather-related disasters further erode the natural capital base of nations,
reducing their overall wealth and competitiveness.
There is growing interest in quantifying the value of
natural capital and the consequences of its loss to
national economies.ii The wealth of a country is the
sum of produced, human and natural capital. As human capital increases, although total wealth increases, natural capital is likely to be depleted and
thus wealth per capita can decrease. The persistence of environmental degradation and natural resource depletion, therefore, is an environmental as
well as a social and economic concern. Figure 6.2
highlights countries that are challenged to address
environmental degradation.

Loss of natural capital owing to environmental
degradation and other factors is particularly critical in countries whose natural resources provide a
higher contribution to the overall wealth than their
produced capital (UNU-IHDP and UNEP, 2012). In
Nigeria, for example, the value of natural capital is

estimated to be more than 10 times that of produced capital.iv Between 1990 and 2008, Nigeria’s
population increased by 74 percent while its natural capital decreased by about 1 percent. As a result, total wealth per capita fell by about 30 percent (Figure 6.3).

Figure 6.2 State of global environmental degradation based on the Risk Reduction Index 2012iii

(Source: DARA, 2012)

Figure 6.3 Role of natural capital (purple line) in Nigerian wealth, represented by the inclusive wealth index, absolute (left) and per capita (right)

(Source: UNISDR, based on data from UNU-IHDP and UNEP, 2012)

93

Table 6.1 Changes in land-use in Colombia between 1995 and 2009 (in ha)

(Source: OSSO, 2012c)

In the same period, the value of natural capital in
Australia fell by 8 percent in absolute terms and by
72 percent per capita. Given that produced capital
per capita increased by 73 percent during this period, the depletion of natural capital did not affect
total wealth, which increased by 2 percent per capita. However, the capacity of produced capital
growth to absorb the loss in natural capital may
not be sustainable in the longer term (UNU-IHDP
and UNEP, 2012).
The depletion of natural capital may be accelerated by business investments into extractive activities—such as mining, gas and oil extraction—and
agribusiness; driven by demand for raw materials
and energy by rapidly expanding and urbanising
economies and for food supply by a growing urban
population.
In the case of Colombia, for example, Table 6.1
shows that between 1995 and 2009, Colombia lost
about 20 percent of its agricultural land and 16
percent of its forests, but rangelands increased by
29 percent (OSSO, 2012c). Only 53 percent of rangelands are considered apt for grazing. At the same
time, between 2002 and 2010, mining concessions
increased from 1.13 million hectares to 8.5 million
hectares, an area now greater than that dedicated
to either agriculture or forests.
Business investments in areas such as bio-fuels,
timber and agribusiness, and those involving the
clearing of tropical forest, may increase wild-land
fire hazard. These fires lead to a major depletion of
natural capital and the loss of critical shared
94

Part I - Chapter 6

ecosystem services as discussed below. Agribusiness investments in drought-prone areas may similarly contribute to increased land degradation and
over-exploitation of water resources—an issue explored in more detail in Chapter 10 of this report.

6.4

Wild-land fires
				
Wild-land fires

Wild-land fires are both a driver and a result of
the degradation of natural capital. The risk of
wild-land fires affects all continents with increasing occurrence particularly in the western
United States of America, south-east Australia
and southern Europe. The global cost of damage to ecosystems services may reach US$190
billion per year, in the case of tropical ecosystems alone.
In many ecosystems, wild-land fires are a natural
and essential force in maintaining ecosystem structure and productivity or an important land management tool. However, wild-land fires can be highly
damaging events, and are associated with a range
of drivers, both physical and artificial.
Using two different global datasetsv, the average
global burnt area as detected by satellite sensors
fluctuates between 3 million km2 and 4.5 million
km2, an area equivalent to the size of India and Pakistan combined (Chatenoux and Peduzzi, 2013). Figure 6.4 shows that wild-land fires affect all continents seasonally. In recent years the extent of burnt

Figure 6.4 Wild-land fire seasons, 2000–2006

(Source: Chatenoux and Peduzzi, 2013)

areas in regions such as the western United States
of America, south-east Australia and southern Europe has risen dramatically (GFMC, 2012).
Physical factors, such as climate variability and topography, influence the patterns and variability of
wild-land fires in regions. These factors include temperatures, precipitation levels and distribution as
well as length of dry periods (Aldersley et al., 2011).
Wild-land fire hazard is influenced by climatic extremes—in 2012, the northern hemisphere was hit
by a heat wave that contributed substantially to
wild-fires, especially in Europe and the United
States of America.
As with other hazards, however, social and economic drivers have as much or more influence, especially
on the initiation and extension of wild-land fires: for
example, land-use changes such as the abandonment of agricultural land owing to rural to urban migration or the conversion of forests to rangeland.
Other factors, such as fire-suppression policies, reduce fire activity in the short term but may lead to a

greater incidence of catastrophic fire in the long
term. These factors vary from region to region.
In equatorial Asia, for example, fire is widely employed to convert land covered by primary or secondary forests to other uses, especially for bio-fuel
crops. This practice, exacerbated by extended dry
periods associated with ENSO episodes, favours the
uncontrolled spread of wild-land fires (Goldhammer, 2009).
Fires have traditionally been used to clear forests in
tropical regions. However, as population density
has increased, this practice has become an increasing source of uncontrolled wild-land fires. In addition, uncontrolled selective logging, in which only
some species are removed, leave the remaining forest highly susceptible to fire (Chocraine, 2003).
In southern Europe, the hot and dry summer climate, characterised by strong seasonal winds, exacerbates human-induced fires initiated for different reasons. Contributing factors include the
95

Box 6.2 Methodology to quantify economic losses to ecosystem services from wild-land fires

This first estimation, developed using the TEEB methodology, is based on an evaluation of ecosystem services
that includes: carbon storage, production of oxygen (O2), production of biomass (used for timber, fire wood,
building, and so on), recreational value, intrinsic and support to biodiversity, protection of water sources, reduction of soil erosion, production of pharmaceutical products, beauty (landscape) and spiritual values. Forests also contribute to the local climate.
Not all ecosystem services were evaluated. Furthermore, while the value of a tonne of carbon storage is comparable across the globe, this is not the case for recreational values. Finally, it is difficult to include benefits of
wild-land fires into the equation as well as to differentiate wild-land fires that are natural from human cause.
(Source: Chatenoux and Peduzzi, 2013)

Table 6.2 Loss of natural capital (2002-2006) and wealth of countries (1995-2005)

(Source: Rank and economical losses (Chatenoux and Peduzzi, 2013); natural capital and wealth growth rate (World Bank, 2011))

abandonment of agricultural land (leaving the land
populated with highly inflammable species of vegetation), lack of forest management and growth of
urban areas in proximity of forests and in fire-prone
areas (Bassi and Kettunen, 2008).
Average annual internationally reported losses generated by wild-land fires over the past decade
(2002–2011) were US$2.4 billion (EM-DATvi). Individual fires may cause substantial losses. For example,
in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a single fire in September 2012 caused about US$83 million in damages
(WMO, 2012). However, globally, wild-land fires represent only 0.1 percent of internationally reported
disaster mortality and less than 1.9 percent of economic losses.
Wild-land fires, however, have a devastating impact
on natural capital, which has not been quantified or
96

Part I - Chapter 6

adequately accounted for. Fires affect numerous
ecosystem services including carbon storage, support to biodiversity, protection of water sources, reduction of soil erosion and land degradation and
climate regulation. At the same time, in some ecosystems, wild-land fires provide benefits; for instance, there are species that need fires for their reproduction and seeding. Fires of natural origins, for
example, ignited by lightning, are an integral part of
certain ecosystems such as boreal forests.
Economists and scientists today agree that qualifying and quantifying ecosystem services lost and
their economic value is still an incipient issue
fraught with calculation uncertainties. As Box 6.2
highlights, despite gaps in knowledge and data and
methodological challenges, a first estimation for
tropical ecosystems based on an evaluation of different ecosystem services was developed using the

methodology proposed by TEEB (The Economics of
Ecosystems and Biodiversity; TEEB, 2010).
Fires do not belong naturally to tropical forest ecosystems. However, wild-land fires may now be
leading to a loss of ecosystem services in the range
of US$146–US$191 billion per year.vii Given that
tropical ecosystem services may take 40 or more
years to recover, cumulative annual losses could
be as high as US$2.9–US$3.8 trillion. These losses—between US$2.5 and US$3.5 trillion a year—
are concentrated in Africa (Chatenoux and Peduzzi, 2013). These figures should be treated with
caution given the uncertainties involved in their
assessment, but they highlight a potential and critical depletion of natural capital from wild-land
fires in tropical forest ecosystems.
As Table 6.2 shows, many of the countries with the
highest losses in ecosystem services rely on natural
capital for most of their total wealth. Similarly, some

had slow rates of wealth growth between 1995 and
2005 (World Bank, 2011). These losses to natural
capital are rarely taken into account when investment decisions are made.

6.5

Agricultural drought: the case
of Africa, the Arab states and _
the Mediterranean
Observed and predicted changes in rainfall and
temperature have important implications for
agriculture. In central Kenya, decreases in rainfall could reach up to 150 mm per year. Combined with increasing temperature, agricultural
drought hazard is predicted to increase, which
will reduce the area of arable land.
As highlighted in GAR11, agricultural drought hazard is not only due to lack of rainfall. Estimations
of meteorological drought, therefore, are a poor

Figure 6.5 Drought typologies and cascading impacts

(Source: National Drought Mitigation Center, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, United States of Americaix)

97

guide to drought impacts on agriculture.
As Figure 6.5 shows, agricultural drought refers to the
availability of sufficient water in the soil to satisfy the
needs of crops.viii Agricultural drought, therefore, is
mediated by other factors such as temperature and
wind, which influence evaporation and transpiration
and the capacity of the soil to hold moisture.
In Africa, the Arab states and the Mediterranean, agricultural drought is a major hazard. Without taking
into account its potential impact on natural capital
and on economies in the region, any estimation of
disaster risk is fundamentally incomplete.

and the Sahel, measured through an index that also
takes into account drought frequency, extent and
persistence in that 10-year period.xi
Mediterranean countries have been particularly affected between 2000 and 2010. In Turkey, about 25
percent of total rain-fed cropland (which constitutes
about 15 percent of total country territory) has been
affected by severe drought; in Italy, Serbia and
Macedonia, 20 percent of total rain-fed cropland has
been affected. In Portugal, Spain and Greece, more
than 25 percent of the rangeland is heavily affected
by drought. This corresponds, respectively, to 15
percent, 10 percent, and 8 percent of total land in
these countries (Erian et al., 2012).

Box 6.3 presents two different but complementary
approaches being pursued to improve the characterisation of agricultural drought risk (Erian et al.,
2012; Jayanthi and Husak, 2012). The models include crop losses and economic environmental impacts. But the impacts on welfare and livelihoods
have not been estimated at this time.

Scientific literature (IPCC, 2007 and 2012) agrees
that all categories of drought hazard in the Mediterranean region will get worse as the region gets drier
and warmer. However, in Africa, there is only medium to low confidence owing to a lack of documented evidence and data (IPCC, 2012).

Analysis of changes in vegetation coverx between 2000
and 2010 highlights that a large area of Africa, the Arab
states and the Mediterranean has experienced drought
(Erian et al., 2012). Figure 6.6, for example, illustrates
agricultural drought intensity in the Horn of Africa

In Eastern Africa, other studies highlight long-term
decline in rainfall and increasing temperature,
such as in parts of Ethiopia, Kenya, Sudan and
Uganda, which will increase agricultural drought
hazard (Funk et al., 2010; 2012a; 2012b). Figure 6.7,

Box 6.3 Modelling agricultural drought risk

The Arab Centre for the Study of Arid Zones and Drylands (ACSAD) uses satellite data from the last 10 years to
reconstruct past agricultural droughts. It measures month by month differences in vegetation. This allows a
characterisation of the intensity, variability frequency and persistence of agricultural drought in any given area.
With this information, it is possible to identify the exposure of areas of rain-fed agriculture, rangeland, individuals and cattle to agricultural drought as well as the amount of drought-affected areas experiencing land degradation (Erian et al., 2012). For GAR13, this approach was piloted in Africa, the Arab states and the Mediterranean.
FEWSNET developed a set of synthetic droughts to extrapolate the probability of specific areas being affected
by agricultural droughts of differing intensity. Once calibrated with data on yield reductions in observed
droughts, it becomes possible to estimate the probable crop losses for droughts of different return periods as
well as expected annual average losses (Jayanthi and Husak, 2012). For GAR13, this approach was piloted in
Kenya, Malawi, Mozambique and Niger.
Both approaches are complementary—one provides an assessment of agricultural drought occurrence, consequences and severity in the past; the other enables the quantification of the expected losses that are likely to
affect a specific area in the future.

(Source: UNISDR)

98

Part I - Chapter 6

for example, highlights observed and projected
changes for Kenya between 1975 and 2025. For
central Kenya, the projected decrease in rainfall
might reach 150 mm per year, whereas temperature is estimated to increase about 0.9 degrees
Celsius (Funk et al., 2010). Increasing agricultural

drought will reduce the areas of land to support viable agricultural livelihoods.
These changes are leading to a decline of precipitation in areas that to date received sufficient
rainfall to support agriculture and a shift of rain-

Figure 6.6 Agricultural drought intensity from 2000 to 2010 in the Horn of Africa and the Sahel

(Source: Erian et al., 2012) iv

99

fall locations overall, as Figure 6.8 highlights.
Other studies point to potential changes in climate in Western Africa. For example, Mali is
considered at risk of a ‘climate zone shift’, owing

to the Sahara moving south. Because of changes
in climate, in 2030, the annual value of crop and
livestock production is likely to drop between 5
percent and 15 percent (ECA, 2009).

Figure 6.7 Observed and projected changes in rainfall and temperature from 1975 to 2025 in Kenya

(Source: Funk et al., 2010)

Figure 6.8 Climate change in Ugandaxii

(Source: Funk et al., 2012b)

100

Part I - Chapter 6

6.6

				
Land degradation

Land degradation is associated with intensive agriculture or overgrazing, and salinisation owing to
inappropriate irrigation, deforestation and the
breakdown of traditional agro-ecological systems.
Climate change may interact with some of these
factors, but is rarely the main driver of land degradation (WMO, 2005).

Land degradation has been recognised as a key
driver of agricultural drought risk. Vast areas in
Africa, the Arab and Mediterranean regions are
experiencing both land degradation and high
levels of agricultural drought. As a result, these
areas are at risk of desertification, representing an irreversible loss of natural capital.

Land degradation can increase agricultural drought
by reducing the moisture-carrying capacity of the

Figure 6.9 Drought hazard and land degradation in sub-Saharan Africa, the Arab region and the Mediterranean (main map); Horn of
Africa and Spain highlighted (bottom maps)

0

200

Kilometres

0

200

Kilometres

(Source: Erian et al., 2012)

101

soil. And soil water deficiency can further increase
land degradation through the loss of vegetation
cover. Areas that are experiencing both land degradation and high levels of soil water deficiency are
more at risk of desertification, which represents an
often irreversible loss of natural capital (Erian et al.,
2012; Watson et al., 2005; WMO, 2005).
As Figure 6.9 shows, large areas of Africa, the Arab
states and the Mediterranean region experienced
both drought hazard and land degradation between 2000 and 2010. Contrary to loss estimated
from wild-land fires, the loss of natural capital and
ecosystem services owing to drought and land
degradation has not yet been calculated.

6.7

Agricultural drought losses
and impacts

The scale of direct losses and indirect impacts
from agricultural droughts is still poorly understood. Estimated yield reductions, however,
point to significant losses. For example, a one–
in–ten year drought in Mozambique would lower
the maize yield by 6 percent and the GDP by 0.3
percent. Niger has a 1 in 10 probability of suffering a loss of more than 10 percent of expected
millet production.
The contribution of agriculture to GDP is in decline
(Yumkella et al., 2011), but agriculture continues to
be the main source of income and employment for
many households living below US$1 per day. In subSaharan Africa, for example, the agricultural share of
GDP has decreased from 42 percent in 1965 to 12
percent in 2008 (Ibid.). At the same time, agriculture
generates two-thirds of total employment and more
than 75 percent of the value of domestic trade
(Ibid.). In Ethiopia, for example, although the sector
contributes 44 percent of the country’s GDP, 85 percent of the population is employed in agriculture
(Spielman et al., 2011).

102

Part I - Chapter 6

Because of its complexity, accurate and complete
global data on crop losses from agricultural drought
do not exist. And many losses associated with localised droughts are not documented. However, the
magnitude of losses can be gauged from specific
events.
For example, direct and indirect losses from the
2008–2011 droughts in Kenya were approximately
US$12.1 billion, which are estimated to have caused
a reduction of GDP of 2.8 percent per year during
that period (Cabot Venton et al., 2012). Similarly, the
1998–2000 droughts are estimated to have caused a
16 percent reduction in GDP during each year of that
period (Ibid.).
During the 2008–2009 drought in the Syrian Arab Republic, 75 percent of farmers suffered total crop failure (Erian et al., 2012). Between 2005 and 2009, production of barley in the region fell by 40 percent.
This production failure was exacerbated by the absence of natural pasture and the doubling of feed
prices. Given that barley is the primary feed for
many cattle, this led to a reduction in livestock (FAO,
2009). Consequently, the estimated number of
sheep dropped from 22.9 million heads in 2007 to
19.2 million heads in 2008 (NAPC, 2009).
Innovative new probabilistic models of agricultural
drought risk (see Box 6.3 above) are now providing a
clearer picture of potential crop losses at the country level and can be related to relevant economic indicators. As with other hazards, a probabilistic approach is required given that many droughts that
could potentially occur have not yet done so.
In Mozambique, agriculture contributes 25 percent
of GDP (World Bank, 2011). The probabilistic model
estimates that the country risks losing, on average,
0.12 percent of its GDP every year owing to the
probable loss of 3 percent of its total maize production due to drought (Jayanthi and Husak, 2012).
A one–in–ten year drought in Mozambique would
lower the maize yield by 6 percent and GDP by 0.3
percent (Figure 6.10).

Figure 6.10 Loss exceedance curve showing Mozambique’s expected loss in maize production (in percentage) and its correspondent
probability of exceedance

(Source: Jayanthi and Husak, 2012)

Figure 6.11 Estimated likelihood of drought occurrence in Niger

(Source: Jayanthi and Husak, 2012)

103

In Niger, a 2009 drought caused the loss of approximately 410,000 metric tonnes (MT) of millet—about
13 percent of expected production (IRIN, 2010). The
probabilistic model indicates that Niger has about a
1 in 10 probability of suffering similar crop loss or
higher in any given year. Figure 6.11 represents the
probability of drought frequency for different districts in Niger.
Improved modelling of agricultural drought, together with down-scaled climate scenarios put it in a
framework that is consistent with risk estimates for
other hazards and could reduce uncertainty regarding distribution and intensity of agricultural drought
as well as its potential impacts.
A better understanding of the relationship between
drought likelihood, food production losses as well
as the wider risks to natural capital and social sectors would encourage informed investments by the
agribusiness sector and more relevant and effective
public policy decisions by governments. Together,
these two players—public and private—could be
one step ahead of damaging environmental change
by limiting the risks associated with countries’ natural capital.
Notes
i	 Data from World Resources Institute (WRI): Per Capita Emissions:
metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent (mtCO2e) per person. Additional
data: Puerto Rico, http://www.epa.gov/ttnchie1/net/2008inventory.
html; Hong Kong (Special Administrative Region China), http://
www.epd.gov.hk/epd/english/climate_change/files/HKGHG_Sectors_201009.pdf; Federal States of Micronesia, http://unfccc.int/
resource/docs/natc/micnc1.pdf.
ii	 For example, the Rio+20 Natural Capital Summit (http://www.
uncsd2012.org/index.php?page=view&type=1000&nr=450&me
nu=126) and the WAVES public-private partnership, involving 50
countries and 86 private companies (www.wavespartnership.org).
iii	 The risk reduction index (RRI) is a composite index of underlying
capacities and conditions for disaster risk reduction. The environmental degradation rankings are based on a number of proxy indicators such as air pollution, deforestation, desertification, water
contamination and water scarcity. For more information on the RRI,
please see: http://daraint.org/risk-reduction-index/.
iv	 Based on the Inclusive Wealth Index developed by UNU-IHDP
and UNEP (2012).
v	 L3JRC and MODIS MCD45. Although the two global datasets are
in agreement regarding the global evaluation of burnt areas, their

104

Part I - Chapter 6

evaluation varies significantly depending on region and ecosystems
monitored. This can be explained by the different satellite sensors
and methodology used; however, it generates uncertainties and is
something that needs to be improved in the future.
vi	 CRED data on: http://www.emdat.be/database. University of
Louvain, Belgium.
vii	 Different satellite sensors provide different quantifications of
burnt area.
viii	 Agricultural drought is a complex issue that not only depends on
rainfall, temperature or soil conditions, but also relates to the specificity of the cultivations as well as irrigation systems. Local, or at
least regional, analyses of droughts and drought risk are required to
fully understand the drivers of risk as well as the impacts of drought
events in each context. IPCC uses the term ‘soil moisture drought’
instead of ‘agricultural drought’ because soil moisture deficits have
several additional effects besides those on agro-ecosystems, most
importantly on other natural or managed ecosystems (including
both forests and pastures) (Erian et al., 2012).
ix	 http://www.drought.unl.edu/DroughtBasics/TypesofDrought.
aspx.
x	 This analysis was carried out using the normalised difference
vegetation index, as explained in Erian et al., 2012.
xi	 This figure is based on the changes in the normalised different
vegetation index (NDVI) compared with the agricultural seasons
(Erian et al., 2012).
xii	 The left map shows the average location of the March–June 500
mm rainfall isohyets for 1960–1989 (light brown), 1990–2009 (dark
brown), and 2010–2039 (predicted, orange). The green polygons in
the foreground show the main maize surplus regions; these areas
produce most of Uganda’s maize. The blue polygon in the upperright shows the Karamoja region. The right map shows analogous
changes for the June–September 500 mm rainfall isohyets

Chapter 7

Small Islands,
Big Opportunities

105

Small Island Developing States (SIDS) face high levels of disaster risk and have comparatively low
economic resilience. Most of the countries with a large proportion of their total produced capital
at risk to earthquakes, cyclone wind damage and tsunamis are SIDS. Solomon Islands, Dominica and
Vanuatu all face losses of over 30 percent of the value of their produced capital in the case of a onein-250 year earthquake.
14 of the 16 countries where wind damage from a one-in-250 year tropical cyclone would represent
more than 60 percent of annual capital formation are SIDS or recognised small island territories;
and 10 out of 13 countries in the case of earthquakes.
With small and undiversified economies, many SIDS are severely constrained to participate successfully in the global economy. But SIDS are probably the group of countries where investments in disaster risk reduction and climate change adaptation are likely to reap the greatest benefits. Investing in disaster risk reduction is most likely the best chance these countries have to attract
investment, strengthen resilience and improve competitiveness and sustainability.

7.1

				
Disaster risk in SIDS

In absolute terms, disaster risk in SIDS represents
only a small proportion of global risk. However,
because of their small size, often a very large proportion of their total produced capital is at risk to
earthquakes, tropical cyclones and tsunamis.
The United Nations recognises 38 Small Island
Developing States (SIDS) and a further 14 non-UN
member states and territories with similar characteristics in three regions: the Caribbean; the Pacific;
and the Indian Ocean.i
SIDS are highly exposed to a range of hazards. A large
part of their population lives in the Low Elevation
Coastal Zone,ii making them highly exposed to storm
surges and tsunamis. Maldives, for example, has more
than 80 percent of its population in this zone (Mahon et
al., 2012). Volcanic islands often feature relatively large,
steep river catchment systems. These have risks of significant flash flooding and debris flows.
The GAR global risk model allows the estimation of
risks for a number of these hazards, permitting a
better understanding of the levels of disaster risk
faced by SIDS.
106

Part I - Chapter 7

Given their small size, the expected annual average
losses (AAL) from earthquakes and tropical cyclone
wind damage represent respectively only 2 percent
and 1.4 percent of the global total.
However, precisely because of their small size, often
a very large proportion of their total produced capital is at risk. For example, as Figure 7.1 highlights, in
the case of a 1-in-250 year earthquake, 8 of the 10
countries that would lose the largest proportion of
the value of their urban produced capital are SIDS.
In the Solomon Islands, Dominica and Vanuatu,
between 30 percent and 50 percent of the value of
their urban produced capital would be lost.
As Figure 7.2 shows, in the case of a catastrophic
one-in-250 year cyclone, the top 10 countries in
terms of losses in relation to the value of urban produced capital are all islands, 6 of which are SIDS.
Turks and Caicos Islands, Cayman Islands and Guadeloupe could all expect to lose more than 30 percent of the value of their urban produced capital to
wind damage.
A significant proportion of their population and produced capital is also exposed to extreme tsunamis
(Figure 7.3). The 2009 tsunami that affected Samoa,

Figure 7.1 Top 10 countries in terms of AAL (left) and probable maximum loss (PML) (right) from earthquakes as a percentage of urban
produced capital

(Source: UNISDR, based on GAR global risk model)

Figure 7.2 Top 10 countries with highest AAL (left) and PML (right) from cyclonic winds

(Source: UNISDR, based on GAR global risk model)

American Samoa and Tonga in the Pacific demonstrated the kind of impacts that can be expected.
Figure 7.3 shows the exposure of population and urban produced capital to a destructive one-in-500
year tsunami. Both Solomon Islands and Maldives
have more than 25 percent of their urban produced
capital exposed to tsunamis. And Maldives has
nearly 10 percent of its population exposed.

SIDS also experience four types of flooding: flash
floods,iv river floods, coastal floods and ponding
floods. The island of Samoa, for example, has historically suffered coastal flooding. In 2008, it was
estimated that the associated AAL could be up to
US$25 million (Economics of Climate Adaptation
Working Group, 2009). Ponding flooding is a serious
hazard in some Caribbean SIDS. In these countries,
107

Figure 7.3 Absolute and relative urban produced capital (top) and population (bottom) exposed to tsunamis in SIDSiii

(Source: UNISDR, based on GAR global risk model)

Table 7.1 Annual average losses and probable maximum losses (250 years return period) from ponding flooding for selected Caribbean countries

(Source: GAR global risk model)

108

Part I - Chapter 7

floods are often associated with the accumulation
of rainfall in low-lying areas.
Table 7.1 highlights AAL associated with ponding
flooding for six Caribbean countries. Barbados has
the highest proportion of its urban produced capital
at risk, followed by Puerto Rico. In most countries,
wind damage represents a more significant risk than
ponding floods. However, in Barbados, the AAL of
ponding floods is higher than that of wind damage.
This type of flooding is particularly disruptive because it can last for several days, interrupting transport and posing health risks. Thus, although direct
losses might be low compared with other hazards,
indirect losses for local households and businesses
might be significant.

7.2

Climate change impacts on
SIDS

SIDS are among the countries that contribute
least to climate change yet stand to suffer most
from its negative impacts. Disaster losses are
projected to increase, due to sea level rise, the
increased severity of cyclones worsening water
scarcity and drought and other factors.
SIDS contribute less than 1 percent of total carbon
dioxide emissions.v But given their high exposure to
weather-related hazards, they are likely to disproportionately suffer from the magnifying effect of climate change. These effects include sea level rise
and associated flood and storm surge hazard, in-

creasing cyclonic wind intensity, erosion, saltwater
intrusion into coastal aquifers and worsening water
scarcity and drought (CCRIF, 2010; Perch-Nielsen,
2009; UNWTO and UNEP, 2008; IPCC, 2012; Simpson
et al., 2008).
For example, SIDS located in the Pacific can expect
to experience extreme events such as storm surges,
heavy rainfall, tropical cyclones, droughts and heat
waves with significant negative impacts (Australian
Bureau of Meteorology and CSIRO, 2011). In the Caribbean, changes in annual hurricane frequency and
intensity could result in additional annual losses of
US$446 million by 2080—incurred mainly from business interruption to the tourism sector (Toba, 2009).
Table 7.2 highlights likely climate change impacts on
SIDS identified by the IPCC (2012).

7.3

Disaster losses and economic
resilience

As a result of limited diversification and small
market size, the economies of many SIDS are not
resilient to disaster loss. Both estimated and observed losses represent a high proportion of annual capital formation and contribute to sluggish longer-term growth.
Disaster risks pose a serious threat to SIDS economies. Figure 7.4 shows that in the case of catastrophic earthquakes with a 250 year return period, 10 out
of the 13 countries where losses would be greater

Table 7.2 Projected changes in climate extremes for SIDS

(Source: adapted from Mahon et al., 2012 (based on IPCC, 2012))

109

than 60 per cent of their annual capital formation are
SIDS. In the case of cyclones, 13 out of 16 countries
are SIDS or recognised small island territories.
Countries with low levels of investment and high
AAL are in the long term less likely to be able to

absorb losses even from more frequent, less severe events. Many SIDS have annual average losses
from both earthquakes and cyclonic winds above 1
percent of their annual average capital formation
(Figure 7.5). For the Solomon Islands, Tonga and

Figure 7.4 Probable maximum losses from one-in-250 year earthquakes (top) and cyclonic wind damage (bottom) as a percentage of
gross fixed capital formation (SIDS highlighted in bold)

(Source: GAR global risk model)

110

Part I - Chapter 7

Trinidad and Tobago, annual average losses from
earthquakes exceeds one-tenth of annual produced capital.
The estimations of the risk model are confirmed in

some countries by observed losses. For example, in
Jamaica, observed total average losses between
1991 and 2011 were equivalent to 2.6 percent of its
gross fixed capital formation.
The effects of disaster loss are amplified in SIDS by

Figure 7.5 Annual average losses from earthquakes (top) and cyclonic winds (bottom) compared with gross fixed capital formation,
with SIDS highlighted in bold

(Source: GAR global risk model)

111

their small size, which means that hazard events
may affect their entire territory and economy, because their economies are often concentrated in
one or two sectors, and because many countries
also have high levels of indebtedness and hence
constrained fiscal space to invest. Additional common challenges include remoteness, narrow resource base, degradation of their marine and terrestrial environment and exposure to global
environmental challenges, including climate change
(UNDESA, 2010). Thirty-four SIDS have high or extreme levels of environmental vulnerability (UNEPSOPAC, 2005).
With small and undiversified economies, many SIDS
are severely constrained to participate successfully
in the global economy. Geographic distance, lower
trade and transport volumes and weak infrastructure generally mean that SIDS have higher overall
logistics and transport costs—undermining their
competitiveness. In the case of Jamaica (Figure 7.6),
for example, the impact of repeated tropical cyclones may have contributed to sluggish growth
over decades.
These challenges also present opportunities, however. Regional initiatives such as the Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility (CCRIF) and more
Figure 7.6 Impact of tropical cyclones on GDP growth in Jamaica

(Source: Hsiang and Jina, 2012)

112

Part I - Chapter 7

recently the PCRAFI (see Box 7.1) are facilitating
greater awareness of the fiscal risk posed by disasters in the Caribbean and Pacific Island SIDS; they
are also providing options for countries to reduce
their financing gap. To be effective and sustainable
in the medium term, these programmes need to be
accompanied by commensurate investments to reduce disaster risks. In providing comprehensive risk
assessments, they are also providing tools to do so.
On their own, it would be difficult for many SIDS to
address their high levels of disaster risk, low levels of
economic resilience and challenged competitiveness and sustainability. As the PCRAFI highlights,
through effective regional mechanisms, the critical
mass of technical and financial resources to reduce
disaster risk becomes more readily available.
If these resources can be mobilised, then the biggest challenge for SIDS can also be their best opportunity. From one perspective, disaster risk presents
a serious threat to these countries’ economic competitiveness. However, precisely because of this
combination of high risks and low resilience, SIDS
are probably the countries where investments in disaster risk reduction and climate change adaptation
are likely to reap the greatest benefits. Investing in
disaster risk reduction is most likely the best chance

Box 7.1 Comprehensive risk assessment in the Pacific

Based on the experience of the Caribbean Islands, the Pacific Island countries decided to set up a risk transfer
facility for the region. This gave birth to the Pacific Catastrophe Risk Assessment and Financing Initiative
(PCRAFI).vi PCRAFI provides Pacific Island countries with disaster risk modelling and assessment tools (SOPAC,
2010). It also encourages dialogue among countries on integrated financial solutions for reducing their financial
vulnerability to disasters and to climate change.
Initially, PCRAFI provided 15 countries with disaster risk assessment tools (see Figure 7.7 below). Among these
tools are regional historical hazard and loss databases; probabilistic hazard models for major hazards including
cyclones, earthquakes and tsunamis; and a comprehensive exposure database.
Fig 7.7 Map of annual average losses in Fiji

(Source: PCRAFI)

Country-specific catastrophe risk models have been developed using these tools, along with catastrophe risk
profiles (Figure 7.8).
Figure 7.8 Loss exceedance curve for Fiji

(Source: PCRAFI)

(Source: UNISDR)

113

these countries have to attract investment,
strengthen resilience and improve competitiveness
and sustainability.

Notes
i	

http://www.un.org/special-rep/ohrlls/sid/list.htm.

ii	 Defined as the continuous area along the coast that is less than
10 metres above sea level.
iii	 Exposure here is calculated by overlapping the total capital
stock and the population with the footprint of the tsunami run-up
for a return period of approximately 500 years (see Chapter 2).
iv	 Ponding flood is also referred to as ‘pluvial flood’ as it is the
type of flooding that derives from direct run-off of rainfall water
and caused by the lack (or overcharge) of a natural drainage system
(www.floodsite.net).
v	 United Nations Statistics Division’s Millennium Development
Goals Indicators: http://mdgs.un.org/unsd/mdg/SeriesDetail.aspx?
srid=749&crid=.
vi	 PCRAFI is a joint initiative of the Secretariat of the Pacific Community (SPC)/Applied Geoscience and Technology Division (SOPAC),
the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank (ADB).

114

Part I - Chapter 7

Part II

Private Investment and
Disaster Risk

117

In May 2012, earthquakes of magnitudes of up to 6.0
on the Richter scale shook the Emilia Romagna region in Italy, followed by almost 2,000 aftershocks;
the economic impacts—both immediate and downstream—unexpectedly reverberated across industries as varied as agribusiness, biotechnology, real
estate and tourism (see Box II.1).
In March of the same year—just two months before
the earthquakes—the Emilia Romagna region had
been ranked as the fifth most attractive Southern
European region and the first in Italy for business
by the Financial Times foreign investment specialist division.i But even if disaster risk had been considered, and had negatively affected the ranking,
business activity in the region may not have been
significantly lower.
Investing in hazard-prone locations rarely reflects
irrational behaviour by individual business investors. On the contrary, as highlighted in Chapter 2,
many such areas offer comparative advantages
that translate into higher productivity, profitability
and competitiveness. Multiple investments over
decades, however, have accumulated high levels of
disaster risk, which now negatively affect the very
competitiveness that investments sought in the
first place. At the same time, risks are externalised

or transferred across space and time to other locations and sectors. This ‘external risk neglect’ or
shared risk affects economic sustainability as a
whole (Berger et al., 2010).
				
Part II of this report examines whether, how and why
businesses have factored disaster risk into their investment decisions and with what consequences.
This is examined in three risk-sensitive sectors: urban
development; tourism; and agribusiness. The three
chapters reflect on the perceived trade-offs between
productivity and growth, on the one hand, and internalised and externalised risks, on the other hand,
which characterise investment in these sectors.
Chapter 8 examines investments in the urban development sector, in particular the role of speculative
investment, public regulation and major infrastructure projects in structuring-shared urban risks and
costs.
Chapter 9 focuses on the tourism sector, with particular attention to tourism in SIDS. The chapter
analyses the relative dependency of small and undiversified economies on tourism investments and
revenues. It also explores the potential economic
value of disaster risk management for businesses
and national economies invested in tourism.

Box II.1 Cost to business investment in Emilia Romagna, Italy

Emilia Romagna is one of Italy’s most productive regions, accounting for 10 percent of the country’s GDP, and
boasting one company for every ten inhabitants; most companies are small to medium-sized enterprises, but
several are also large multinational corporations, including in the biomedical sector.ii Emilia’s four most affected provinces provide almost 60 percent of the region’s employment, spread over a range of industries including
global automobile brands, pharmaceutical and biomedical plants, fashion and textiles, and construction firms
(Government of Italy, 2012). Regional food production is of national importance and was significantly affected
by the series of earthquakes that hit the region in 2011 and then again in 2012 when the quakes destroyed production facilities, and significantly affected the plants and investments of many multinational biomedical companies.iii
An in-depth economic study of the damage assessed direct losses, including losses suffered by public and private sectors, at US$11.5 billion (Government of Italy, 2012).iv One month after the May 2012 quakes, several
companies, in particular SMEs, had not yet reopened, and Italian officials estimated that about 20,000 workers
in 3,500 companies had been temporarily laid off and their jobs at risk (Aon Benfield, 2012b). The disasters also
deterred tourists from enjoying the region’s 110 km of coastline, with major hubs such as Rimini and Riccione.

(Source: UNISDR)

118

Part II

Chapter 10 looks at some of the key drivers of disaster risk within the agribusiness sector. It explores the impacts that the sector’s vulnerability to
hazards and a range of local and global pressures
have on smallholders and household food security. Identifying new approaches to creating shared
value along the agricultural value chain, the chapter focuses on sub-Saharan Africa and the specific
vulnerabilities and opportunities of the sector in
that region.
Notes
i	 http://www.investinemiliaromagna.it/wcm/investiner_en (accessed 27 February 2013).
ii	 http://www.euronews.com/2012/06/05/italy-s-earthquakeshit-economy; 	
http://www.euronews.com/2012/06/07/italian-quake-damage-estimate-grows (accessed 27 February 2013).
iii	 http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2012/jun/05/italy-emiliaromagna-earthquake (accessed 27 February 2013).
iv	 In contrast, the global disaster loss database EM-DAT reported
economic losses of less than US$16 million only, once again emphasising the staggering gap in global assessments of economic losses
associated with disasters (http://www.emdat.be).

119

Chapter 8

Urbanising Risk

121

More investment in infrastructure and the built environment will be required over the next 40
years than has occurred over the last 4 millennia. How disaster risk is addressed in the construction
and real estate development sectors is therefore going to shape the future of disaster risk reduction.
Where investments in urban development generate new risks or exacerbate existing ones, the cost of
disasters is often spread across communities and sectors. These shared costs are not well accounted for and responsibilities are not well defined. A number of disincentives work against businesses
investing in reducing disaster risk in urban development, including the promise of high profit from
speculative investment and ineffective public regulation.
Large-scale infrastructure projects and new approaches to sustainable urban development provide
opportunities for engaging private investors and the construction sector in new public-private
partnerships for resilient investment.

8.1
		

Urban development and the
future of disaster risk 		
reduction

Whether or not disaster risk is factored into investment decisions in urban development will
have a decisive influence on the future of disaster risk reduction.
The future of disaster risk reduction will be largely
played out in city regions. As highlighted in Chapter
2, investments in real estate development and infrastructure in areas exposed to earthquakes, tropical
cyclones and tsunamis have contributed to a massive increase in the hazard exposure of produced
capital in some regions, particularly in Asia. However, in many cities and countries that have successfully attracted investment in transport and energy
infrastructure, ports, airports, housing, industry
and services, investment in disaster risk reduction
and the capacities to implement have often lagged
behind.
As a consequence new patterns of intensive risk
have been produced. Worldwide, expected annual
average losses to urban produced capital, from
earthquake and cyclonic wind damage alone now
represent approximately US$180 billion per year
(see Chapter 3). At the same time, the transformation of city regions, through badly planned and
122

Part II - Chapter 8

managed urban development and environmental
modification, has generated new hazards and extensive risks that now are responsible for comparable, additional levels of loss (see Chapter 4).
Historically, much urban growth in low and middle-income countries has occurred through informal mechanisms of land acquisition, building and
infrastructure provision. Mortality aand extensive
risks are disproportionately concentrated in these
countries, where a large proportion of low-income
households lives in informal settlements in hazard-exposed areas. GAR09 and GAR11 analysed in
detail the nexus between weak urban governance,
the growth of informal settlements and the accumulation of disaster risk in low and middle-income
countries.
This chapter complements that analysis by illustrating some of the key challenges and opportunities
associated with managing disaster risk in formal
processes of urban development and infrastructure
development—not only in low and middle but also
in high-income countries.
As this chapter will highlight, at present there are
only limited incentives for businesses in the urban
development sector to invest in risk reduction.
However, there is evidence that this incentive structure may be changing. Investing in resilient and sus-

tainable urban development is becoming a compelling value proposition for business, particularly
when it is structured through partnerships with the
public sector (Global Construction Perspectives
and Oxford Economics, 2011).

8.2

				
The new wave of urbanisation

More investment in infrastructure and the built
environment will be required over the next 40
years than has occurred over the last 4 millennia. Consequently, the construction and real estate development sectors are estimated to grow
by almost 70 percent by 2020.
The world is increasingly urban.i By 2050, the
world’s urban population (including those living in
small urban centres) will represent about 70 percent of a projected global population of 9 billion.ii
The proportion of the labour force in the industry
and services sector, which has now reached 65
percent, has grown at approximately the same rate
as the urban population (Global Construction Perspectives and Oxford Economics, 2011).
The urban population of sub-Saharan Africa is expected to grow from 298 million in 2010 to 596 million in 2030 and 1,069 million in 2050 (United Nations, 2012). The urban population of India is
expected to grow from 379 million in 2010 to 606
million in 2030 and 875 million in 2050. Other regions and countries with high, expected growth include North Africa and China.

Clearly this new wave of urbanisation represents a
major business opportunity. More investment in
infrastructure and built environment will be required over the next 40 years than has occurred
over the last 4 millennia (WEF, 2012). Consequently,
the construction and real estate development sectors are estimated to grow dramatically in the next
10 years (Global Construction Perspectives and
Oxford Economics, 2011).
One estimate projects investment in urban development to increase by 67 percent—from US$7.2
trillion in 2011 to US$12 trillion by 2020iii (Global
Construction Perspectives and Oxford economics,
2011). A total of US$97.7 trillion will be spent on
construction globally during the next decade and
by 2020, construction will account for 13.2 percent
of world GDP (Ibid.).
Analysis of the commercial real estate sector also
shows that after the financial crisis of 2007–2008,
investment has bounced back to over US$400 billion globally in 2012 (Figure 8.1).
Although a huge business opportunity, this investment represents a challenge for disaster risk reduction. Much of this new urbanisation will unfold
in hazard-exposed countries such as India and in
regions with weak disaster risk management capacities, as in sub-Saharan Africa.
Figure 8.1 Direct commercial real estate investment, 2007–2012

Historically, this represents a major shift in the distribution of the world’s urban population and its
largest cities. In 1970, the urban population of Europe represented 30.5 percent of world urban population; by 2050, this figure will have dropped to 9.5
percent. In contrast, the urban population of subSaharan Africa represented only 4.1 percent of
world urban population in 1970; by 2050, it is expected to increase to 17.1 percent (Ibid.).
(Source: UNISDR, based on Jones Lang LaSalle (2013))

123

The sheer volume of investment in urban development and infrastructure expected in the coming decades means that the future of disaster risk reduction is at stake. If this investment takes place, as it
has in the past, without factoring in risk considerations, then the new wave of urbanisation will be accompanied by another wave of disaster risk accumulation. This will threaten the resilience, sustainability
and competitiveness of countries, cities and businesses alike. Conversely, if incentives and regulations
to encourage risk-sensitive investment are put in
place, the new wave of investment may become a
unique opportunity to further disaster risk reduction.

8.3

The urban
development process

Part of the disaster risks produced through investments in urban development and infrastructure are spread across communities and sectors
to become shared costs. These shared costs are
produced through large numbers of individual

public and private investment decisions and
non-decisions taken over the long term—making
it difficult to attribute responsibility.
Urban development as a business sector involves
a wide range of stakeholders. These include landowners and those who buy land and property for
speculative development; building professions
that design and supervise construction; banks, investment funds and others that finance urban development; construction and engineering businesses, which range from huge multinationals to
local building companies; the insurance industry;
utility and service providers; and public sector
bodies that are meant to plan and regulate urban
development.
As Figure 8.2 below shows, business investments in
urban development are influenced by a range of
factors and involve different stakeholders. The urban development process typically moves through
a process that includes several stages: pre-project
(developing the design brief, concept and technical

Figure 8.2 Factors that influence the production of risk in urban construction

(Source: Johnson et al., 2012)

124

Part II - Chapter 8

design of a site); pre-construction (developing proposals, tender documentation and procurement);
construction; and post-completion (including operation and maintenance).
Decisions to manage disaster risk may be taken
during any of these different phases and reflect the
interaction between stakeholders involved and
factors that influence their actions. These factors
include risk awareness; pricing of insurance; the
existence and enforcement of risk-sensitive landuse plans or building codes; and public policies to
promote growth and investment.

But ultimately, as in any other sector, trade-offs exist between the risks and costs and potential gains
and profits. For example, as discussed in Chapter
2, even risk aware businesses may decide to invest
in hazard-exposed areas with other comparative
advantages, reflecting the imperative of economic
growth and a conscious trade-off in which high
levels of return on capital are considered sufficient
to offset potential risks and losses.
In urban development, identifying these trade-offs
is complicated for many reasons. Many intensive
risks have long-return periods, meaning that for investors in urban development, the risks have low

Table 8.1 Types of risk-inducing construction practices and who bears the burden of risk

(Source: Johnson et al., 2012)

125

visibility and are downplayed. Even when they
have been assessed, the risks may be ignored given the expectation of a high short-term return on
capital. At the same time, risks are produced
through large numbers of individual public and
private investment decisions and non-decisions
taken over long periods—making it difficult to attribute responsibility, ownership or liability. While
real estate development and infrastructure projects may generate new disaster risks, these are
then transferred from developers to the ultimate
users of urban development, reducing accountability. As Table 8.1 shows, investments in urban
development and infrastructure produce shared
risks and costs for the public sector and for other
businesses and communities.

8.4
	

Speculative gain and public
regulation: the disincentives for 		
disaster risk management in real 	
estate development

In principle and in most countries, local, city or
national governments regulate investments in
urban development. However, even when disas-

ter risk considerations have been factored into
planning and regulatory frameworks, there have
been major challenges to implementation in
practice.
At present there are only limited incentives for businesses in the urban development sector to invest in
reducing disaster risks. The short-term profitability
of speculative urban development, weak or ineffective public regulatory frameworks, which rarely take
disaster risk into account; and the absence of clear
channels of responsibility and accountability for
risks and costs generated conspire against risk-sensitive investment.
Speculative investment
The first of these disincentives is represented by potential profits from short-term speculative investment in land and property. Historically, investment
in urban development has been driven as much by
the profits to be made as by demand from a growing
population and productive sector (Harvey, 1985). In
rapidly growing economies, land and property
speculation thrives. Asset prices and rents in many
economically successful urban areas have increased sharply leading to increasingly segregated

Box 8.1 Real incentives for investment of private capital in Dhaka’s real estate

The growth of Dhaka’s industry and service sectors over the last 20 years has triggered a boom in the city’s real
estate sector. For example, whereas only 30 garment-manufacturing companies existed in the country in 1980,
in 2011, the number had risen to 5,150 with many located in Dhaka. The garments sector now represents 70
percent of Bangladesh’s net exports.
However, other factors have also contributed to the real estate boom. Remittances have proved a robust
source of financing and the change from multigenerational households to nuclear families has increased demand for urban housing. An increase in rents by 250 percent from 1990 to 2007 stimulated investment in real
estate. Today, the construction industry employs 2.4 million in Dhaka, which in 2010–2011 contributed about
25 percent of national GDP, of which 19 percent was from private investment. These figures represent the formal real estate sector and do not include significant investment and construction in informal settlements in
Dhaka and other urban centres of Bangladesh.
Regulation of real estate development is rarely effective. Developers require approvals from different authorities whose regulations and approval criteria are poorly coordinated. Combined with limited public sector capacity and temptation by developers to bypass steps in the approval process, disaster risks are rarely assessed
and are transferred from poorly regulated developments to public authorities, infrastructure users and private
households.

(Source: Jabeen, 2012)

126

Part II - Chapter 8

cities, in which low-income households as well as
small businesses find themselves pushed towards
the urban periphery or onto hazard-exposed areas.
In Brazil, for example, prime urban land is held by
landowners in anticipation of profits through future sales while low-income households settle in
areas with limited basic infrastructure and services
(Kataria and Zerjav, 2012). Perversely, these poor
quality services often come at a high price and are
another profit-generating stream in the informal
market for water and energy (Ibid; Baker and McClain, 2009).

ter the development has been sold. Investors or
developers rarely take responsibility or accountability for the disaster risk that may be generated
and sold on. In the case of the shared risks that are
generated, the situation is further complicated because risks can rarely be attributed to a single investment decision, but are generated by layers of
successive investments over decades.

In Dhaka, Bangladesh, as Box 8.1 highlights, the
country’s sustained macroeconomic growth, low
interest rates for savings, increased access to credit and a growing formal working sector have all
contributed to a major flow of investment into
speculative real estate development.

There is now consensus that the flow of speculative financial capital into the real estate sector in
the United States of America led to an over-accumulation of capital in that sector and risks in the
financial sector triggered the global crisis that began in 2007–2008 (Castells et al., 2012). The evidence of an over-accumulation of disaster risk in
hazard-exposed cities (see Chapter 4) has analogous causes, given that so much land and property
development, particularly in housing, responds to
speculative investment.

The short-term profitability of speculative urban development does not encourage consideration of disaster risks, which may only manifest as losses af-

Ineffective public regulation
The second disincentive is ineffective public regulatory frameworks. In most countries, local, city or

Box 8.2 The build-up of risk in Lagos, Nigeria

With a recorded growth rate of more than 20 percent, construction and real estate development is one of the
fastest growing sectors in Nigeria. Including the informal sector, the private sector is responsible for providing
almost 90 percent of national housing stock. This growing role was actively stimulated by the government via
its role in supporting development of real estate developer associations and restructuring the housing finance
market (Henshaw, 2010).
However, while sound urban development policies exist, implementation of building and safety codes remains
marred by corruption and limited capacity (Onakuse and Lenihan, 2007). About 80 percent of artisans engaged
in the construction industry is either unskilled or uncertified owing to the absence of standardised training
(Ede, 2011; Aniekwu and Ozochi, 2010; Kayode et al., 2008). Moreover, about 70 percent of Lagos’ population
lives in informal, poorly regulated settlements (Adelekan, 2012).
Consequently, disaster risk has been increasing. Although land zoning regulations take flood risk into account,
they are not based on hazard and risk assessments. Urban development has increasingly taken place on marginal, flood-prone and unsafe lands. Coastal development has increased losses to wetlands, changes in the area’s hydrology and increased flood risk, which affects the urban poor (Adelekan, 2012).
Floods in 2010 and 2011 highlighted increasing risk, with the latter event resulting in the highest claim settlement in the history of the Nigerian insurance industry and significant un-assessed costs to low and middle-income households and the public sector. In addition, hazard-mitigation measures to reduce the risk generated
by uncontrolled urban development have generated huge costs to the Lagos state government.

(Source: Johnson et al., 2012)

127

national governments have legal responsibilities to
regulate investments in urban development. A large
variety of instruments are used for regulatory purposes. These include master plans or high-level
planning guidelines to orient the longer-term development of a city or region; city or local level landuse and zoning plans and planning regulations;
building standards and regulations as well as specific requirements for large projects, such as environmental impact assessments (EIA).
In principle, these regulatory frameworks could and
should be used to discourage investments in real
estate or infrastructure that contribute to increasing
disaster risk. In practice, regulation alone is rarely
effective in managing disaster risks, for a number of
reasons.
First, the way that urban investment has been
planned, regulated and implemented over past decades has changed substantially. In many higherincome countries, from the mid-1950s to the mid1970s, there was a strong culture of public
intervention and investment in governmentplanned and implemented urban development
and land use (Kataria and Zerjav, 2012; Glesson
and Low, 2000). But from the mid-1970s onward,

there was a gradual shift in focus from directly investing in urban development to facilitating increased private investment—deregulating markets
and privatising state-owned land (Mukhija, 2003;
Alexander, 1986).
While publicly planned urban development was not
necessarily risk sensitive, this shift in focus encourages speculative development, which as highlighted
above is not conducive to disaster risk management. In Serbia, for example, rapid privatisation of
housing stock, including public housing estates that
previously had been heavily subsidised by national
and municipal government budgets, has resulted in
the rapid decay of buildings and increased disaster
risk (Kataria and Zerjav, 2012). In Chile, deregulation and de-zoning of urban land has also led to
unregulated construction on hazard-exposed areas with inadequate overall building quality (Smolka and Sabatini, 2000).
Many low and middle-income countries also adopted legislation and planning mechanisms to
regulate land use, building and urban development; or inherited inappropriate mechanisms from
the colonial era, but generally with significantly
weaker capacities in implementation and enforce-

Box 8.3 Rapid growth of construction sector equals rapid growth of disaster risk in Viet Nam

Viet Nam has experienced rapid economic growth and urbanisation in recent decades. In parallel, private investors in the real estate sector have gained more power to shape urban planning and development. Increasing
pressure to build in hazard-prone areas comes from migration and urbanisation, which is exacerbated by speculative real estate development driven by opportunities for short-term profits. Many areas previously zoned as
subject to flood risk are being developed as residential and industrial sites, not only in large cities such as Ho
Chi Minh City but also in smaller urban centres.
For example, Can Tho City, with a population of 350,000, is the demographic and economic centre of the Vietnamese Mekong Delta. Major new residential and industrial developments are planned in the Cai Rang district
at the confluence of the Hau and Can Tho Rivers with high flood risk. The city district’s zoning plans reflect this
risk only partially; for example, future flood risk scenarios were not included.
Real estate developers heavily influence zoning plans in the city. Approval has been sought to build almost
double the number of new residences allowed for in the district’s master plan. While not all of these will be developed, agricultural land and floodplains will be converted to residential areas creating a patchwork of development, open spaces and fallows, which interrupts natural drainage flows in the city and aggravates flood risk.
As a consequence, authorities may be forced into large public investments in flood mitigation infrastructure.

(Sudmeier-Rieux et al., 2012)

128

Part II - Chapter 8

Box 8.4 The Italian floods: shaping, building and exhausting floodplains

In Italy, damages (and often deaths) caused by flooding make it to the news almost every year. During the 20th
century, Italy was recorded as Europe’s second country most affected by flooding, with about 3,000 flood disasters (Llasat and Siccardi, 2010). The flood that affected the Veneto region in October 2010 was estimated to have
caused €3.7 billion in damages (European Commission, 2011), and damages from events that affected Liguria
and Toscana in October 2011 were valued at €722 million (European Commission, 2012). In November 2012, six
people vanished during the flood affecting Toscana.iv
Although physical factors such as climate, topography and morphology contribute to flood hazard, the way river basins have been intervened (for example, canalising rivers) has been an important factor contributing to
current flood risk.v In Northern Italy, excessive extraction of ground water has led to heavy subsidence in the
Po Valley, reaching 0.7 cm per year (Carminati and Martinelli, 2002), which in turn increases flood hazard.
The urbanisation of floodplains has also contributed to increased flood risk, particularly since the 1960s. Different laws and policies have been adopted to regulate land use (Luino et al., 2012). But local autonomy to designate the areas that can be built up, along with the fact that flood risk assessments are not an ‘exact’ science,
has in some cases allowed developers to keep building in floodplains (Ibid.). However, it is not only a matter of
legislation—regulations are not always respected. For example, in Campania, population growth and speculative development has extended city boundaries towards flood-prone areas and also contributed to landslide
risk in the area (Di Martire et al., 2012).
(UNISDR)

ment. These mechanisms were often used to
structure urban space in a way that segregated
higher and lower-income households and formal
and informal areas of cities (Mitlin and Sattertwaite, 2013). As Box 8.2 exemplifies, in some cases,
this has resulted in city governments completely
losing control over urban development (UN-HABITAT, 2012).
In recent years, however, a counter trend has
emerged. In middle-income countries with successful economies, formerly ineffective or non-existent planning and regulatory mechanisms have
been strengthened, enabling city governments to
exercise some control and authority over urban
development.
Second, even where regulatory mechanisms do exist and when disaster risk considerations have
been factored into these mechanisms, there have
been major challenges to implementation in practice. More than half of the countries reporting on
progress against the HFA in 2011–2013 recognise
that they lack risk-sensitive mechanisms to regulate investment in urban development.

For example, in Bangladesh, the government acknowledges that the country does not have risksensitive policies for land zoning and the regulation
of private real estate development (Government of
Bangladesh, 2012). Risks may also be generated by
inaction and non-decisions, which weaken accountability and responsibility. In Turkey, construction
takes place that ignores the country’s relatively
strong building codes (Yönder and Turkoglu, 2010;
Balamir, 2012; Sengezer and Koç, 2005).
As Box 8.3 highlights, investors and developers are
often able to influence and manipulate land-use
zoning plans designed to regulate disaster risk.
As Box 8.4 illustrates, similar challenges are faced
in high-income countries.
In the United Kingdom, where flood risk management has been debated for decades, a policy that
requires local planning authorities to identify risks
posed by floods to new development has existed
since 2006. However, a sequential approach in the
planning process allows planning permission to be
granted for development on floodplains if the developer can show that no alternative sites exist.
129

Box 8.5 Flood damage in the United Kingdom—what went wrong?

In the United Kingdom, 2012 was a particularly wet year, with second highest rainfall recorded in about 100
years. In November 2012, in some locations, rainfalls of a return period above 100 years were recorded (NERC
(CEH), 2012). Flooding affected many parts of the country, causing losses estimated at about £1 billion, with
more than 1,000 homes damaged or destroyed. Insured losses represented about half of the total cost (AON
Benfield, 2012c). This was the worst damage since the 2007 floods, which in turn had triggered reforms in the
United Kingdom’s management of flood risk.vi
So what went wrong again in 2012? Existing regulation and guidance on required risk assessments (Government of the United Kingdom, 2006) and the new National Planning Policy Framework (Government of the United Kingdom, 2012) might not have provided the Environment Agency with enough authority to stop development (Barclay, 2012). The rate of construction in the floodplain has continued to increase (Committee on
Climate Change, 2012), which increases exposure and risk (Bosher, 2012; Barclay, 2012).
But this is not the only issue. From one perspective, regulation would appear to be successful. Since 1989, 7
percent to 11 percent of new housing in the United Kingdom has been built in areas with “high flood risk” (Bosher, 2012). Between April 2008 and March 2011, the Environment Agency reported that the rate of planning permits granted against their advice was reduced from an annual rate of 4.6 percent to 0.9 percent.
However, existing flood risk ‘zoning’ only accounts for river and coastal flooding. Therefore development can
still take place in areas subject to surface water and flash flooding. Insufficient drainage and culverts blocked
owing to lack of maintenance were important contributors to the 2012 flooding. Substantial cuts in funding to
the Environment Agency and to local flood risk management initiatives (Bennett, 2012) might have contributed
further.
Also, areas protected by flood defences are not defined as ‘high risk’. Therefore, many new developments were
built on areas protected by flood defences (thus, strictly speaking, not at risk of flooding). To maintain the same
standard of protection for such developments, the government needs to heavily invest in the maintenance of
such structures. Thus, increasing development in areas protected by flood defences, or continuing to build new
defences, may be unsustainable in the long term (Committee on Climate Change, 2012).
However, public acceptance of curbing new developments in floodplains or reducing the standard of protection
from floods is limited. The Humber Estuary is a case in point. Being particularly vulnerable to sea level rise, the
maintenance of the current standard of protection provided by flood defences is not viable in the whole estuary. After extensive consultation with residents and local business, there was little support for proposals to
‘make space for the water’ (Government of the United Kingdom, 2008).
Households and businesses clearly need to be more aware of risks when deciding where to buy a house or establish a business. In the United Kingdom, information on flood risks is freely available. Despite this, a recent
survey showed that in London, less than one-third of small and medium-sized businesses at risk are adequately
equipped against floods.vii Currently, the government has an agreement with insurers that oblige them to provide policies to those who live in areas with a yearly probability of 1 in 75 (or lower) of being flooded (Bennett,
2012a). Although this does not protect all households (e.g. those at higher risk of flooding and those who cannot
afford insurance), it provides a certain degree of security. This agreement is, however, expiring in 2013.

(Source: UNISDR)

In practice, developers have received planning
permits to build on flood-prone areas, especially in
densely populated areas such as Greater London
(Bosher, 2012). As Box 8.5 highlights, building in
flood-prone areas has had a direct and decisive influence on economic losses in the United Kingdom
in recent years.
130

Part II - Chapter 8

There is little evidence, therefore, to show that disaster risk in urban development can be managed
by public regulation alone, even in countries with
strong institutions and a high level of capacities.
The attractive short-term returns on capital to be
gained from speculative real estate development,
the potential collusion between different stake-

Figure 8.3 Private participation in infrastructure projects in low and middle-income countries, 1985–2011viii

(Source: UNIDR based on World Bank and PPIAF, PPI project databaseix )

holders in the urban development process and
loop-holes in regulation itself, all conspire against
an effective management of disaster risks.

8.5

Infrastructure development
and risk transfer

Infrastructure investments at the scale required to meet sustainable economic and developmental goals will increasingly rely on private
sector engagement, particularly in low-income
countries.

The OECD estimates that by 2030, annual investment requirements for telecommunications, road,
rail, electricity (transmission and distribution) and
water are likely to total about US$53 trillion, an average of 2.5 percent of world GDP (OECD, 2007).
When electricity generation and other energy-related infrastructure investments in oil, gas and
coal are added, the total would be more than
US$70 trillion or 3.5 percent of world GDP (Ibid.).
The need for such investment is particularly critical
in low-income countries. For example, the World
Bank estimates that African countries need to

Box 8.6 Delhi metro exposed to multiple risks

A metro line to connect Delhi, India, with a new suburb is one of the city’s biggest recent infrastructure projects.
This privately financed project, however, may contribute to increasing earthquake and flood risk in the city.
In terms of direct risks, more than 50 stations on this new line are located in areas of high earthquake hazard,
exposing the line to earthquakes of up to a magnitude of 8 on the Richter scale (see Figure 8.4). One of the stations was also built in a high flood hazard area. In both cases, hazard information was available on municipal
zoning maps. As a result, the metro line is exposed to high flood and earthquake risk even for short return periods of 1–10 years (IIHS, 2012).

131

Figure 8.4 Delhi metro lines overlaid on the seismic micro-zoning map, and location of Shastri Park metro station in floodplains of the Yamuna riverbed

(Source: IIHS, 2012)

This direct risk to metro stations and rail line structures has been addressed and reduced owing to application
of risk-sensitive building codes. However, this is not necessarily the case for new real estate developments surrounding the stations. For example, following construction of the station in the floodplains, further commercial expansion is planned in the area without consideration of risk (IIHS, 2012).
Decision-making for such large-scale infrastructure projects is a complex process in any country or city. But in
planning and implementing such projects, disaster risks are constructed and then transferred to the ultimate
users of the infrastructure, irrespective of zoning and risk maps (IIHS, 2012). Despite awareness of earthquake
and flood risk, much of the expansion of Delhi (Figure 8.5) has taken place in highly hazard-prone areas.

Figure 8.5 Change in urban built-up area and land cover in Delhi, 1992–2011

(Source: IIHS, 2012)

(Source: IIHS, 2012)

132

Part II - Chapter 8

spend about 9 percent of their GDP on new as well
as on the operation, maintenance and expansion of
existing infrastructure to reach the Millennium Development Goals by 2015 (World Bank, 2008a). However, this has not translated into actual spending,
owing to budget constraints in many countries. Actual expenditure on infrastructure in Africa has been
only half of the required 9 percent over the last 40
years (Ibid.).
Private participation in the development of infrastructure, including private financing, is thus sought
to bridge the gap between needs and available
public resources. The World Bank’s database on private engagement in infrastructure projectsx shows
that despite fluctuations, this has been increasing in
low-income and middle-countries since the mid1980s (Figure 8.3).

Investment in major infrastructure projects structures how cities and their regions grow. If disaster
risk considerations are not factored into their design, collapsed and damaged critical infrastructure
can be a serious cause of business interruption and
a source of indirect disaster loss for city regions. But
even when the infrastructure itself is disaster proof,
it can lead to other investments in hazard-prone areas that increase disaster risk. Infrastructure projects, therefore, have a major potential to generate
shared risks and costs.
Major infrastructure projects are increasingly developed as public-private partnerships (PPPs), in which
a varying proportion of the investment and risk is
carried by the public sector and by private investors. Depending on how these PPPs are structured,
who owns these risks may not be clearand part of

Box 8.7 Impact of dike rupture in Colombia, the Netherlands and Japan

Over the last 40 years, construction of dikes has been the principal strategy for flood hazard mitigation in the
floodplains of Colombia, particularly on the Magdalena and Cauca Rivers that cross the country from south to
north. Between 1970 and 1990, 715 km of dikes were constructed along the river and 626 km in lateral canals in
the Cauca river basin alone (OSSO, 2012c). Although dikes provide flood protection, they explicitly or implicitly
encourage development and increased exposure on areas where flood hazard has been reduced.
During the 2010/2011 ENSO episode in Colombia, dykes failed in at least 42 percent of the country’s departments, and were responsible for a significant proportion of total flood losses (OSSO, 2012c). During and following the disaster, a significant proportion of resources invested in rehabilitation and reconstruction was used to
rehabilitate or reinforce dykes (US$884 million by Colombia Humanitaria and US$21 million by the Adaptation
Fund), potentially reproducing or aggravating the risks that existed before the disasters (Ibid.).
In contrast, the Netherlands, with two-thirds of its population and 60 percent of its land below sea level, had
been investing in dyke construction for decades, turning floodplains into poldersxi for agricultural and urban
development (Orie and Stahel, 2012). A series of floods in the 1990s, associated with dyke failures, led to a new
approach that effectively “depolderises” the country (Ibid.). By deepening riverbeds and moving dykes away
from the river, rivers can expand into floodplains at almost 40 locations along the major rivers.xii Although costs
for this strategic shift are an estimated €2.2 billion, the social and environmental benefits are expected to be
even higher (Orie and Stahel, 2012).
In Japan, the 2011 tsunami triggered a review of design concepts for levees against possible tsunami impact.
The main innovation was a classification of disaster risks into two categories: extensive and intensive risk. In
the revised designs, levees are required to withstand extensive risks with a return period of 10 to about 100
years (Government of Japan, 2012b). In other words, levees have to be built to protect populations from highfrequency risk. For intensive risks, which are likely to happen with a return period of more than 100 years, building levees would usually neither be a guarantee for protection nor do they show positive cost-benefit ratios.
Therefore, in addition to infrastructures, the government focuses on resident evacuation and other preparedness measures for such events.

(Source: UNISDR)

133

the risk may be transferred from the private to the
public sector.
In India, the country’s Eleventh Five Year Plan allocated more than US$500 billion for infrastructure
investment up to 2012, of which a substantial portion was earmarked for the engineering and construction sectors (PwC, 2008). Increasingly, in India, PPPs are emerging where private investment
finances publicly managed construction.
As Box 8.6 shows, these partnerships do not necessarily lead to improved disaster risk assessment
and management, and may underplay disaster
risks or lead to their transfer as shared costs to the
public sector or to city residents.
The construction of infrastructure to control floods,
such as dykes, may also generate shared risks and
costs, as it facilitates real estate development in
flood-prone areas that appear to be protected. The
consequences of dyke failure may be worse than
the risks that were supposed to be addressed by
the infrastructure in the first place (Box 8.7).

Unless the ownership of the risks that can be generated by large infrastructure projects is made explicit
and the responsibilities of both private and public
partners clarified, there may be insufficient incentive
for the private partners to invest in risk reduction. At
the same time, the public partners are often unaware
of how much new risk they are really taking on.

8.6
	

Towards a new incentive structure:
disaster risk reduction as a value 	
proposition in urban development

Through partnerships, businesses are able to reduce their own losses as well as support the public sector to more effectively manage and reduce
disaster risks. Resilient infrastructure systems
underpin resilient business and resilient business underpins prosperous cities and countries.
On 6 July 2011, businessman Donald Trump and
Panama’s President Ricardo Martinelli participated
in the inauguration ceremony of Trump Ocean Club,
Panama, a luxury international hotel and casino.xiii

Box 8.8 Addressing flood risk in Scotland – joint private and public action

Compared with other parts of the United Kingdom, Scotland has been comparatively successful in reducing its
exposure to flood hazard. Since 1995, new construction in floodplains has been reduced to almost zero as a result of a national planning policy that prohibited the building of residential property in areas of high flood risk.
The Scottish success was the result of working closely with private real estate developers and insurers. Planners in local governments were legally obliged to set up Flood Liaison and Advice Groups (FLAG) (Crichton,
2012) as non-statutory advisory groups of public and private sector representatives with insurers playing a key
role in their establishment. Between 2000 and 2003, the Association of British Insurers (ABI) was instrumental
in helping to establish 19 FLAGs with 28 Scottish local authorities covering more than 90 percent of the Scottish
population. These groups also brought together property developers, landowners, water departments and
suppliers, emergency planners, hydrology consultants, representatives from the national rail network, the police, fire and rescue services and many more. With local government’s land use planners, development control
officers and neighbouring authorities, all issues related to water management were addressed on a catchmentwide basis, making available critical hydrological and flood risk information to all stakeholders. Many groups
convened information sharing events and involved community groups.
The success of this initiative is undisputed. Only one local authority, Moray, did not engage and continued construction in floodplains. Consequently, it now has serious problems with flooding and access to flood insurance. In other parts of the United Kingdom (see Box 8.5 above), local communities are not directly involved in
flood planning and there is no mechanism in place for planners to consult with developers, insurers and other
key stakeholders across the catchment area.

(Source: Johnson et al., 2012)

134

Part II - Chapter 8

Box 8.9 Creating value in the urban construction and development sector

Urban developers who sell properties immediately after development will have lower stakes in an integrated
approach to disaster risk management. However, developers who own, lease and/or manage buildings even after construction will have a vested interest in protecting profits from losses, including those associated with
disasters. Mori Building, a Japanese private developer, is such a company, and it has recognized the need to
explicitly deal with earthquake risk in the construction and maintenance of its developments. It has begun to
promote an urban development concept that seeks to build “a city to escape into rather than a city from which
people run away”. Its biggest development includes, for example, a local power plant constructed under consideration of both earthquake risk and CO2 reduction goals. During the aftermath of the Great East Japan
Earthquake, the plant had the capacity to produce and sell surplus electricity to outside areas that experienced
power outages. The company has housed and trained employees with specific responsibilities for disaster management and undertakes regular emergency drills.
Mori Building has not made this investment without calculating the costs and benefits. A survey of office requirements of more than 1,000 companies in Tokyo, conducted in April 2011 just after the major disaster, revealed that the most important criteria for selection was earthquake resilience (92 percent), followed by proven
disaster management by the company managing the building (55 percent), and back-up of electricity to avoid
power outages (51 percent). Although the result of this survey was clearly biased by the immediate disaster experienced by companies, the success of Mori’s approach to take concerns seriously speaks for itself: its large
commercial buildings with office space are fully occupied.

(Source: Mori Building (2012))

The Trump Ocean Club represented a new high-water mark in Panama’s burgeoning real estate sector.
Unfortunately, the inauguration represented a
high-water mark in more ways than one. The ceremony will now mainly be remembered for the severe flooding in the Punta Pacifica area where the
Club was built and for televised images of the VIPs
struggling through the flood-waters.xiv While it had
rained heavily, the floods were caused by inadequate drainage infrastructure that had not kept
pace with the city’s growth and could no longer
cope with peak run-off. The capacity of the drainage system had also been reduced due to the accumulation of cement from real estate projects in
the drains themselves.xv
As this case highlights, investments in urban development may generate shared risks and costs for
the city as a whole, such as increased flood hazard.
But these shared risks can also boomerang back to
affect businesses and investors, including through
damaged reputations. As businesses are starting
to understand how these shared risks and costs
can affect them, a new incentive structure for risk-

sensitive urban development is beginning to emerge.
There is growing evidence of the emergence of expanded risk governance frameworks in cities. Urban governments that seek to attract investment
are entering into innovative partnerships with businesses (Box 8.8) as well as with low-income communities to address climate change, improve security
and effectively manage risk (Johnson et al., 2012).
And new approaches to urban development that
highlight environmental and social sustainability
are becoming a key value proposition for the construction and real estate sector. Reducing the risks
associated with flooding and other hazards fits easily into this new narrative of urban development.
In urban environments, governments can seek to include businesses and investors in planning and decision-making instead of seeking to control private
investment through regulation only (Johnson et al.,
2012). The construction sector is an example where
there are particularly important pre-project and
pre-construction stages where disaster risk should
be considered and where both private and public
stakeholders can play a critical role (IIHS, 2012). Fur135

ther, incentives for private urban developers to invest in and market their disaster risk management
efforts already exist and need to be articulated
more clearly to promote replication (see Box 8.9).
However, risk considerations are often included too

late in the process when they have limited scope to
influence project design and completion. Stakeholders have varying levels of incentives for including disaster risk reduction measures in the planning
process. Often whether or not they engage in the

Figure 8.6 Overview of critical actors, their stake and influence, engaged in different project stages in construction

(Source: IIHS and UCL, based on IIHS, 2012 and Johnson et al., 2012)

Box 8.10 Risk assessments and scenario planning for cities

In 2007, Chicago undertook an assessment of its exposure and vulnerability to climate change. Applying stateof-the-art climate models and risk information, the assessment focused on key infrastructure and developed a
number of scenarios to evaluate the incremental costs of climate change (Oliver Wyman, 2008). Directly involved
in the assessment were 18 different city departments that provided the input required for analysis of probable
economic impact of climate change on the city’s capital investments, internal operations and budgets (Ibid.).
The assessment highlighted rising temperatures and higher levels of rainfall as the main future drivers of dramatically increasing energy and maintenance costs. Annual energy costs in the high emissions scenario were
estimated at nearly 14 times the costs in the low scenario, meaning that efficiency gains in energy consumption
would yield the highest returns (Oliver Wyman, 2008).
In July 2005, Mumbai experienced heavy rainfall of half of its annual average within 24 hours, which resulted in
flooding of more than 60 percent of the city with poor and vulnerable populations suffered significant impact
with an estimated total loss between US$240 million and US$250 million (Hallegatte et al., 2010). Mumbai’s disaster risk management plan of early 2005 had not anticipated the massive direct losses as well as indirect impacts after the floods in the form of epidemics from contaminated water and food. After the event, the municipal government updated its plan to include post-event impacts such as the spread of communicable diseases.
Significant investments were made in flood control, both structural and non-structural (United Nations, 2010).
However, Mumbai still faces the serious challenge of flood risk owing to a high prevalence of informal and unsafe settlements, high density of construction on the shoreline and continuing land reclamation efforts that go
hand-in-hand with the degradation of its coastline, including loss of mangroves and wetlands around the city.xvi
(Source: UNISDR)

136

Part II - Chapter 8

process is a function of stake and influence, which
may vary for each stakeholder during different
phases of a project. Incentives for including safety
and disaster risk reduction measures in the planning processes of the project may be increased by
raising their stakes; for example, by improving public participation processes, the capacities of the
implementation agencies and regulatory bodies,
and enforcing Professional Acts and making professionals more liable for their practice (Figure 8.6).
As Box 8.10 shows, the first step towards developing a joint business case for urban planners and
business investment is often a risk assessment
that is either commissioned by the city council or
the Mayor’s office or by the business itself.
Similarly, regulation that ensures the carry-over of
insurance policies from developers to property
owners could contribute to the practice that risk
assessments of investments not only focus on the
construction phase of the project but take into account the lifespan of the building (IIHS, 2012).

key role in raising awareness of disaster risks. For
example, in the United States of America, the Federal Alliance for Safe Homes (FLASH) has built a
unique coalition of more than 100 organizations
ranging from local governments to private sector
enterprises, to the insurance industry and the federal government, all committed to reducing damage from natural hazards (Government of the United States of America, 2012). It has helped to
educate Americans on how they can lessen the
impacts of hurricanes, floods, fires, earthquakes,
and other natural hazards on their homes.
Green building is increasingly being mainstreamed
as a key component of this value proposition and
in cities’ efforts to develop more socially and environmentally sustainable living spaces (Carpenter,
2013). Green buildings attract higher rents, higher
asset values and more stable tenancies (Brugmann, 2012). Real estate developers increasingly
market aspects such as energy-efficiency, social
space (Carpenter, 2013) and low environmental impacts as factors of competitiveness. And it is likely
that disaster risk management will likewise become

Businesses in the real estate sector can also play a
Figure 8.7 Green roofs on the building of Quito’s water utility

(Source: Empresa Pública Metropolitana de Agua Potable y Saneamiento de Quitoxvii)

137

part of this value proposition.
For example, in Ecuador, Quito’s water utility (Empresa Pública Metropolitana de Agua Potable y Saneamiento de Quito) is encouraging sustainable

risk reduction through water conservation, environmental education and climate change adaptation. This includes the promotion of sustainable
urban drainage systems, including using green
roofs that reduce the risk of urban flooding by ab-

Box 8.11 Social and green cities in low-income countries

In the city of Thimpu, Bhutan, the local government has begun to develop an urban planning process that takes
account of the interrelationship between environmental sustainability, effective disaster risk management and
human well-being. The Thimpu Structure Plan is based on “Principles of Intelligent Urbanism,”xviii acknowledging the needs of different occupations and lifestyles in the spatial organisation of the city. The plan is organized
around 22 themes, including the achievement of a “balance with nature and tradition, conviviality and creating
the ‘city of our dreams’” (Figure 8.8).
Fig 8.8 The Thimpu Structure Plan lays out the existing river front and planned enhanced development of urban green
spaces and social meeting points

(Source: Thimpu Structure Planxix )

To achieve balanced industrial and residential development, environmental management and social and individual well-being, the municipality has employed a development suitability matrix that lays out the degrees of
inter-compatibility of different types of land use.xx The matrix includes considerations of rainfall levels and
temperature and of climate extremes, to encourage low-risk land-use planning. It supports development of
multiple land uses to enhance livelihood diversification and sustainable development to strengthen the city’s
economic resilience. However, there has been criticism in the local press regarding the slow implementation of
the plan and its increasingly outdated features, as its original timeframe ended six years ago.
In addition, Thimpu is still challenged with limited capacity in disaster risk management, including early warning and emergency funding, watershed management and access to risk information. But the municipal government’s attention not only to physical safety in planning economic development within the city but also to lifestyles and a social-environmental balance in the city landscape is an approach that may well prove to build
mid- to long-term resilience.
(Sources: Government of Bhutan, 2004; IIED, 2012a)

138

Part II - Chapter 8

sorbing rainfall water and reducing the inflow into
urban drainage systems (Figure 8.7). Green roofs
are symptomatic of the new value proposition in
urban development. They can reduce energy costs,
improve air quality, reduce flood risks, mitigate urban heat islands and contribute aesthetic and environmental values to urban areas.
These innovations are happening as part of a renewed recognition of the role of urban design and
planning to produce urban spaces that are not only
attractive and functional but also social, sustainable and safe (Soja, 1996; Sassen, 2010). They are
taking place not only in large global cities such as
New York or Tokyo or in high-income countries, but
also in low-income countries, such as in Bhutan, for
example (Box 8.11).
In the Republic of Korea, the national government
has developed tax policies and other financial incentives to reduce private investors’ uncertainty
and stimulate public-private partnerships (PPPs) for
urban green growth (OECD, 2012). These were de-

veloped in its First Five-Year Action Plan for Green
Growth of 2009 and include construction subsidies, compensation for base cost and infrastructure credit guarantees (Ibid.).
Such examples show that business will invest in
green urban infrastructure when the right incentives, mainly associated with cost recovery and
competitive pricing, are provided (Johannessen et
al., 2013). Certification initiatives and agreed standards can promote this further; for example, in
Sweden, collaboration between various government departments, municipalities, building and
energy companies, property owners, consultants
and architects is working to develop a sustainability certification for city areas (Karlsson, 2012). Although this initiative does not yet explicitly consider disaster risk, such tools can be adapted to
include assessments of drainage and run-off capacity, flood risk and heat absorption, to name a
few (Johannessen et al., 2013).
A good example of a certification programme is

Box 8.12 PPPs in Canterbury, New Zealand

Infrastructure provides services, utilities and linkages, which allow cities to function and indeed present lifelines for business and community. Infrastructure networks are often large, complex and interdependent systems, meaning that failure in one network can compromise the entire system.
A good example of how PPPs can reduce risks to infrastructure networks was highlighted in the 4 September
2010 and 22 February 2011 earthquakes near Christchurch, New Zealand, which caused damage of US$4 billion
and US$12 billion, respectively. The Christchurch Engineering Lifelines Study (Christchurch Engineering Lifelines Group 1997) undertaken in the 1990s, addressed a range of hazards including earthquakes, snow and
wind-storms, flooding and tsunamis. A key feature of the project was the wide involvement of engineers and
managers from utility organisations, including local authorities, and private and public companies. After the
study, Christchurch’s utility companies built disaster risk management into their daily business practices. Interorganisational collaboration was facilitated and formalized through the Canterbury Lifeline Utilities Group.
These efforts paid off when the earthquakes struck. Thanks to investments in reinforcement before the earthquakes, the Port of Littleton was able to resume operations within days—despite heavy damages to the port
and major losses owing to demolished commercial buildings. Telecommunications buildings that had also
been reinforced were able to continue to operate. Most bridges had been retrofitted by Christchurch City Council and the New Zealand Transport Agency and successfully survived the quakes; and US$6 million of investment in seismic strengthening work by Orion, the local electricity distribution company, saved more than
US$65 million in direct losses.
In contrast, residential losses were high owing to Christchurch’s history of land-use decisions, which allowed
development on land susceptible to liquefaction, lateral-spreading and subsidence in the event of earthquakes.

(Source: Johnston, 2012)

139

the U.S. Green Building Council’s LEED Neighbourhood Development rating system, which incorporates disaster risk reduction concepts, particularly
with regard to flood protection.xxi If these and other similar certification programmes can be expanded and fully include risk neutrality within their criteria, they can become another powerful incentive
for businesses to invest in disaster risk reduction.
At the same time, the construction of resilient infrastructure can also be a key value contribution.
As Box 8.12 shows, PPPS can be used to reduce
risks and shared costs. Resilient infrastructure systems underpin resilient business and resilient business underpins prosperous cities and countries.

heid.nl/ministeries/ienm#ref-verkeerenwaterstaat and http://www.
ruimtevoorderivier.nl/meta-navigatie/english/.
xiii	 http://www.ticotimes.net/Current-Edition/News-Briefs/Donald-Trump-inaugurates-Latin-America-s-tallest-building-in-Panama_Thursday-July-07-2011.
xiv	 http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ivJ7O1fqjhM.
xv	

http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-latin-america-14152439.

xvi	 See Government of Maharashtra: http://www.visionmumbai.
org/images/projects/Document_EC%2039th%20%20meeting%20
minutes_Final_120412120808.pdf (accessed 25/2/2013); http://
www.indianexpress.com/news/post1947-land-reclamation-tripled-in-mumbai-study/960419 (accessed 25/2/2013); http://india.
blogs.nytimes.com/2012/11/01/what-if-mumbai-gets-hit-by-astorm-like-sandy (accessed 25/2/2013).
xvii	 Information provided directly to UNISDR. For more information
on Quito’s water utility, see: www.emaapq.gob.ec.
xviii	http://www.dudh.gov.bt/Thimphustructural/Index.html.
xix	 http://www.dudh.gov.bt/Thimphustructural/Index.html.
xx	 http://www.dudh.gov.bt/Thimphustructural/maps/development_matrix.gif.
xxi	 http://www.usgbc.org/DisplayPage.aspx?CMSPageID=148.

Notes
i	
The urban population of Asia more than tripled between 1970
and 2011, from 506 million to 1,895 million, and is projected to increase to 2,703 million by 2030 (UNDESA, 2012). The urban population of Africa almost quintupled between 1970 and 2011, from 87
million to 414 million and is expected to reach 744 million by 2030.
Latin America and the Caribbean have a far slower urban growth
rate than other regions, but this is only because a very high proportion of its population already lives in urban areas.
ii	 UNDESA World Population Prospects, the 2010 revision: http://
esa.un.org/unpd/wpp/index.htm.
iii	

Expressed in 2010 prices and exchange rates.

iv	

wwww.ansa.it.

v	

www.cirf.org.

vi	

e.g. the Flood and Water Management Act, 2010.

vii	 www.rics.org/uk/knowledge/news-insight/news/businessesin-the-capital-unprepared-for-flood-risk.
viii	 The value is expressed in 2005 US dollars; the GDP deflator
is taken from World Development Indicators of the World Bank.
Countries are classified according to GNP per capita: low-income
countries = US$1,025 or less; lower middle-income countries =
US$1,026 to US$4,035; upper middle-income countries = US$ 4,036
to US$12,475.
ix	

http://ppi.worldbank.org.

x	 The database covers infrastructure projects in energy, telecommunications and transport and water sectors of low and middle-income countries that meet three criteria: a) projects that are
owned or managed by private companies, b) projects that directly
or indirectly serve the public and c) projects that reached financial
closure after 1983. For the detailed database description please see:
http://ppi.worldbank.org/resources/ppi_methodology.aspx (accessed
28th February 2013).
xi	 The Dutch word “polder” refers to dry land created by enclosing
floodplains (or shallow waters) with dykes.
xii	 For more information on the Dutch “Room for the Rivers Programme” see: Government of Netherlands, http://www.rijksover-

140

Part II - Chapter 8

Chapter 9

Hazardous Leisure

141

Small island states that have been most successful in attracting investment in the tourism sector
have also experienced the highest losses relative to GDP and damages to uninsured public and private infrastructure.
Where the ownership of risk is not well defined, costs may be borne by those that usually benefit
least. In these settings, tourism can create new risks, but also presents great opportunity for risk
management.
The role of social demand for resilient investment is currently not a strong lever in the tourism sector, particularly in the context of demand for beach tourism. Value propositions for small island holiday destinations that meet current demand and yet promote resilience need to be articulated.

Globally, tourism is one of the most dynamic and
fastest-growing business sectors, contributing 9
percent to global GDP (WTO, 2011; WTTC, 2012). In
2011, the tourism sector was responsible for 4.6 percent of total global capital investment. The sector
creates more jobs than the financial services, communications and mining industries and for every
US$1 spent on tourism and travel, US$3.2 is generated in GDP (WTTC, 2012).
Figure 9.1 Contribution of tourism to exports of goods and
services, annual average 2006–2010 (percent)

In 2012, the tourism industry was expected to grow
faster than overall predicted global growth (UNWTO, 2011).i Its contribution to global GDP in the
same year was estimated to be US$2 trillion, generating more than 100 million jobs (WTTC, 2012).
Most of this growth is occurring in China and India,
where domestic tourism is expected to generate a
sharp upturn in capital investment—contributing
to an overall growth of 6.7 percent in Asia (Ibid.).
This chapter, however, will focus on tourism in Small
Island Developing States (SIDS), and how business
investment decisions contribute to disaster risks, in
turn affecting the economy of these countries.

9.1

Comparative advantages but
high risks

Small island states in the Caribbean, Indian Ocean
and Pacific are increasingly popular tourist destinations, many of which are also highly exposed to
hazards. Attracting investment in tourism development is one of the few areas where SIDS are
competitive. However, it also poses risks, given
their high economic vulnerability.
Many small island developing states (SIDS) are heavily
dependent on tourism and a number of different
tourism products along the tourism supply chain as
the key source of investment (Zhang et al., 2009). Although SIDS may be uncompetitive in other economic sectors, in tourism, many of them excel (WEF, 2011).
(Source: UNISDR, based on data from UNCTAD, 2011)

142

Part II - Chapter 9

Figure 9.2 Economic crisis vulnerabilityiii of SIDS economies
(LDCs and non-LDCs) compared with LDCs on average

ism generates economic growth and employment.
But this reliance on a single economic sector implies
risks. As Figure 9.2 shows, all but a handful of SIDS
(whether they are LDCs or not) have a higher vulnerability to shocks and crises than LDCs in general.

9.2

			
Beachfront risk

Direct and indirect losses from disasters in SIDS
can affect not only the entire tourism industry
but national economies as a whole. Tourism investments both exacerbate and suffer significant impacts from weather-related disasters in
these countries.

(Source: Adapted from (UNDESA, 2010))

In many SIDS, business investment in the tourism
sector is driven by attractive tropical beachfront
and coastal locations, associated marine leisure opportunities as well as land-based activities, such as
golfing. Several SIDS also promote business and
conferencing facilities along with attractive beachfronts, targeting large national and international
companies and organisations. Because of these
comparative advantages, the tourism sector has
been a major driving factor for economic growth,
particularly between 2005 and 2010, enabling countries such the Maldives and Cape Verde to graduate
from their Least Developed Country (LDC)ii status
(UNWTO, 2012).
In 2007, international tourism receipts accounted for
51 percent of total value of exports of SIDS compared with less than 10 percent in other developing
countries (UNDESA, 2010). Figure 9.1 highlights the
contribution made by the tourism sector to exports
and GDP in 25 SIDS.
Investment in the tourism sector, however, presents
SIDS with opportunities as well as challenges. Tour-

The comparative advantage of SIDS in attracting
business investment in the tourism sector is equally
one of their greatest risks. For example, in the Caribbean, typical tourism development is located within
800 metres from the high water mark (World Bank,
2000). In the Commonwealth Caribbean more than
65 percent of hotel rooms are in coastal areas—in
Barbados, for example, the percentage exceeded 90
percent in 2002 (Jackson, 2002).
By their very nature, these investments—particularly in beach tourism—are highly exposed to hazards
such as tropical cyclones, storm surges and tsunamis. Further, coastal tourism is highly exposed and
vulnerable to negative impacts from climate change
(ECLAC, 2011). This may include infrastructure exposed to sea level rise, beaches that are subject to
coastal erosion, diving centres that depend on
healthy coral reefs, as well as sedimentation and
water pollution.
As highlighted in Chapter 7, many SIDS have exceptionally high levels of disaster risk. Business investment in the SIDS tourism sector, therefore, comes with
high levels of disaster risk, which, given the high dependency of local economies on tourism, becomes a
shared cost for economies and societies as a whole.

143

Over the last decade, beach tourism destinations
and island reserves in particular have experienced
disasters associated with the following hazard
events: Indian Ocean tsunami in 2004, Hurricanes
Katrina and Wilma in 2005, and the Samoan tsunami and Fiji floods in 2009. Data on the amount of
losses to the tourism sector or percentage of tourism operations and outputs exposed to hazards
are not readily available. However, the few national or regional-level studies published to date all indicate significant impacts (UNEP, 2008).
In 2004, Hurricane Ivan resulted in estimated direct
losses of US$900 million in Grenada—more than
twice the country’s GDP. The tourism sector was
particularly hard hit. Of the island’s infrastructure,
70 percent was damaged, and demand for services
from the tourism sector declined for several years
(World Bank, 2004). Apart from hotel and restaurant infrastructure, eco-tourism and agro-tourism
components suffered severe damage to their resource base (Ibid.).
Later that year, the Maldives suffered direct losses
from the Indian Ocean tsunami amounting to total
estimated damages of US$470 million, or close to
62 percent of GDP. Of this amount, about US$100
million were losses in the tourism sector (World
Bank et al., 2005). Of these losses, approximately
one-half were insured. Tourism also suffered the
largest indirect losses, together with the fisheries
sector. With a sharp drop in tourist arrival numbers, tourism suffered the highest negative macroeconomic impact (Ibid.).
In 2009, another tsunami caused total disaster losses of US$124 million in Samoa, the equivalent of
more than 22 percent of GDP (Government of Samoa, 2009). Losses in the tourism industry accounted for almost 15 percent of direct and 56 percent of
indirect losses. With tourism receipts accounting for
65 percent of all exports (in 2009), Samoa’s efforts to
recover from the global financial crisis at the time
were further challenged (Ibid.).

144

Part II - Chapter 9

Disasters may also cause interruptions to tourist
sector supply chains, as flights are cancelled and
suppliers affected. Even the warning of an impending cyclone may cause cancellations and hence indirect losses. The structure of these supply chains
also makes them highly susceptible to interruptions
that affect airports and air traffic in the principal
markets for tourism services, such as the United
States of America. Storms and extreme weather that
close major airport hubs, even for a few days, can
lead to cancellations in tourism destinations on
the other side of the globe (Hall, 2010).
Business may also be affected for many years after
a disaster given that it depends on perceptions of
destination safety and security and on the confidence tourists place in industry players (Mahon et
al., 2012; Forster et al., 2012; Méheux and Parker,
2006). After disasters, however, tourism operators
normally attempt to ensure a speedy recovery of
business, playing down underlying risks, so that
potential tourists see the disaster as a brief business interruption rather than a manifestation of
these risks. In some cases, such as the Maldives,
concerns about negative tourist perceptions have
led to the withholding of disaster-related information by industry stakeholders (Becken et al., 2011).
Owing to lack of information dissemination on
risks, the wider impacts of disasters on the sector
have not necessarily resulted in reduced business
for tourism operators. For example, in Grenada, by
December 2005, just over a year after Hurricane
Ivan, the tourism sector had almost completely recovered, with 96 percent of hotel rooms reopened
(UNDESA, 2010).

Box 9.1 Losing out on post-disaster recovery: micro, small and medium enterprises in Arugam Bay, Sri Lanka

The local economy of Arugam Bay in Sri Lanka, dependent to a large extent on tourism and fishing, was devastated by the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami that wreaked havoc on the coast. The particular impact on micro and
small and medium enterprises (SMEs) and those that worked in these was quickly recognised; special initiatives
were designed to help those affected to recover quickly. However, interest to also boost the more formal, commercial tourism sector during reconstruction led to much of the government’s support for the sector going into
large investments geared towards marketing the country’s beaches as an up-market, boutique tourism destination. As a result, small entrepreneurs and businesses as well as fishing communities were insufficiently involved in the recovery processes and their livelihood recovery was severely hampered.

(Source: Robinson and Jarvey, 2008)

Box 9.2 A blueprint of investment-driven risk accumulation in the tourism sector – the case of Denarau, Fiji

The 2009 floods that affected Fiji resulted in high economic costs that were borne almost exclusively by small
businesses and households. About US$143 million were lost by small businesses and another US$7 million by
households. In March 2012, more floods led to more devastation and only two months after the floods, the Nadi
Chamber of Commerce reported that 46 small businesses (one-fifth of all small and medium businesses registered with the Chamber) had to close down because of damage to buildings or destruction of stock; only a
handful eventually reopened.
Tourism development in Denarau has resulted in Nadi attracting more investments, people and businesses,
which meant an increase in exposure of assets. The Pacific Catastrophe Risk and Financing Initiative (PCRAFI)
surveyed the Nadi area, noting that financial exposure of physical infrastructure in the area could be estimated
at US$2.3 billion. The physical landscape of the island has changed dramatically over time, creating new risks
and exacerbating existing exposure (Figure 9.3).
Figure 9.3 Denarau before and after tourism development

(Source: Bernard and Cook, 2012)

145

9.3

Who pays the costs?

As tourism investment attracts further business
investments, generates jobs and with it results
in the build-up of housing development and
road infrastructure, the ownership of risk is usually not well defined. As a result, risks from new

investment become shared costs borne often by
those who benefit least from the return on this
investment.
Losses in the tourism sector in SIDS can rapidly
translate into impacts on employment and disproportionally affect small and medium enterprises
(ECLAC, 2003). For example, after the Indian Ocean

Box 9.3 Tourism investment, coastal erosion and rapidly increasing coastal disaster risk in Southern Viet Nam

Mui Ne is located east of Phan Thiet, the capital of Binh Thuan province in southeast Viet Nam. Increased investment in tourism infrastructure on Mui Ne’s beachfront, including construction of a large jetty, seems to have
resulted in coastal erosion of Phan Thiet shores with resulting increased storm surge and flood risk. Obstruction of shoreline sediment transport by the jetty may be the main reason. The first photograph of Figure 9.4
shows sandy beaches in front of two hotel developments (depicted here as Hotel West and Hotel East) as well as
sand accumulation at a jetty west of the hotels towards Phan Thiet.
To retain sand at the hotel beach, Hotel East invested in the construction of a large jetty that was successful in
protecting erosion and even increasing the beach area in front of the hotel. However, the lack of sediment transportation from east to west, following the construction of the jetty, resulted in loss of beach area for Hotel West
and coastal erosion further along the coast to Phan Thiet (Figure 9.4, large photograph), leaving those areas
more vulnerable to storm surges and floods.
Figure 9.4 Relationship between investment and erosion in coastal southern Viet Nam

(Source of data and figures: Takagi, 2012)

146

Part II - Chapter 9

tsunami in 2004, many local economies based on
tourism and fishing were severely damaged. Yet, in
several cases, reconstruction and recovery efforts
focused on large-scale investments that bypassed
local businesses to accelerate overall tourism revenue (Box 9.1).
SIDS competing to attract investment in the tourism
sector are, implicitly or explicitly, accepting ownership over part of the disaster risk generated by business investments in hotels and resorts. Countries
that have been most successful in attracting investment in the tourism sector and have consequently
increased their hazard exposure have also experienced the highest losses relative to GDP and damages to uninsured public and private infrastructure
(Clayton, 2003).
Investments in tourism infrastructure also attract
associated investment (housing for employees;
road, water and electricity infrastructure; small
businesses) to hazard-exposed areas. Risks to
these assets are often not borne by the industry
but transferred to households, small entrepreneurs or the public sector—as in the aftermath of
major floods in Fiji in 2009 and 2011 (Box 9.2).
Investments in the tourism sector are often accompanied by associated urban and suburban real
estate development and land-use change, which
can also lead to shared costs and transfer of risk
over time and space. For example, although not a
part of SIDS, the case of Mui Ne, near Phan Thiet in
Viet Nam, highlights the direct causal relationship
that tourism investment has in one location and
how that can increase disaster risk in another location (Box 9.3).

9.4
			

Incentives and disincentives for
risk-neutral investment in the 	
tourism sector

Incentive structures that address the need for
risk-sensitive investment in the tourism industry need to be developed significantly.
Despite recurrent disaster losses in SIDS, there is little disincentive to continued and increased business
investment in hazard-prone beachfront locations.
Between 2004 and 2007, there were sequential major
disasters affecting SIDS as well as a rapid growth in
their tourism sector (WTTC, 2012).
Because beach or waterfront locations represent
more profitable business investments, this drives
the concentration of investment into highly hazardexposed areas. High profitability and short turnover
to recover capital investments may mean that investors over discount the risk posed by intensive
events with long return periods. And for SIDS governments, tourism is one of the few sectors where
they are competitive.
As with other business sectors, it is unlikely that
tourism investments in hazard-exposed locations
reflect irrational behaviour by either businesses or
governments, but rather a calculated trade-off between returns on and risk to capital. The typical
tourism developer on Grenada’s main tourism belt
of Grand Anse, for example, will calculate the expected economic return associated with a hazardprone, seafront location and choose this location
over one that is located inland and away from the
coast and which would produce lower returns (Mahon, 2007). Disaster risk is closely related to setback
lines (the distance of tourism infrastructure from the
shoreline). In the case of SIDS, appropriate setback
lines may be unfeasible if the concerned islands are
too small, as with the Maldives (Mahon et al., 2012).
However, multiple layers of investment, decisionmaking and ownership structures in the industry
itself mean that responsibility and accountability
147

for disaster risk is often diffuse. For example, as in
the case of one large international hotel chain, separate investors or investment funds own up to 80
percent of its global hotel business (Honey and
Krantz, 2007). In such cases, the premises of resorts are usually operated by another set of investors, including local investors (Ibid.). Thus, the risk
for global chains, already spread across numerous
operations across regions, is further reduced and
instead transferred to local investors (Mahon et al.,
2012). Even a major disaster in one region would
affect only a minor percentage of businesses’ total
global operations.
From a government perspective, the predominance of the sector in SIDS economies also implies
high inter-country competition to attract investment. This in turn can potentially weaken the role
of government regulation to reduce disaster risk,
including through land-use planning.
For some small islands that turn down tourism investment, owing to disaster risk or environmental
concerns, few other comparative advantages to attract alternative investment in other sectors remain. In contrast, large tourism investors can easily reorient their investments to other islands.
As such, stringent regulations to reduce disaster
risk—for example, establishing non-building zones
on coastlines—end up curbing total tourism investment and revenue and are difficult to justify or
sustain from an economic or political perspective.
The tourism industry, however, is also a frequent
recipient of investments made by international development and aid institutions. For example,
about US$10 billion were provided in 2005 by 12
international donor agencies to fund 370 individual
tourism-related projects (Honey and Krantz, 2007).
In addition, tourism and related infrastructure investments from the United States of America and
Europe into the Caribbean, in particular, is substantial (Lewsey et al., 2004). Although more could
be done to proactively increase the disaster resil148

Part II - Chapter 9

ience of these investments, good examples exist,
such as the Inter-American Development Bank’s
Tourism Sustainability Scorecard.iv
In addition, much of the produced capital in the
sector was built in the 1960s and 1970s—a time of
relatively weaker planning and regulation and low
environmental and risk awareness. During this
period, many hotels were developed extremely
close to the high water mark (Honey and Krantz,
2012; Mahon, 2007; Mahon et al., 2012). Many
coastal tourism belts throughout the Caribbean
have developed seaward of the coastal road owing to little recognition of the impact that future
sea level rise many have on properties (Mahon et
al., 2012).
The imperative to attract investment in the tourism
sector is not generally matched by corresponding
efforts to manage and reduce resulting disaster
risks (Mycoo, 2006). The lack of coordination among
the different departments concerned with attracting tourism investment, on the one hand, and with
managing disaster risk, on the other hand, further
leads to serious policy distortions and conflicting
policy objectives and instruments.
The availability and pricing of insurance has yet to
act as a disincentive to investment in hazard-exposed locations. Tourism investment represents a
growing source of exposure for the insurance industry. Yet, there are only a limited number of assessments available of potential insured losses and the
associated implications for insurance premiums
and insurability in high-risk regions (UNWTO, 2012).
Although increasing losses could make insurance
unaffordable, or unavailable, in the future—particularly for smaller tourism businesses—there is little
evidence that the tourism sector has begun to systematically integrate disaster risk considerations
into investment and operational plans (UNWTO,
2012).
Good examples do exist, however, as with Fiji,

where the banking and insurance sectors work together to protect their investment in tourism assets (Mahon et al., 2012). A new alliance between
the Insurance Council of Fiji and the Fiji Institute of
Engineers has resulted in a certification programme overseen by a vetted panel of engineers.
To acquire insurance and access bank loans, builders are required to go through this certification
programme (Ibid.).

9.5

The double-edged sword of
social demand

Client demand in the tourism sector continuously undermines efforts to create incentives for
more risk-sensitive investment. New and unique
selling points for holiday destinations that meet
the current demand and yet promote resilience
should be identified.
Up to 2,700 tourists may have died in coastal resorts
in Thailand in the December 2004 tsunami (Rosa,
2012). However, this mass mortality did not diminish
the enthusiasm of tourists for tsunami-prone coastal areas, in Thailand or elsewhere.
Social demand, expressed through market demand, plays an important role when changing investment behaviour in other industries. In the tourism sector, however, the demand itself is driving
the risk with limited incentives to proactively reduce it. In fact, an asymmetry exists in the valuation of risk by potential tourists: destinations perceived as unsafe benefit from efforts that counter
this perception, whereas places that are already
perceived as relatively safe do not increase arrivals
by specifically promoting this aspect (Sirakaya et
al., 1997). This means that to a certain extent, although destinations may be punished for being
perceived as unsafe, there is no reward for being
perceived as safe (Mahon et al., 2012).
Tourists prefer proximity to the beach, which poses a challenge to coastal zoning for safe tourism

developments. A survey of 367 international visitors to the island of Tobago revealed that about 43
percent thought that it is moderately to extremely
important that their hotels have disaster plans; a
similar percentage found it moderately to extremely important to receive guarantees of personal
safety from disasters; whereas about 40 percent of
tourists thought it moderately to extremely important to receive information about disaster events
at their hotel. However, more than 82 percent
thought that it is moderately to extremely important that their hotel be located close to the beach
(Mahon et al., 2012).
As a consequence, the tourism sector can actively
distort communication of risk information. Examples from the Maldives and Thailand specifically
show that the tourism industry can be reluctant to
share risk information out of concern that tourists
will perceive them as lacking destination safety
(Becken et al., 2011; Rittichainuwat, 2012; Mahon et
al., 2012).
At the same time, although tourists may place responsibility for disaster risk management on resort
and facility managers, the industry assumes that
responsibility lies with local and national governments (Drabek, 2000), who may not have fully assessed the risks. In Florida, for example, only about
one-half of tourism businesses surveyed in 2011
had either written procedures for disaster events
or evacuation plans in place (Pennington-Gray et
al., 2011). Even major hotel chains do not visibly
take disaster risk into account (Bouvier and Konold, 2011).
Yet, there are signs that in transparently managing
disaster risks in the tourism sector, both businesses making investments and SIDS striving to attract
those investments increase their competitiveness.
Several countries that have begun to spearhead
this challenge are investing in measures that move
significantly beyond ‘business as usual’ response
preparedness to potentially effective risk management and reduction (Wright, 2013). Varied mea149

sures have included developing new cyclone building standards (Cook Islands); coastal land-use and
zoning plans that are considerate of projected tsunami and storm surge levels (Fiji); and setting back
new infrastructure developments according to
storm surge inundation lines for events with a 100
years return period (Anguilla).v
Although resort tourism features predominantly in
beach tourism in several SIDS, such as Fiji
(Scheyvens and Russell, 2012), eco-tourism is now
the fastest-growing segment within the global
tourism industry. Investments in resilient communities, environmental protection and local culture
are already on the agenda of large hotel chains, airlines and tour operators (UNWTO, 2011).
Certification programmes and voluntary rating systems are emerging as popular tools. They are increasingly being accepted by clients and supported by governments that seek to promote the role of
private enterprises in disaster risk management
(Raisch, 2007; Raisch et al., 2007). One such example is Green Globe, the global travel and tourism
industries’ certification programme for sustainable
tourism. Green Globe Members save energy and
water resources, reduce operational costs, and
thus positively contribute to local communities
and their environment and meet the high expectations of green leisure and business travellers.vi
During interviews with small tour operators in Tonga, the main potential incentive for considering disaster risk was a quality certification programme
that incorporated disaster risk reduction (Mahon
et al., 2012).
By integrating risk-neutral behaviour into the agenda of tourism destinations and operators, the sustainability of both SIDS and the tourism investments that they attract could increase. Disaster
risk reduction would present a triple win situation
for investors in the industry, SIDS governments
and communities in tourism destinations.

150

Part II - Chapter 9

Notes
i	 Data on real growth in the sector were not available for 2012 at
the time of writing.
ii	 To be categorised as a Least Developed Country by the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, a country must satisfy
three criteria: low gross national income (under US$750 based on
a three-year average estimate); low human resources (based on
indicators of nutrition, health, education); and high economic vulnerability (based on a composite Economic Vulnerability Index). For
more information, see: www.un.org/special-rep/ohrlls/ldc.
iii	 Vulnerability here is defined based on United Nations Environment Programme/SOPAC methodology (UNDESA, 2010) and takes
into account characteristics such as size, remoteness, dependence
on external demand and supply, extent of resource base, and exposure to global environmental challenges.
iv	 http://www.iadb.org/tourismscorecard.
v	 All these measures are described by countries in their National
HFA progress reviews, 2011–2013 available on http://www.preventionweb.net/english/hyogo/progress/reports/?pid:222.
vi	 http://greenglobe.com/register/green-globe-certificationstandard/.

Chapter 10

No Free Lunch:
Agribusiness and Risks to
Food Security

151

The agricultural sector and with it, the agribusiness industry, has particularly high levels of disaster
risk. Disasters in this sector are not only disasters for businesses, large or small, but also significantly
affect rural societies, urban households, national and global commodity markets and food security.
In the localities and regions where these investments are being made, already limited access to fertile land by smallholder farmers may be further reduced. In a context of increasingly constrained
global food markets, the spread of agribusiness investments into regions with high but poorly understood agricultural drought and other hazards generates risks of future and more severe food price
spikes. This poses a greater threat to the food security of households in low income areas than
drought itself.
But new practices are emerging that match investment opportunities for private companies with
infrastructure and service gaps in under-developed markets, particularly in Africa. Partnerships are
developed that aim to increase the productivity and resilience of smallholder farmers, contributing to local and national food security.

Agriculture remains a key sector in the global economy even as industrial and service sector growth
continues. Moreover, in several regions, agricultural production increases at a staggering rate—for
example, in Latin America, it increased 50 percent
from 2000 to 2012, and in sub-Saharan Africa, more
than 40 percent (FAO, 2012a). In fact, urbanisation

is giving a boost to the role of the agribusiness industry in mediating food production, distribution
and consumption.
Many low and middle-income countries significantly depend on food exports. And agribusiness’
role in creating income and employment opportu-

Figure 10.1 Contribution of agriculture to global employment (1997–2007)

(Source: ILO, 2012)

152

Part II - Chapter 10

nities, particularly in those countries, is undeniable
(FAO and UNIDO, 2009; ILO, 2012; World Bank,
2008b). For example, in sub-Saharan Africa, although agriculture contributes about one-fifth of
GDP growth, the sector provides more than onehalf of all employment and remains the largest
employer in the region (IMF, 2012). Even globally,
although total employment in agriculture is declining, it still provides more than one-third of total employment (Figure 10.1).
Thus, disasters in the agricultural sector are not
only disasters for agribusinesses, large or small,
but they also affect rural societies, urban households, national and global commodity markets
and food security. And yet, only 14 percent of the
94 countries reporting on progress in implementing the HFA (see Chapter 14 and Annex 3) undertake disaster risk assessments prior to investment
in agriculture. The risks associated with agribusiness investments become costs shared with all
who purchase and consume food and agricultural
commodities throughout the world. Therefore, decisions taken by agribusiness in factoring disaster

risk considerations into its investments will play a
crucial role in global food security.

10.1

The agricultural 		
value chain

The complexity of value chains in the agribusiness
sector means that interruptions at critical points or
nodes can ripple through the entire supply chain.
The agribusiness sector is organised around a
complex value chain—input suppliers, producers,
intermediaries, processors, marketers and consumers, mediated by a range of facilitating agents
and macroenvironmental factors (Figure 10.2).
Along this value chain, size and form of businesses vary immensely; from large fertiliser companies to individual farm households that sell surplus production to local buyers at the farm gate;
from local grain mill cooperatives to mediumsized processing plants; from small urban traders
to multinational food chains.

Figure 10.2 Framework of a typical agribusiness production chain

(Source: Fava Neves and Alves Pinto, 2012)

153

However, the myriad of agricultural producers and
those that rely on the sector for their livelihood all
experience different types of vulnerabilities and
exposures along the value chain.
At every step of the chain, transport and associated
infrastructure can be at risk of direct damage from
hazard events, meaning that interruptions at critical
points or nodes can ripple through the supply chain.
Those investing in agricultural production, processing and trade, therefore, have a vested interest in
the uninterrupted functioning of this infrastructure
and in reducing damage owing to disasters.
Nevertheless, producers are usually in the supply
chain’s most vulnerable position. In other sectors,
producers are better able to estimate accurately
output volume in relation to a desired level of production and a given set of inputs. In farming, however, production is subject to highly unpredictable
and uncontrollable conditions, including weatherrelated hazards and pest and diseases in crop and
livestock. Additionally, there is a large time gap beFigure 10.3 The multiple dimensions of disaster risk in agriculture

(Source: UNISDR, adapted from Fava Neves and Alves Pinto, 2012)

154

Part II - Chapter 10

tween the moment farmers make decisions regarding what crops to produce and when they are able
to harvest and sell their production. During this
gap, in addition to other hazards, farmers face risks
related to price volatility that are greater than in
most other sectors (Fava Neves and Alves Pinto,
2012). Figure 10.3 shows how, in the agribusiness
sector, disaster risk lies at the junction of a broad
spectrum of hazards, vulnerabilities and exposures.

10.2
	

Drivers of production 		
and price: local and global 	
vulnerabilities

Dynamic global food markets and volatile prices
are affected by disasters but also act as an important driver of food insecurity and disaster risk.
Despite inherent uncertainty and risk in the sector,
constant hikes in global prices for agricultural commodities since 2000, including exceptional food price
spikes towards the end of the last decade (Figure

10.4), have stimulated major new investments in the
agricultural sector and in global food production.
Growth estimates for the cereal market, for example, project that by 2021, world wheat production

will increase by 12 percent from the base period
2009–2011 (reaching 761 million tonnes (Mt)); world
coarse grain production will increase by 20 percent
(1,359 Mt); and world rice production by 16 percent
(542 Mt) (OECD and FAO, 2012) (see Figure 10.5).

Figure 10.4 Rising food prices since 2000 (as observed January 2000–August 2012, not adjusted against inflation)

(Source: FAO, 2012c)

Figure 10.5 Observed and expected price and production of wheat, coarse grain and rice, 2000–2021

(Source: UNISDR based on OECD and FAO, 2012)

155

Countries expected to contribute to this growth include Kazakhstan, Russian Federation and Ukraine
for wheat; and Argentina, Brazil as well as several
Sub-Saharan countries for coarse grain.
Rising global food prices are being driven by several
factors. These include rising demand for food owing
to population growth, urbanisation and changing
Figure 10.6 Expected increase in the consumption of crops and
livestock in developing countriesi (percent change in consumption: 2021 relative to average 2009–2011)

food consumption patterns, particularly in rapidly
growing low and middle-income countries; high
crude oil prices; use of agricultural commodities for
the production of biofuels; and lower global stocks
(FAO, 2012c; OECD and FAO, 2012; FAO et al., 2011;
World Bank, 2008b). For example, although consumption is expected to increase for all products in
all regions, meat consumption in low-income countries in particular is expected to increase to double
that in high-income countries; the reason for the
strong demand is increasing per capita income and
population growth, especially with large growing
middle classes (Figure 10.6).
The balance of supply and demand, however, does
not directly translate into prices in the agricultural
commodity market. National food security policies,
such as export restrictions and hoarding, can prevent produced commodities from being traded in
the global market. Price volatility and international
price spikes are further catalysed by factors such as
the concentration of production in a few hazard-exposed regions, declining stocks, the role of commodity markets and weather and climate related
disasters. Despite this, global market projections for

(Source: UNISDR based on OECD and FAO, 2012)

Figure 10.7 Global production and prices of ethanol and biodiesel, 2005–2021

(Source: UNISDR based on OECD and FAO. 2012)

156

Part II - Chapter 10

Figure 10.8 World production of wheat, coarse grain and rice by country, 2011

(Source: UNISDR based on OECD and FAO, 2012)

Figure 10.9 Growth rates of yields for major cereals in low-income countries

(Source: World Bank, 2008b)

157

crops, livestock and fisheries products often still
presume “normal weather conditions” as part of “a
plausible view on the evolution of the global agricultural markets over the next decade” (OECD and
FAO, 2012), and continue to discount for disaster
risk in growth projections.
Increasing global demand for biofuels, triggered by
higher oil prices, has significantly underpinned
price hikes (Matondi et al., 2012; Fava Neves, 2011;
Ambali et al. 2011). Currently, about 65 percent of
EU vegetable oil, 50 percent of Brazilian sugarcane
and about 40 percent of US corn production is
used as feedstock for biofuel production (OECD
and FAO, 2012). By 2021, global ethanol and biodiesel production are projected to rise by 373 percent and 779 percent, respectively, compared with
production levels of 2005 (Figure 10.7), and related
crop production increasing correspondingly. Also
by 2021, 14 percent of global coarse grain production, 34 percent of global sugarcane production
and 16 percent of global vegetable oil production
are expected to be used to produce biofuel (Ibid.)

The production of major food crops is concentrated in selected countries that are exposed to frequent hazards. For example, as Figure 10.8 shows,
in 2011, the United States of America grew 28 percent of the world’s coarse grain and 8 percent of
wheat, whereas China produced 17 percent of
wheat and coarse grain and 29 percent of rice. Another hazard-prone country—India—also produced
21 percent of rice, 12 percent of wheat and 4 percent of coarse grain. Rice production especially is
heavily concentrated in hazard-prone regions, with
more than 70 percent of production concentrated
in five hazard-prone Asian countries (OECD and
FAO, 2012).
Higher costs of inputs, such as fertilisers owing to
high oil prices, and growing constraints from water
and land degradation, tend to slow yield and productivity growth, lessening the pace of production
and contributing to lower stocks (OECD and FAO,
2012). For example, growth in yield rates for major
cereals in low-income countries has been declining
consistently since the 1980s, as shown in Figure 10.9.

Figure 10.10 Global stock in relation to domestic demand for wheat, coarse grain and rice, 2001–2021

(Source: UNISDR, based on OECD and FAO, 2012ii)

158

Part II - Chapter 10

Box 10.1 The 2012 drought in the United States of America

In 2012, the most severe and extensive agricultural drought in at least 25 years was affecting agriculture in the
United States of America and parts of Canada and Mexico, with impacts on livestock and crops. 2012 production deviated significantly from expectations early in the growing season. In the first weekly rating of the corn
crop reported by United States Department of Agriculture’s National Agricultural Statistics Service (NASS) on
20 May, more than 75 percent was rated as good-to-excellent, whereas only 3 percent was in the poor or very
poor category. By 30 September, only 25 percent of the crop was rated good-to-excellent with 50 percent rated
poor or very poor. Sharp declines in soybean crop ratings also occurred, with only 35 percent of the crop rated
good-to-excellent as of 7 October compared with 65 percent in first 2012 weekly soybean rating on 3 June.
By November 2012, production estimates for corn and soybean were down by 13 percent and 4 percent, respectively, from 2011. This represented the lowest corn production in the United States of America since 2006. The
drought also affected the transport of harvest within the country. Millions of tonnes of grain travel each month
on the Mississippi River, but when water levels dropped to a historic low, barge traffic was severely hampered,
and costs for alternative transport increased.
The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) calculated that global cereal production in
2012 was 2 percent lower than in 2011owing to severe droughts in the United States of America and across part
of Europe and central Asia. Stocks are expected to decline even further as the 2013 outlook for the United States
of America continues to be unfavourable with severe drought conditions continuing to plague the southern
Plains (Figure 10.11). This will have direct impacts on global food prices.
Figure 10.11 Agricultural drought in the United States of America

U.S. droughts

(Source: NOAA)

The US midwest represents a key node for worldwide agricultural production with implications for global commodity supply chains. When analysts’ predictions for a record harvest collapsed, in futures markets, “prices for
corn, soybeans, soy meal and rapeseed [...] exploded to record highs”.iv International wheat quotations also
surged 19 percent amid worsened production prospects in the Russian Federation for 2012 and expectations of
firm demand for wheat as feed because of limited maize supplies. Combined with the drought forecasts in the
US this year, this means that importing countries across Asia, Africa, Europe and Latin America will continue to
face uncertainty over supply and significant food price spikes, with global knock-on effects, as farmers elsewhere switch to wheat for animal feed, thereby driving up prices for another staple.
(Source: NOAA, FAO, USDA and Cornell Universityv ; Clements-Hunt, 2012)

159

Decreased stocks weaken the agribusiness sector’s
resilience to shocks, including to hazards such as
drought. Low stocks and uncertainty about stock
levels in some parts of the world contributed to the
2007–2008 price hikes (Figure 10.10). In fact, even expectations of depleted stock may lead to price
hikes (FAO et al., 2011).
High price volatility results partly from speculative
trading with futures contracts in global commodity
exchanges—the volumes of which have risen significantly over the last years (Fava Neves and Alves Pinto, 2012; UNCTAD, 2011). In turn, the volatility of food
prices may well have encouraged speculative trading as profits to be gained in price fluctuations usually attract traders (see also Chapter 12).
The deregulation of futures markets in the United
States of America and the European Union has resulted in a further increase of pure speculation in
commodity futures (Clements-Hunt, 2012). Excessive speculation, combined with regulatory failures
for certain financial transactions in the commodities
markets, have meant that from 2004 onward, dealers have used US$173 billion of institutional investment to trade in main commodities (Masters and
White, 2011). To absorb this new money, commodities futures markets expanded, leading to a dramatic rise of futures prices, including for major agricultural products (Ibid.). In fact, traders in commodity
and futures markets can benefit directly from agricultural droughts and temperature spikes as these
create the conditions for dynamic markets with
higher returns (Clements-Hunt, 2012; IATP, 2009).
The correlation of commodity and equity markets
and herd behaviour by investors make the market
very sensitive to even small shocks (UNCTAD,
2011). For example, as commodities such as cereals become increasingly securitized, a perceived
risk of crop failure, owing to drought or flood, may
be magnified via speculative market behaviour,
dramatically increasing global food prices as a result (FAO, 2010).

160

Part II - Chapter 10

Speculative investment in futures contracts—for example, from index funds—can stimulate price spikes
that magnify actual production shortfalls (Masters
and White, 2011; IATP, 2009). In 2011, the indexation
of commodity markets attracted large investors,
such as pension funds and insurance reserves, increasing the volume of speculative trading from 30
percent to 80 percent of commodity futures trading
(Ibid.). Index funds currently hold about one-fourth
of all agricultural futures contracts, and their participation is growing. Between March 2006 and December 2011, for example, the volume of commodity index funds trading in corn increased by 157 percent
on the Chicago Board of Trade (IFPRI, 2011).
All these factors influence the impact that hazards—
such as drought—may have on food prices. International food price spikes, for example, as occurred in
2008, 2010 and 2012, are often said to be triggered
by production shortfalls in major producing countries, such as Australia, Russian Federation and the
United States of America.iii As Box 10.1 shows, the
severe drought that affected the US Midwest in 2012
had a significant effect on global food prices. With
the failure of the US corn and soya bean harvest in
2012, importing countries across Africa, Asia, Europe
and Latin America face uncertainty over supply and
significant food price spikes. The rapid rise in US
corn prices has knock-on effects globally, as farmers
elsewhere, for example, switch to wheat for animal
feed, thereby driving up prices for another staple.

10.3

Enter the dragon: 	new
agribusiness investments in 	
low-income countries

Investment in agribusiness in low-income countries, particularly in Africa, is rapidly increasing, resulting in increased land pressure and
potentially increased disaster risk.
Until 2008, increase in agricultural production was
driven by increasing the cultivated areas as well as
from significant growth in yields (Figure 10.12).

Yield increases are projected to account for up to 90
percent of future growth in agricultural production
(FAO, 2009), but the expansion of arable land, particularly in low and middle-income countries, is still
significant. It is expected that by 2021, low and middle-income countries will put into production about
10–12 percent of global arable land (Nellemann et
al., 2009). This corresponds to 107–120 million hectares of land in sub-Saharan Africa and Latin America
(FAO, 2012a; Nellemann et al., 2009). This presents a
huge business opportunity for agricultural investors
and companies.
Recognising this opportunity, large businesses are
buying productive, arable land and investing in export-oriented commercial agriculture, particularly
in sub-Saharan Africa. Globally, 13 of the top 20 target countries for international investment in agricultural land acquisitions are in Africa (Figure 10.13).
Most of these countries have a high share of agricultural GDP and also high levels of food insecurity (Anseeuw et al., 2012).
Although there is little reliable information on these
deals, inventories carried out in Ethiopia, Ghana,

Figure 10.12 Increase of crop production owing to growth in
yield and area (1965–2008)

(Source: World Bank data cited in Nellemann et al., 2009)

Madagascar and Mali (Cotula et al., 2009) confirm
land acquisitions of some 2 million hectares in the
four countries. International investment accounts
for about three-fourths of this land area (Ibid.). Another study—based on FAO data—shows that land
acquired in seven countries in sub-Saharan Africa
(Ethiopia, Ghana, Liberia, Madagascar, Mozambique, South Sudan and Zambia) comprises more

Figure 10.13 Foreign investments in land acquisitions in selected countries according to size of total reported acquisitions

(Source: UNISDR, based on Land Matrix data.)vi

161

than 65 percent of total area acquired on the continent (Schoneveld, 2011).
Thus, some countries with relatively small areas of
productive land, such as Congo, Ghana and Liberia, have become key targets, mainly driven by the
acquisition of farmland for biofuel feedstock pro-

duction (Ibid.). An increasing number of national
inventories of land deals are being developed,
highlighting the unprecedented scale of land acquisitions, particularly in Africa (IIED, 2012b).
Governments are leasing land through many forms
of public–private partnerships (PPPs)—through
sovereign wealth funds, state-owned enterprises
and involvement of private enterprises. Opportunities for broader public benefits in host countries
are rare, and provisions for risk management and
distribution of benefits in contracts are limited
(IIED, FAO and IFAD, 2011). However, for several
low-income countries, such as Madagascar or Ethiopia, it is unlikely that agricultural productivity
could be increased without this investment.
As with other sectors examined in this report, investments in the agribusiness sector involve tradeoffs. From an investor’s perspective, agribusiness
is an increasingly profitable and attractive sector
owing to high food prices and growing future food
shortages. Investments also increase the productivity of agricultural production over large areas
and thus contribute to increased global food production.
Many governments sell or lease land, which is a
means of increasing their wealth using their natural capital. Agribusiness is one of the few sectors
where governments can have comparative advantages to attract investment. This investment creates opportunities to capitalize on the agricultural
sector, increase employment and volume of exports and achieve economic growth.
However, as with investment in urban development
and tourism, these investments may increase disas162

Part II - Chapter 10

ter risks if hazards associated with droughts, floods
and other events are not identified, estimated and
taken into account. As Chapter 6 of this report highlights, compared with other risks, the mapping and
estimation of agricultural drought risk is still incipient in most low and middle-income countries. It is
likely then that risk levels are not being adequately
considered in investment decisions, let alone the
shared social and environmental costs.

10.4

The externalised cost of
agribusiness investment

Business investment in agriculture that does not
take into account the risk of drought, floods and
other hazards may face high losses and result in
high external environmental and social costs.
As Chapter 6 highlighted many countries where
investments are being made have high levels of
agricultural drought risk and land degradation,
which may be increasing owing to climate change.
Globally, according to the OECD and FAO (2012),
approximately 25 percent of the world’s agricultural
land areas are highly degraded. Degraded soils are
more vulnerable to temperature extremes, droughts
and floods.
Without reliable information, it is unclear to what
extent businesses in the sector are assessing these
and other weather-related risks before making investments. However, if drought and other risks are
not being adequately factored into agribusiness
investment decisions, businesses may face higherthan-expected losses, which can have negative repercussions on the price and availability of agricultural commodities.
The cost of increasing an area of intensive agriculture is usually justified through expected increases
in production and yields (Yumkella et al., 2011). This
assessment of costs and benefits, however, rarely
includes the potential increase in direct losses owing to agricultural droughts and longer-term loss of

natural capital, for example, through land degradation; nor does it address the question of who
owns these risks and pays the price.
Lack of accurate drought risk information may encourage investment in inappropriate agricultural
practices, which in turn can further increase risks
owing to overexploitation of finite water resources
and through land degradation. For example, mono-cropping increases the risk of loss of biodiversity, competition for water in rain-fed agriculture
and the possibility of introducing alien invasive
species (Ambali et al., 2011).
Agribusiness companies will also face new risks, as
underlying risk drivers such as climate change,
land degradation and dwindling water resources
increase agricultural drought risk. Cases of increasing agricultural drought, driven by changing microclimates and potentially climate change, are affecting agribusiness across the world.
For example, the global agribusiness and food
company Bunge suffered a loss of US$56 million in
its sugar and bioenergy segments in the fourth
quarter of 2010 only, owing to agricultural drought
in its main growing areas in Brazil.vii In fact, Bunge
reported that the overall impact from droughts in
various regions exceeded US$70 million for this one
quarter. The company was affected not only by
lower production that resulted in lower sales and
gross margins, but also by increased cost absorption from its fixed costs, charges related to writingoff damaged cane and replanting and costs related
to the settlement of their hedge positions on global
commodities markets.viii
The agribusiness sector has particularly high external social and environmental costs. It is estimated,
for example, that currently the costs externalised
by the agribusiness sector outweigh the earnings
of the entire sector (KPMG, 2012). This clearly presents an opportunity for reassessment of current
value creation within the industry from both business and society perspectives. A few select busi-

nesses in the sector are beginning to recognise a
number of risks that may impact their performance
in the medium to long term should they not begin
to think about shared rather than just shareholder
value.
In a context of increasingly constrained global
food markets, the spread of agribusiness investments into regions with high but poorly understood agricultural drought and other hazards generates risks of future and more severe food price
spikes. As will be highlighted in section 10.6 of this
chapter this poses a greater threat to the food security of low-income rural and urban households
than drought itself.

10.5

					
Water risks

Agriculture is the biggest water consumer, with
around 70 percent of all water withdrawn globally. Increasing demands on water resources by agricultural production, including biofuel production, are driving water scarcity, also contributing
to trans-boundary conflict.
The World Economic Forum’s Global Risks 2012 report identifies water supply crises, food shortage
crises, extreme volatility in energy and agricultural
commodity prices, and rising greenhouse gas emissions among its top global risks over the next 10
years.ix Demand for food, water and energy is expected to grow by 35 percent, 40 percent and 50
percent, respectively, by 2030 (National Intelligence
Council, 2012), and because of their interdependence, problems pertaining to one resource will be
linked to supply and demand for the others.
High demands of water by agricultural production,
coupled with declining rainfall in some areas, can
lead to a dramatic depletion of non-renewable
water sources. Agriculture, including crop and livestock production, remains the biggest global water
consumer—about 70 percent of all water with163

drawn (FAOx; Hoekstra and Chapagain, 2008; OECD
and FAO, 2012). This percentage includes water
consumption for animal feed production.
Biofuel production—depending on what crop is
grown and in which region—potentially causes significant pressure on existing water resources (National Academy of Sciences, 2007). But perhaps
more important is that water used in biofuel refineries can create a significant local footprint; for example, a refinery that produces 100 million gallons of
ethanol per year uses an equal amount of water as
does a town of 5,000 people (Ibid.).
The impact of decades of overconsumption of water
can be felt in the agribusiness sector worldwide. In
several countries, such as India and Egypt, electricity for pumping groundwater and the water itself are
free if used for agricultural production. This clearly
affects levels of water use and abuse, resulting in
unsustainable water practices; for example, 85–95

percent of all water use in India and Egypt is used for
agriculture irrigation (Saeijs and van Berkel, 1995).
On a global scale, about 15–35 percent of all water
use for irrigation is considered unsustainable (WBCSD, 2005).
When water price is undervalued or water is free of
charge, the price of water consumption is not added
to the cost of the final product and trade, which
means that exporting countries trade their precious
water resources for free. Through exporting products, be it raw material, flowers, tea or industrial
goods, water utilised in the process must also be
considered as exported. In drought-affected countries, such as the Sahel belt and the Horn of Africa,
5–15 billion m3 of virtual water xi a year are being exported (see Figure 10.14), probably unaccounted for
(Mekkonen and Hoekstra, 2011) and leaving local
farmers, pastoralists and agribusinesses increasingly vulnerable to water scarcity and droughts.

Figure 10.14 Virtual water balance in Africa in terms of import (+) or export (-)

(Source: adapted from Mekkonen and Hoekstra, 2011)

164

Part II - Chapter 10

The growing demand for freshwater is posing several issues related to water availability and sourcing.
The overextraction of groundwater is irreversibly
undermining water quality. Furthermore, this practice ultimately leads to land subsidence, which increases risk from river and coastal flooding. In Bangkok, Thailand, it was estimated that the land has
subsided up to 10 cm/year, mainly owing to excessive water extraction (Lorphensri et al., 2011). This
phenomenon contributed substantially to the 2011
floods (Aon Benfield, 2012a).
Increasing demand towards finite water resources
also heightens trans-boundary conflicts. In Africa
alone, there are 59 trans-boundary river basins, accounting for 80 percent of the continent’s surface
water resources. In Arab countries, about 65 percent of annually renewable resources, including
water, originate outside the boundaries of the Arab
region, which makes these countries particularly
vulnerable to water-related disputes (Erian et al.,
2012). Similarly, Egypt relies virtually exclusively on
run-off from the Nile’s headwaters in the Ethiopian
and Equatorial Highlands several thousands of kilometres south (Calvert, Ceres and Oxfam, 2010).
The construction of the Renaissance Dam in Ethiopia may have positive outcomes for Ethiopia, but is
likely to affect water availability and security in
Egypt (Vella, 2012; Erian et al., 2012).
Climate change is likely to add more constraint on
water availability. Because of climate change, annual discharge in the Euphrates River is expected to
decrease by 29–73 percent by 2070 (compared with
its flow in 2000) (Erian et al., 2012).

10.6
	

	

Risk transferred to
smallholders and 		
pastoralists

Food insecurity and crises are linked more strongly to the accessibility rather than the availability
of food. This means that increases in agricultural
production will not necessarily result in increased
food security, particularly for low-income households.
Agribusiness investments may transfer risks and
costs to already vulnerable local communities. In
the localities and regions where these investments
are being made, already limited access to fertile
land by smallholder farmers may be further reduced. Over the past 40 years, per capita availability of farmland in Africa has halved and its distribution is highly unequal (Yumkella et al., 2011). Host
communities may lose access to productive land,
grazing areas or transhumance routes, and are dispossessed of land and water resources under customary tenure (Anseeuw et al., 2011).
Agricultural drought is already a major challenge to
smallholder farmers and pastoralists in Africa, particularly in areas of low productivity where a high
percentage of the population lives from subsistence agriculture and livestock production in marginal areas with low and irregular rainfall. In these
environments, even a small shift in seasonal precipitation can lead to major crop and livestock
losses (UNISDR, 2009).
However, the relationship between crop and livestock losses from agricultural droughts and food
insecurity is far less simple. In fact, there is no simple linear correlation between crop production
and food security (Sen, 1981; Dreze and Sen, 1989;
Bouis and Welsh, 2010; Burchi et al., 2011).
As Box 10.2 highlights, studies of household economies in sub-Saharan Africa repeatedly reveal that
subsistence agricultural production provides only a
small part of food requirements (Ruel et al., 1998;
165

Louw et al., 2007; Baiphethi and Jacobs, 2009). Most
food consumed in households is purchased or
comes from food aid and assistance, which in turn is
also often sold.
This study, with a similar study conducted in Niger
(Holt et al., 2009), also highlighted the importance
of livestock as a source of household wealth, and
explains why food crises often occur even during
good harvests. Households sell the food they produce on the market to buy staple cereals. Food
price spikes can drastically alter the terms of exchange; in other words, households cannot buy
enough food with what they are able to sell.
Food price spikes particularly affect low and middle-income countries, where households spend a

far higher proportion of their income on food than
in high-income countries. For example, in Indonesia, 46 percent of household expenditure goes to
food, compared with only 6 percent in the United
States of America (IFPRI, 2011). National food markets are closely correlated with global markets. Rising and volatile global food prices therefore impact
directly on food security and vulnerability in lowincome countries. During the 2005 food crisis in Niger, for example, malnutrition was highest in areas
with abundant production and was driven largely
by a spike in the price of millet—driven by the dynamics of the export market to Nigeria.
Similarly, an estimated 18.4 million inhabitants in
the Sahel faced a food crisis in 2012. However, cereal production in the region in 2011 was only 3

Box 10.2 Understanding the underlying causes of food insecurity and malnutrition

The Household Economy Analysis (HEA) tool is a livelihoods-based survey designed to provide a clear and accurate representation of household economies. The analysis is conducted at different levels of a wealth continuum, in different livelihood zones across a region of a country, assessing the cost of diet (COD), energetically
and nutritionally.
An analysis (below) carried out in October 2012 in the most drought-affected areas in Kenya shows a high dependency of households on purchased goods and food aid; illustrates the resilience deficit; and explains the
slow recovery after the 2011 food crisis (Fig 10.15).
Figure 10.15 Source of food per livelihood zone and wealth group in northeast Kenya

(Source: King, 2012)

(Source: Save the Children International)

166

Part II - Chapter 10

percent lower than the average of the previous five
years, and 2010 had seen a bumper harvest (Gubbels, 2012). As Box 10.3 highlights, food crises can
occur even in growing economies.
By increasing farmers’ income and assets, improving agricultural production contributes to reducing
hunger in rural areas. However, data from the Sahel and the Horn of Africa show that child malnutrition rates are not related to general food availability (Burchi et al., 2011). Despite this recognition,
there is a tendency in food security policies to focus on food production as a main solution (Bouis
and Welch, 2010).
The root causes of food insecurity in regions such as
Africa are therefore less related to agricultural
drought as to chronic vulnerability and the underlying development deficit (Gubbels, 2012). For example, during the 2010 Sahel crisis, the case-load of severe acute malnutrition (or SAM) in Niger, the
epicentre, was 320,000 children (IASC, 2012). A year
later, in 2011, Niger had exceptional rains and a record agricultural harvest. However, the case-load of
SAM dropped only slightly, to 307,000 children (Ibid.).
Because households depend so heavily on purchases or aid, food markets heavily mediate food crises.
Rising retail food prices are a particular problem for
low-income countries and low-income households,
more generally. When examining annual food price
inflation rates over the past 10 years, one can conclude that they have been both higher and more
variable in low-income countries than in OECD
countries (OECD and FAO, 2012). This is caused partly by the greater weight of basic food in the con-

sumer food basket in low-income countries.
In some countries, such as Kenya, overall food production has been increasing owing to higher productivity and despite increasing agricultural drought
(Erian et al., 2012). In other countries, such as Niger,
production has increased through developing new
cultivated areas and owing to improved rainfall,
relative to the 1980s (Ibid.). However, many African
countries are heavily dependent on imports for the
main staple foods (Mkumbwa, 2011). As Figure
10.16 shows, national production is increasingly
surpassed by consumer demand, with projected
unmet consumer needs in East African countries
by 2020 potentially increasing by 75 percent.
Between the early 1970s and early 2000s, East Africa’s import dependency ratio for cereal food
commodities grew from 6 percent to 20 percent
(Mkumbwa, 2011), leaving consumers—in particular low-income groups—vulnerable to price hikes
of staple cereals (see also Box 10.3). A key challenge for countries in today’s globalised food system is that increases in food production at the
national level are no longer directly linked to food
security. At best, the relationship is indirect; at
worst, it does not exist at all.
The import and trading of cereal crops is determined not only by national production deficits, but
also and importantly by government food and trade
policies, such as import protection and domestic
agriculture support policies, and export taxed or
bans. National food supply deficits are often subject to adjustments of regional and international
trade imbalances. For example, Malawi in 2012, de-

Box 10.3 Price increases and food insecurity in Ethiopia

Ethiopia is one of the fastest growing non-oil producing economies in Africa (African Development Bank, 2012); in
2011, the economy grew at 11.4 percent, marking the eighth consecutive year of rapid growth. In 2012, the country witnessed significant rises in food prices, e.g. wheat by 20 percent and maize, the main staple food, by 80
percent (FAO, 2012a). As a result, and despite its strong economic performance in agricultural production for export (coffee), the same year saw 3.2 million people registered in need of humanitarian assistance (FAO, 2012b).

(Source: UNISDR)

167

Figure 10.16 Future supply and demand for East African Countries

(Source: Mkumbwa, 2011)

spite a bumper harvest of 3.2 million tonnes of maize
compared with a national consumption of 2.4 million tonnes, announced an export ban to rebuildi the
national reserve. This narrowed the options of countries with a food deficit, such as Kenya, to secure
maize imports at the reduced 25 percent import tariff within the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA) as opposed to a 50 percent
tariff on imports from non-COMESA members.xii

10.7
		

A way forward? 			
Another approach to	
	
agribusiness investment

Policy and practice that continues to prioritise
humanitarian assistance over long-term investment in increasing smallholder productivity
and access to markets is becoming increasingly
unviable. New partnerships between farmers,
governments and agribusiness companies are
emerging that may more effectively strengthen
the resilience of local producers and markets.
For decades, existing policies and practices in Africa
seem to have been focused, on the one hand, on
168

Part II - Chapter 10

promoting export-oriented, commercial production in more favourable areas that have access to
more reliable rainfall, inputs, roads and markets.
They still rely today, on the other hand, on international humanitarian assistance to buffer food insecurity among smallholder farmers and pastoralists. Given the internal and external risks posed by
large agribusiness investments, on the one hand,
and continued food insecurity, despite decades of
massive investment in humanitarian assistance,
on the other hand, a new approach is urgently required. National and regional efforts, such as the
Ethiopian Government’s Productive Safety Net
Programme described in GAR11, aim to address
this challenge, but remain exceptions to an overall
trend of stagnant policies and investments.
There is a massive disproportion of spending on reducing disaster risks and strengthening resilience,
which over the last decade (2000–2009) accounted
for only 1 percent of total overseas development assistance (ODA) in the 40 countries receiving the
highest humanitarian aid (Kellet and Sparks, 2012).
Humanitarian assistance has been continuously
high over the last decades (see Figure 10.17), but is
increasingly unsustainable and has become part of

the continuation of disaster risk and food insecurity rather than part of the solution.
FAO (2011a) estimates that roughly one-third of
food produced for human consumption alone (not
counting animal feeds that take 37 percent of grain
production) is wasted. Another study shows that
potentially 30–50 percent of all food produced
never reaches a human stomach (IMECHE, 2012).
The causes of food losses in low-income countries
are mainly connected to financial, managerial and
technical limitations in harvesting techniques,
storage and cooling facilities, infrastructure and
packaging and marketing (FAO, 2011a). In medium
and high-income countries, which contribute more
to food waste than low-income countries, food
loss tends to occur at the consumption stage.
Given the dependence of food-insecure households on purchased food, investments in global logistics to reduce food waste and efforts to change
consumption patterns, coupled with improving access to food for low-income households, may do

more to increase global food security than any further investments in the intensification of production (Fava Neves, 2011; Maxwell and Slater, 2003;
Webb et al., 2006).
Investments to address infrastructure deficits may
also contribute to increased food security. In Africa, for example, a persistent infrastructure deficit
is a key determinant of low productivity and trade.
Less than 4 percent of sub-Saharan Africa’s arable
land is irrigated—a much lower proportion compared with South Asia (almost 39 percent) or Latin
America and the Caribbean (11 percent) (Yumkella
et al., 2011). Supplemental irrigation, which allows
earlier planting in appropriate time, would dramatically increase yields in those areas.
And as Table 10.1 shows, Africa’s infrastructure networks consistently lag behind those of other low-income countries. In such contexts, damage to infrastructure from even small and localised disaster
events, such as floods, can have severe implications
for the resilience of smallholder farmers as well as

Figure 10.17 Overseas development aid flows for food aid and food security

(Source: UNISDR, based on data from OECD Creditor Reporting Systemxiii)

169

big companies owing to major disruptions in market
access.

nising the business opportunities inherent in addressing existing agricultural challenges (see Box 10.4).

Agriculture promotion policies should be carefully
designed. For example, instruments—such as input
or insurance subsidies—can, on the one hand, reduce vulnerability of producers and other actors in
the agricultural value chain, but, on the other hand,
may increase overall vulnerability of the local agricultural system by facilitating production on marginal lands and possibly increasing drought exposure (Hazell and Hess, 2010).

Owing to rising agricultural commodity prices, some
multinational agribusiness corporations are now
seeing opportunities to invest in improving the productivity and strengthening the resilience of smallholder farmers.

New partnerships between smallholders, local and
national governments and large agribusiness companies may pave the way for a longer-term strategy
that effectively strengthens the resilience of smallholder farmers. More and more companies are recog-

As Box 10.5 highlights, although still controversial,
commercial initiatives are providing technology and
outreach to smallholder farmers for food production in regions with high potential and where limited
gaps in infrastructure, markets and production deficits may relatively cost-effectively relieve some risks
to natural and human capital. At the same time, investments by major global corporations raise new
concerns regarding the use of genetically modified

Table 10.1 Infrastructure deficit of Africa’s low-income countries

(Source: adapted from Foster and Briceno-Gardena, 2010)

Box 10.4 Creating shared value in agriculture in India

In India, Jain Irrigation Systems, the largest manufacturer of irrigation systems and a leading fruit and vegetable
processing business, developed a micro-irrigation system based on the principle of drip irrigation that was appropriate for smallholder farmers and that reduced water usage by 30 percent compared with commonly used
flood irrigation systems (Borgonovi et al., 2011). Targeting small farmers with less than 1 hectare of land, the
company has developed a significant new market and claims to have grown at a compounded annual growth
rate of 41 percent from 2005 to 2010 (Borgonovi et al., 2011).
Another example from the subcontinent is a public-private partnership (PPP) that seeks to address farmers’ vulnerability to volatile commodities markets. Gramin Suvidha Kendra (GSK) has established partnerships with a
variety of private companies, non-governmental organisations and government institutions, such as the state
postal departments, to provide farmers with agricultural inputs and expert advice as well as information on storage, financing and futures prices; the latter via the Multi Commodity Exchange of India Limited (MCX), a founding
partner of GSK. First surveys of participating farmers indicate real success, with 57 percent of farmers reporting
the successful use of MCX futures prices for their cropping decisions and 66 percent claiming productivity increases owing to access to improved seeds and fertilisers.

(Source: UNISDR)

170

Part II - Chapter 10

seeds and the creation of monopolistic dependence. This is despite growing recognition that in
future, new developments in biotechnology for
plant breeding to address the challenges of an increasingly changing climate will be required.
The 2008 World Development Report on Agriculture reported strong synergies between agribusiness, agriculture performance and poverty alleviation (World Bank, 2008b). Strong links between
agribusiness and smallholders via effective government policy can reduce rural poverty and increase resiliency if they are successful in promoting components critical for small farm production
as well as commercial agriculture (Figure 10.19).

Agribusiness companies usually seek to do this via
a combination of partnerships to increase opportunities for technology transfer, contract farming and
hybrid schemes of small and large-scale farming.
Many of the elements in this approach are already
well known and have been successfully demonstrated to produce results: agro-ecological approaches to agriculture, which can increase productivity, strengthen resilience and conserve
natural capital (Pretty, 2006; Altieri, 1987); decentralised natural resource management (Sekar, 2000);
investments in infrastructure and development of
markets that link smallholders to modern national
and international supply chains (Le Courtois et al.,

Box 10.5 Agribusiness investing in smallholders

Syngenta —a world leader in crop protection—recognises the productive regions of sub-Sahara as a market
that is vast and virtually untapped. In 2012, its CEO announced plans for a significant investment in smallholders across Africa.xiv
More than 75 percent of maize production is currently provided by small farmers in the region (FAO, 2011b). By
treating smallholders as individual firms, Syngenta has committed to enter into partnership agreements with
them, providing the full package of required inputs, technical services, insurance and knowledge to create viable smallholders. As smallholders get access to key inputs for increased productivity, Syngenta will invest to increasing the size of the market and with it, its overall market share (Figure 10.18), possibly creating shared value
for both groups.
Figure 10.18 Syngenta estimated global market size and crop sales

(Source: Syngenta)

171

2010); social protection, through conditional cash
transfers and temporary employment programmes
(Farrington et al., 2008; Devereux, 2003; UNISDR,
2011); and parametric crop insurance schemes (see
example in Box 10.6).
But for approaches like these to be viable, an enabling policy environment will be required, involving
all institutions engaged in property and land-holding
registration, environmental protection and land-use
departments as well as business regulators (Fava
Neves and Alves Pinto, 2012; Hill and Pittman, 2012).
In Brazil, for example, the government has been successful in promoting substantial private investment
into food and non-food agricultural production by
creating incentives through a mixture of infrastructure improvements and policy instruments (Box 10.7).
For government departments concerned with increasing growth and investment, the challenge is to
present an approach as a competitive advantage in
the context of stimulus packages for agribusiness

investments, such as the provision of local infrastructure; the regulation of environmental protection as well as human resources; taxation policies;
and research and development (Fava Neves, 2011).
Although Brazil was successful in attracting significant investment in agribusiness, the opening up of
lands to national and foreign investors, for example
in the Amazon region, has also resulted in largescale deforestation (Cattaneo, 2002).
As highlighted in Chapter 6, improved modelling of
agricultural drought and other hazards, together
with down-scaled climate scenarios can provide an
evidence base that would encourage informed investments by the agribusiness sector and more relevant and effective public policy decisions by governments.
Increasing agricultural productivity and resilience
alone will not eliminate food insecurity for highly
vulnerable rural households who rely on purchased
food and aid. However, by increasing the value and
quantity of crops smallholder farmers are able to

Figure 10.19 Components for improving the resilience of smallholder farmers

(Source: UNISDR, based on Fava Neves and Alves Pinto, 2012)

172

Part II - Chapter 10

Box 10.6 The future of index-based insurance—the R4 Rural Resilience Initiative

The challenge of how insurance of property and assets can be relevant and affordable to low-income communities has triggered a number of micro-insurance initiatives over the last two decades (UNISDR, 2009 and 2011).
Some of these instruments, such as index-based crop insurance schemes, have enjoyed remarkable success
across the globe. However, even these targeted programmes rarely reached the most vulnerable of low-income
populations—those with no land or productive assets to insure.
An innovative partnership between Swiss Re., a major global reinsurance company, the UN World Food Programme, and Oxfam, a large international development organisation, is testing and developing a new set of integrated tools to reach some of the most vulnerable populations in Africa. Building on the success of HARITA, the
first micro-insurance scheme to offer poor farmers to pay for crop insurance with their own labour, the R4 Rural
Resilience Initiative seeks to improve approaches to targeting and financing to mature the programme into a
commercially viable option that is accessible to the poorest. Success will depend on a number of factors, not
least the functioning of the partnership between public and private actors in this scheme. To date, although
these innovations have shown promising results in reaching farmers for which normal insurance schemes are out
of reach, such programmes have had to rely on heavily subsidised premiums and have not yet been scaled up to
a level that would prove their viability and sustainability.
(Source: Spiegel and Satterthwaite, in Orie and Stahel, 2012)

Box 10.7 Like moths to a flame—attracting private investment in agriculture through electricity

Secure energy supply is crucial for some agribusiness activities, as energy is necessary to operate pumps in irrigation systems, ventilators in poultry farms, cooling systems for the storage of some fresh food such as milk and
meat, etc.
In 2000, about 10 million or 80 percent of smallholder farmers in Brazil had no access to public power supply
(Government of Brazil, 2010). From 2003 to 2010, the government invested heavily to change this, and by 2010,
the budget for this initiative had reached R$20 billion (Ibid.). By September 2011, 14.2 million people had been
reached.xv Hand-in-hand with this investment, a new policy on the creation of Production Community Centres,
in which private investment was sought and supported, was established.

(Source: UNISDR)

sell and by reducing the risks of crop loss and yield
reduction, it is possible to increase income, which in
turn will allow farmers to purchase more food and
increase reserves for lean periods, building theirs
and society’s resilience to disasters.

173

Notes
i	 Category of ‘Developing countries’ as used in OECD and FAO,
2012.
ii	 OECD and FAO (2012) explain that the decrease of stock ratio in
rice is mainly caused by a contraction in China and India from the
extraordinarily high inventory levels of recent years.
iii	 Years based on the FAO Food Price Index: http://www.fao.org/
worldfoodsituation/wfs-home/foodpricesindex/en/
iv	 “Stuck on dry land,” Financial Times (Analysis), 31 July 2012.
v	 h t t p : // w w w . c p c . n c e p . n o a a . g o v / p r o d u c t s / e x p e r t _
assessment/seasonal_drought.pdf ;	
			
http://US$a01.library.cornell.edu/US$a/current/CropProd/CropProd-11-09-2012.pdf ;	
			
http://www.fao.org/worldfoodsituation/wfs-home/csdb/en/ ;	
			
http://www.fao.org/worldfoodsituation/wfs-home/foodpricesindex/en/ ;	
			
ht tp://w w w.er s .US$a.gov/topic s/in-the -news/us- drought2012-farm-and-food-impacts.aspx ;	
			
http://www.US$a.gov/oce/commodity/wasde/latest.pdf.
vi	 http://landportal.info/landmatrix; accessed 18 February 2013
only using land deals in relation to agricultural production. 	
vii	 http://www.morningstar.com/earnings/21927995-bunge-ltdbgq4-2010.aspx?pindex=2 (accessed 21 February 2013).
viii	 http://www.morningstar.com/earnings/21927995-bunge-ltdbgq4-2010.aspx?pindex=3 (accessed 21 February 2013).
ix	 http://reports.weforum.org/global-risks-2012.
x	 FAO Aquastat, www.fao.org/nr/water/aquastat/water_use/index.stm.
xi	 ‘Virtual water’ refers to the amount of water that is used by one
country by consuming goods produced somewhere else. At country
level, this water is neither accounted for in the population’s consumption nor in the country’s water demand. In the countries were
the goods are produced, this ‘virtual water’ is subtracted to the local
consumption. As this ‘virtual water’ is often not accounted for, the
water balance for these producing countries might not capture correctly the sources of shortages.
xii	 COMESA = Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa.
Source of data: Agritrade, 12 February 2012 http://agritrade.cta.int.
xiii	 http://stats.oecd.org/index.aspx?r=543569.
xiv	 Verbal communication during Naivasha Drought Experts meeting, October 2012.
xv	 http://www.brasil.gov.br/energia-en/light-for-all-program-1/
what-it-is/br_infografico?set_language=en.

174

Part II - Chapter 10

Part III

Business Strategies and
Risk Governance

177

Business investment decisions are not taken in a
vacuum. Seasoned investors weigh possible profits
and risks, deciding whether to spread risk through
insurance and how to manage uncertainty. Investors—private and institutional—operate similarly in
an attempt to maximise return on investment. Insurance companies seek to price risk so that market
share and profitability are maximised; risks are managed; and insolvency avoided. National and local
governments also compete to attract investment
while attempting to manage associated risks and
costs.
These competing interests created tension, which
requires the stakeholders involved to negotiate perceived trade-offs. But recently, the concept of
shared value and its focus on the interdependency
of business, investment, insurance and public regulation and service provision has been recognised as
a more mature approach to competitiveness (Porter

and Kramer, 2006 and 2011). When considering the
different types of risk and risk layers as laid out in
the first part of this report, businesses—ranging
from small informal traders to large multinational
corporations—may be impacted differently, but will
all have an interest in bringing down risk levels and
strengthening resilience.
For example, a small shop owner in an informal settlement who is most likely unable to take out individual insurance on his dwelling and stock will have
a vested interest in his settlement’s association and
municipality to maintain electricity, water supply
and drainage systems in case of local floods.
Although the CEO of a large diversified global consumer goods company may not be too concerned
about the flooding of one of its numerous plants located in the same municipality, the local manager
will have a vested interest in uninterrupted local

Figure III.1 Risk layers, differentiated impact on and relevant risk management strategies for business

(Source: UNISDR)

178

Part III

power supply and functioning local transport to ensure that his client base as well as his workforce is
maintained.
Similarly, although a large national company will
have adequate insurance covering its main assets,
its operations are equally vulnerable if its local small
suppliers are vulnerable to highly frequent, localised
events. Thus, effective reduction of extensive risk, if
translated into more resilient infrastructure and
communities, also reduces risk to larger businesses
(Figure III.1).
In the same way, national and local governments
that effectively reduce the more extensive layers of
risk protect not only their infrastructure investments and avoid growing liabilities for vulnerable
communities, but also contribute to an increasingly
business-friendly and enabling environment that attracts larger investments.
In the context of shared risks, how businesses, governments, investors and insurers perceive and assess disaster risk influences business decisions to
invest in hazard-exposed areas. But equally, it can
potentially motivate investments in reducing risks
and strengthening resilience, thus creating a shared
value for all stakeholders.
This subject will be the focus of Part III of this report.
Chapters 11 to 13 look at the different ways that
businesses, the finance sector and insurance industry consider disaster risks in their investment decisions. Chapters 14 and 15 then consider how different forms of risk governance mediate, regulate and
provide incentives to these processes.

179

Chapter 11

From Managing Disasters
to Managing Risks

181

Business decisions to invest in hazard-exposed areas are seldom irrational. They usually reflect a
search for spearheading competitiveness and increasing productivity by taking advantage of the
comparative advantages offered by such locations.
Businesses have yet to systematically include disaster risk considerations into this process of weighing opportunities and risks. The integration of these considerations into corporate risk management
functions is still incipient even in large businesses; and awareness of how these risks can be effectively managed is even lower.

11.1

Managing new risks:
disasters on the horizon

Risk management in the business sector continues to focus on financial, economic and legal
risks. Disaster risk is still not considered fully
even in large companies; and small enterprises
usually do not undertake systematic risk assessments.
In recent years, large businesses—particularly
those with global operations—have become increasingly sensitive to the different risks that may
affect their operations. Most large businesses employ a dedicated Chief Risk Officer and some have
dedicated risk management departments. Increasingly, overall responsibility for risk management is
at the C-Suite executive level, such as Chief Financial Officers (CFOs) or Chief Executive Officers
(CEOs) (Deloitte, 2012).

However, the focus of corporate risk management
is centred on financial, economic, market and legal
risks. Although business surveys highlight an increasing imperative to manage risks, disaster risks
are rarely considered. In recent surveys, despite
the impact of recent major disasters, disaster risk
is not listed in the top 10, 20 or 50 risks identified
(Deloitte, 2012; Lloyds, 2012; Forbes, 2012; PwC,
2012).
This practice is also reflected in curricula of many
business schools. For example, courses on Risk
Management for Corporate Leaders at Harvard
Business School and the University of Oxford’s
Global Risk Investment Management Programme
usually deal with risks such as credit risk, currency
risk and reputation risk, but few schools explicitly
include disaster risk in their risk management curriculum.

Box 11.1 Managing risks of local public entities through public-private partnerships (PPPs)

In 2011, one of the world’s leading consulting and insurance brokerage firms engaged in open dialogue with local and national governments on how to integrate disaster risk management practices into public risk governance structures. Marsh Risk Consulting, part of the Marsh and McLennan group, subsequently developed practical guidance for local governments on the adoption of the ISO Standard 31000 to their policies, practices and
administrative structures (Marsh, 2011).
Recognising that the ISO standard neither explicitly mentions disaster risk nor lends itself easily to the functions of public administration, this initiative has brought principles of private sector risk management and public sector planning processes closer together. Perhaps more important, it has articulated clearly the need for
proactive planning and risk assessment beyond the usual focus on response preparedness and contingency
planning. Citing the example of the largest leaser of social housing in France, the Caisse des Dépôts Group (SNI),
Marsh highlights that this conglomerate carries out systematic risk-benefit analyses ahead of any new investment (Marsh, 2011).

(Source: UNISDR)

182

Part III - Chapter 11

Figure 11.1 Percentage of companies with business continuity plans or crisis management programmes (by company size)v

28.7

57.2

23.3

65.8

37.5

20.1

39.6

37.2
33.8

18.8

14.1

(Source: Sarmiento and Hoberman, 2012)

Similarly, international standards are not yet fully
articulating disaster risk dimensions. For example,
although the ISO 31000 standard on risk management can be adapted to any type of risk, it does not
explicitly highlight disaster risk.i This gap has been
identified, and companies are taking initiatives to
address it (see Box 11. 1).

over the last three years. Of these, 53 percent were
now investing to strengthen risk management—for
example, protecting operations and offices and
bolstering supply chains (UKTI, 2011).

After witnessing large disasters, global businesses
are now beginning to consider how to manage disaster risks. For example, a 2011 poll of 1,000 senior
global executives highlighted that 29 percent had
been financially affected by the 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake and accompanying nuclear disaster (PwC, 2012). And 24 percent of these were taking
measures to strengthen their risk management capacities (Ibid.).

Supply chain resilience has attracted particular attention because risk has increased through globalisation (see Chapter 2 of this report). Factors that influence supply chain vulnerability include:
dependence, for example, to what extent is the supply chain dependent on one single supplier; visibilty,
to what extent is the supply chain risk visible; and
design information portability and substitution,
how quickly can design information be transferred
from one affected supplier to another and how
quickly can production be resumed at the substitute supplier (Fujimoto, 2011).

In another poll, 90 percent of businesses stated that
they had suffered weather-related disaster impacts

Many smaller businesses, however, face a challenge
in addressing disaster risk. Having an emergency
183

plan in place is key in explaining business performance after major events (Corey and Deitch, 2011),
but, as Figure 11.1 shows, a survey carried for this report in six disaster-prone cities of the Americasii highlighted that less than one-fifth (18.8 percent) of all
surveyed businesses had a business continuity plan,
and in highly risk-prone cities such as Bogota and
San José, the percentage was even lower. Similarly,
almost one-fourth was unable to estimate costs of a
major disruption to their business (Sarmiento and
Hoberman, 2012). In fact, although many methods
and tools exist to meas ure the value and exposure of
business interruption, there are difficulties in assessing this fully against other dimensions that need to be
considered, i.e. time, revenue and costs.iii
In particular, small and medium enterprises (SMEs)
are more likely to lack risk awareness or struggle to
find the capacity to manage disaster risks, mainly
owing to financial, human resource and technical
limitations (Wedawatta et al., 2010; Corey and Deitch, 2011; Battisti and Deakins, 2012). Of companies with at least 500 employees, about 37 percent
had a business continuity plan or crisis management programme in place, but companies with
less than 100 employees, as few as 14.1 percent
had a plan (Figure 11.1).iv

These findings are validated in other regions (Villarroel, 2012). SMEs are often more vulnerable per se
and more likely to be located in less-resistant buildings and have a smaller, more localised customer
base (UNDP, 2013; Battisti and Deakins, 2012). They
usually do not engage in hazard management programmes and lack financial resources for recovery
(Villarroel, 2012; Vitez, 2009).
Few SMEs have been able to articulate the case for
or to strengthen their capacities to manage disaster
risks. Where the case has been made, however, emphasis is on preparedness, such as evacuation plans
and response measures, rather than on prospectively managing disaster risks (Sarmiento and
Hoberman, 2012; UNDP, 2013). Very small and family-owned businesses—for example, fishing enterprises in low and middle-income countries—face
even tighter constraints on their ability to invest in
risk reduction. However, as Box 11.2 explains, certain simple measures have enabled businesses to
survive disasters.

Box 11.2 Successfully reducing losses on the coast of Yucatan, Mexico

Hurricane Isisdore struck the southeastern coast of Mexico in 2002, resulting in economic losses of US$500 million on the Peninsula of Yucatan. Of this, US$8 million were estimated damages to the fishery industry, mainly
from loss or damage of fishing boats and boat motors. The hurricane severely impacted small producers and
holders of small ruminants, chicken and pigs. Learning from this experience, farmers and fishermen with the
support of local governments developed risk management strategies to reduce future losses. These included
safeguarding fishing equipment, such as boats and motors, and relocating farms to safe areas.
The local government of the municipality of San Felipe purchased land two kilometres from the shore and distributed it to 60 small producers. Although farmers remained in their original villages, they moved their livestock to safe ground. Similarly, fishermen negotiated access to cattle trucks and storehouses 15 kilometres inland where they could keep their fishing equipment safe. These strategies saved them approximately US$35,000
per fisherman when in 2005, Hurricane Wilma hit.
Neighbouring municipalities have since adopted these risk-reducing strategies; it has been estimated that each
municipality has saved about US$6.5 million.

(Source: Cuevas, 2012)

184

Part III - Chapter 11

Box 11.3 New attitudes to risk in large global businesses

Global consulting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers and UNISDR are collaborating on a global initiative to better
understand and support disaster risk management in the private sector. In-depth conversations and 11 risk
management workshops with 14 large companies with a global footprint and therefore increasing risk exposure
took place (Table 11.1).
Table 11.1 Companies participating in a global initiative on comprehensive disaster risk management for national businesses and global corporations

Company
ABB
ARUP
BG - British Gas

Country

Industry

Switzerland

Industrial Products

India

Structural Engineering

United Kingdom

Energy, Mining

Citigroup

United State of America

Financial products and sevices

GE - General Electric

United State of America

Conglomerate - Infrastructure and Finance

HCC - Hindustan Construction Company

India

Infrastructure

HIRCO

India

Real Estate investment

Japan

Conglomerate - Infrastructure and Finance

Hitachi
IHG - InterContinental Hotels Group
Nestlé
NTT - Nippon Telegraph and Telephone
Roche
SPCL - Shapoorji Pallonji & Co. Ltd
Walmart

United Kingdom

Hospitality

Switzerland

Nutrition, Health and Wellness

Japan

Telecommunications

Switzerland

Healthcare

India

Construction

United State of America

Retail

(Source: PwC, 2013)

A few initial trends and new approaches can be identified. Senior managers consistently acknowledge that
disasters have impacted their operations, and will continue to do so, with dire consequences in the future. They
also recognise that indirect losses, through supply chain interruptions, can be as severe if not worse than direct
losses. However, shared risks and costs represented by the wider and macroeconomic impacts of disasters are
not yet fully considered.
Few global corporations collaborate actively with national and local governments across the countries in which
they operate. But there is also concern among business managers that an in-depth engagement with governments
may delay processes and obstruct effective business operations. There is, however, ad hoc collaboration and
information sharing among industry peers.
Disaster risk management focus in most corporations remains centred on business continuity planning. Most
businesses are engaging in some form of disaster risk assessment and management for their supply chains, and
are increasingly moving towards the setting of risk management standards, which suppliers have to comply
with.
Some corporations rely on the insurance industry for risk information and assessments, and most have only
limited access to disaster risk models and information. This limits their disaster risk awareness or capacity to
factor this information into investment decisions.
To date, disaster risk management usually falls under the responsibility of dedicated supply chain management
functions rather than as an integral part of business development and investment planning. However, a shift is
taking place where companies are moving strategic consideration of disaster risk to the level of senior
management and advisory boards.

(Source: PwC, 2013vi)

185

11.2

					gagement to agree on policies, strategies and plans
to manage disaster risks or to develop appropriate
Emerging practices

Global businesses have risk management strategies for their own assets and operations in place.
Owing to recent experience, a number are now
demanding risk assessments along their supply
chain. But only a few are beginning to take the
lead on a broader approach to disaster risk.
New perspectives on business risk management
are emerging, however. In the case of global corporations, additional consultations carried out for
this report indicate a gradual shift in perspective.
As Box 11.3 highlights, large global businesses are
starting to move from a narrow focus on business
continuity planning towards a broader approach
to prospectively manage their disaster risks. However, these changes are still incipient and are only
reflected in more recent (three-to-four year) risk
management policies.
This gradual widening of focus from business continuity planning to a more comprehensive and strategic approach to disaster risk management mirrors
developments in the public sector where central
planning and finance ministries begin to assess disaster risks and integrate disaster risk considerations into national planning and accounting processes (UNISDR, 2011). Unfortunately, there are still
few channels or forums for joint public-private enFigure 11.3 Company risk management strategies

(Source: PwC, 2013)

186

Part III - Chapter 11

risk governance arrangements.

In addition, where corporations have a global remit,
their incentives to engage with local or national regulators and actors may be limited. Through diversifying their supply chains in different industry sectors
they may, on the one hand, increase their vulnerability to disaster risks in specific locations; on the other
hand, they may spread their risks and increase their
room to manoeuvre in times of crises or when facing
tough regulations in particular locations.
A number of large global businesses are now demanding risk assessments from small businesses
that are key suppliers. A few companies have successfully combined enhanced information of potential disruptions, supply chain and financial impact
with simulations of disaster events to reach a more
comprehensive understanding of risk drivers and
geographical concentration of risk as a basis for
their supply chain management (Box 11.4).
But disaster risk management has also been recognised as a business development opportunity, particularly because of long-term climate change. A recent study of SMEs in Germany shows that the range
of products and tools for risk management—particularly in flood management, which businesses already market—is significant and has the potential to

Box 11.4 Cisco’s comprehensive, proactive risk management programme

Learning from the impact of the Chengdu earthquake of 2008, Cisco, one of the largest global providers of networking equipment, has developed a sophisticated supply chain crisis management system that allows it to
proactively manage disaster risks to its assets and operations. Including its worldwide network of supply chain
partners, the company combines business continuity planning information with supply chain visibility and disaster risk data, identifying hotspots before and during a crisis (Harrington and O’Connor, 2009).
The use of a risk engine enables Cisco to assess the likelihood of supply chain disruptions and to generate heat
maps based on likelihood and impact (Figure 11.2). This engine incorporates complex datasets, including data
on flood risk, geology and geopolitics, supplier performance, as well as actuarial data (Ibid.). This tool provides
the basis for accumulation of comprehensive information on drivers, trends and patterns of risk and thus for
success of Cisco’s resilient supply chains.
Figure 11.2 Risk engine used by Cisco

(Source: Adapted from Harrington and O’Connor, 2009)

187

expand and include prospective risk management
(DKKV, 2012).
A number of businesses also recognise the value of
collaborating and sharing their knowledge and expertise with the public sector (PwC, 2013). However,
although several joint initiatives exist, mid- to longterm collaboration both among the private sector
and with the public sector are isolated, insufficient
and at early stages of maturity (Ibid., 2013). One limiting factor is the lack of familiarity and leverage of
private sector skills and know-how by public institutions; as a result, existing initiatives on each side are
not well aligned, and collaboration remains an untapped opportunity to date (Ibid.).
Businesses usually employ four distinctive strategies—similar to those considered by governments
or communities—to manage exposure to risks, depending on their risk appetite and exposure profile
(Figure 11.3).
However, when global corporations were asked
about their existing disaster risk management strategies, many show low levels of maturity vis-à-vis
long-term risk reduction and prospective risk management (PwC, 2013; and Box 11.4 above). This

means that although there are good practices to be
shared in understanding and responding to immediate risks to corporate assets, longer-term risks
and risks to supply chains are less well understood
(Figure 11.4).
Unsurprisingly, levels of maturity in understanding
asset exposure and associated risks vary significantly. Although many companies rely on insurance
providers to conduct risk assessments of their major assets, innovative examples exist. One of the
global corporations consulted for this report creates
‘heat maps’ of each of its sites by overlaying company data on hazard and risk maps, setting up global
risk standards and creating local compliance registers in line with the company’s global risk standards
(PwC, 2013).
In addition, a process of positive and negative incentives and regular annual audits ensures increased and monitored levels of compliance (Ibid.).
New initiatives towards developing integrated disaster risk management frameworks for the private
sector (Figure 11.5) are promising steps in the direction of more effective business and public-private
risk reduction.

Figure 11.4 Level of maturity using number of good practices as a proxy

(Source: PwC , 2013)

188

Part III - Chapter 11

Figure 11.5 Towards a disaster risk management framework for the private sector (under development)

(Source: PwC, 2013)

Notes
i	 However, there is a promising sign that ISO 22301 Business Continuity Management may address disaster risk more directly, including a proactive approach for disaster reduction.
ii	 This survey, carried out by Florida International University (FIU),
York University and the Central American Institute for Business Management (INCAE), covered Vancouver, Canada; Miami, United States
of America; Kingston, Jamaica; San Jose, Costa Rica; Bogota, Colombia; and Santiago, Chile.

iv	 A similar survey carried out for Japanese companies just after
the Great East Japan Earthquake reports that the reasons for lack
of BCP in 2,865 SMEs were lack of know-how (42.1%), lack of need
(35.3%), lack of human resources (33.1%), lack of time (26.35%) and
lack of financial cost (22.1%) (Teikoku Databank, Ltd, 2011, http://
www.tdb.co.jp/report/watching/press/pdf/k110601.pdf.).
v	 Total N is 1,198 with n=939 for less than 100 employees, n=210
for 100–499 employees, and n=49 for 500+ employees.
vi	 Additional information directly provided by PwC based on
workshop discussions and internal reports.

iii	 Dempsey, Myers and Company: Business Interruption Values
and Exposures. Quinnipiac University, 14 June 2006: http://www.
google.de/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=dempsey%20myers%20%26%20company%20business%20interruption%20time%20revenue%20cost&
source=web&cd=1&ved=0CCwQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.
theccic.org%2FCustomer-Content%2FWWW%2FCMS%2Ffiles%2F
2nd_session2.ppt&ei=d_0wUZn0CoSOtQaf1IDIDw&usg=AFQjCNH
lS_NrnrBRx-YiDdvfZ0iNB9buJA.

189

190

Part III - Chapter 11

Chapter 12

Risk Blind Investing

191

Financial markets have expanded since the 1980s, but the right incentives to integrate disaster risk
management into business investment decisions have not been provided.
Investing has become an increasingly short-term and speculative activity, losing sight of longerterm and systemic risks. At the same time, asset owners and beneficiaries of pension and sovereign
wealth funds have become increasingly disconnected from how their money is being invested,
weakening responsible and accountable investment behaviour.
Risks, including disaster risks, are rarely visible, hidden in complex and opaque financial instruments. And analytical reports, models and forecasts ignore disaster risk. This has a profound effect
on the way investment markets operate, building up new hidden risks in private finance.

12.1

Deregulation and
expansion of financial capital

United States of America alone amounted to almost US$20 trillion (Ibid.).

The inherent logic of expanding and increasingly
fast-moving capital markets has created new
risks that materialised with severe global effects
in the financial crash of 2007–2008. Disaster risk
is another hidden risk that financial markets are
still ignoring.

The financial market has developed the ability to
respond and adapt quickly to benefit from shortterm profit-making opportunities. However, markets are more challenged to account for longerterm risks and liabilities or for systemic risks, as
has been demonstrated in the financial crisis that
began in 2007 (Clements-Hunt, 2012; Ritter 2004).

The deregulation of financial markets since the
1980s has stimulated a staggering increase in the
volume of financial capital linked to increasingly
short-term investment behaviour and speculation
(UNCTAD, 2011). By the end of 2010, total value of financial assets across the globe had reached US$212
trillion (comprising equity market capitalisation and
outstanding bonds and loans).
At the same time, financial capital has been concentrated in a limited number of large institutions
and in a largely unregulated ‘shadow banking system’ (UNCTAD, 2011). This shadow banking system
is a complex value chain of intermediaries, including investment banks, hedge funds and equity
funds and instruments that enable assets to be
moved around the world through a large number
of financial instruments that enable investment in
physical assets as well as in production and services (Ibid.). The scale of this shadow banking system has become so vast that by early 2008, it was
estimated that assets under its management in the
192

Part III - Chapter 12

Recent surveys of investors’ perceptions and incentives for investments in low-income countries and
emerging markets have revealed the following top
catalysts—market size or access, human resources
and domestic institutions, banking services, and
political and economic forecasts (WEF, 2012; IIGCC,
2010; Bhinda and Martin, 2009). Perceived risks do
not include the likelihood of loss owing to disasters
but rather electricity supply constraints, corruption,
interest rates, inflation and tax-related issues (Bhinda and Martin, 2009; UNCTAD, 2011).
The number of investors who explicitly consider
how investments produce disaster risks remains unknown, particularly in the case of large hedge funds,
government bonds and commodities (IIGCC, 2010).
And the business case for risk-neutral investment is
often undermined by uncertainties about public
policy response (e.g. the price of carbon; land-use
and zoning regulations; insurance legislation) and
even, despite amassed evidence to the contrary

(IPCC, 2012), by a “lack of confidence in the materiality of climate change” (Ibid.: p.29).

12.2
			

Hidden risks in the
institutional investment 	
value chain

Investors and their fund managers are far removed from the consequences of the investment decisions they take, all but erasing effective accountability. In addition, the increasing
complexity of investment products and trading
systems has resulted in an opaque system that
creates hidden risks, including disaster risk.
The institutional investment value chain includes institutional investors such as pension funds, mutual
funds, sovereign wealth funds, hedge funds, insurance funds and private equity; and intermediaries,
such as investment banks, asset managers and investment consultants (Cambridge Programme for
Sustainable Leadership, 2011a).
Institutional investors manage assets worth more
than US$80 trillion globally (Ibid.) on behalf of hundreds of millions of beneficiaries such as employees, in the case of pension funds; national citizens,
in the case of sovereign wealth funds; premium
holders, in the case of insurance funds; and rich in-

dividuals, in the case of foundation-based or high
net worth wealth managers (Clements-Hunt, 2012).
Figure 12.1 highlights how this value chain delegates
responsibility for investment decision-making
through a diverse ecosystem of intermediaries with
only limited mechanisms for reporting and accountability back to beneficiaries or first investors.
Although intermediaries ultimately have a fiduciary
responsibility vis-à-vis original investors (beneficiaries), their primary role is to identify investment opportunities that benefit from a certain level of risk
and return. These investments are made across a
range of financial instruments, including the trading
of stocks and bonds. In particular, trading activity in
so-called over-the-counter (OTC) markets significantly outweighs turnover on closely regulated and
more transparent public stock markets (ClementsHunt, 2012).
Asset managers rarely consider disaster risk when
making investments. The increasing distance between these managers and beneficiaries means
that the latter are increasingly disconnected from
how their investment portfolios are being managed,
including how much is at risk from disasters. And
because the financial market has become increasingly disjointed from the real economy, it generates
a further disconnection between asset managers
and how the invested money is ultimately used.

Figure 12.1 The institutional investment value chain (simplified)

(Source: UNISDR, adapted from Clements-Hunt, 2012)

193

Box 12.1 European and US pension funds buy farmland in South America and Africa

Through TIAA-CREF, the leading US financial services company and the main provider of retirement services for
US academic and research sectors, a number of pension funds, including from Sweden and Canada, have begun to invest heavily into farmland development across the globei. Direct investment into agricultural production on commercial farms in South America and Africa produces high returns. As Chapter 11 in this report highlighted, these investments may not only internalise risks to the business, but also by extension to the investor.
They may also externalise risks, for example, to displaced smallholder farmers and pastoralists or through the
overexploitation of land and water resources.
Another big institutional investor, TLG Capital, announced in October 2012 its investment in an agricultural
fund—EmVest—which manages more than 10,000 hectares of land across sub-Saharan Africa. TLG and EmVest
have invested about US$65 million across the region and are expecting to expandii.
Recently, however, TIAA-CREF joined a number of European institutional investors to launch the Farmland Principles—a commitment to not invest in deals with high environmental or social costs or rights violations (Grain,
2012), suggesting that social demand—expressed in the United States of America and Europe through campaigns against investment strategies—can create disincentives.

(Source: UNISDR)

As the volume of financial capital has ballooned,
so have the hidden risks—as the financial crisis
that began in 2007 manifested. The increasing sophistication, complexity and opaqueness of financial instruments means that securities and bonds
for businesses with high levels of disaster risk are
bought and sold without considering how these
risks may affect asset values (Clements-Hunt,
2012).
Even where risks are recognized and their impact
on a particular asset is considered, willingness to
invest in the asset can prevail because part of the
risk tends to be transferred to the public sector or
to other sectors and countries, and thus becomes
shared risk. In other words, the risk is considered
an externality for the business and therefore to the
investment. For example, global investment in
emissions-heavy industrial activity, such as coal
mining, continues to increase—in 2010, total investment by banks in coal mining was almost double
the amount before the financial crisis (Petherick,
2012).
Much of this investment is hidden within complex
and aggregated corporate loans, funded by large
funds or banks whose individual investors rarely
know what specific activities are being financed
194

Part III - Chapter 12

(Ibid.). Beneficiaries in high-income countries with
well-established pension funds may unknowingly
be benefiting through transferring disaster risk to
countries most at risk or, as the example in Box
12.1 shows, by investing in agricultural practices
that increase drought risk.

12.3
			

Eyes wide shut:
consistently discounting 	
disaster risk

Economic growth projections and business forecasts at different levels do not account for disaster risks. The implications of disasters on a country’s fiscal policy, infrastructure and utilities, and
overall enabling business environment are not
understood with potentially serious consequences for business investment decisions.
The global crisis that began in 2007 demonstrated
that investment decisions that are rational from an
individual perspective can generate correlated and
systemic risks to the financial system as a whole
(Castells et al., 2012). Because investment decisions
tend to be based on broadly similar risk models,
analyses and forecasts, markets tend to become increasingly correlated and concatenated and hence

the risk increasingly systemic. By mid-2009, global
wealth valued at US$28.8 trillion, captured in equity
and real estate values, had been lost in the resulting
meltdown (McKinsey Global Institute, 2009).
In the same way, and as the Thailand floods epitomised, individual business investment decisions in
hazard-exposed areas can, over time, generate
systemic global disaster risks. The preceding years
of profit-oriented investment may have resulted in
2011 as the year with the largest disaster-related
economic and insurance losses ever (Orie and Stahel, 2012; Ferris and Petz, 2012; Worldwatch Institute, 2012). Investors seem to underestimate or are
blind to systemic risk, whether associated with

sub-prime mortgages or hazard-exposed industrial estates (White and Fan, 2006).
Information on the economic risks associated with
disasters, climate change or water scarcity is readily available. In 2002, for example, a group of financial institutions predicted that economic losses associated with disasters and climate change would
amount to US$150 billion per year (UNEP FI, 2002).
This figure was surpassed just three years later,
when Hurricane Katrina hit the US coast in 2005. In
2007, a revised scenario was developed that predicted potential losses owing to climate change of
US$1 trillion per year by 2040 (UNEP FI, 2007).

Box 12.2 No more forecasting blind spots—applying future risk lenses

The Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU), one of the world’s leading institutes for economic, political and social
analysis, provides, among other information services, economic forecasts, risk and country briefings to businesses and public sector actors alike. These briefings and underlying data are widely used and globally referenced, and thus have a substantial level of influence on the public understanding of future risks and economic
projections. These country and sector forecasts do not include risks associated with natural hazards, as the
methodology of the EIU explicitly excludes assessments of future hazard and risk.
For example, the 2012 country report of Indonesia, one of the world’s highly hazard-prone countries, does not
address disaster risk at all (EIU, 2012a). The 2012 Kenya country report addresses drought risk more clearly.
However, it is not integrated in the economic forecast model. Instead the report describes that policy-making
will remain vulnerable to exogenous shocks, which include drought and volatile commodity prices, and continues to warn that droughts would pose downside risks to GDP growth forecasts, calculated at 4.8 percent for
2013 (EIU, 2012b).
However, specific analysis that is tailor-made for individual clients may include disaster risk analysis upon request. Further, in the aftermath of a disaster, regular country reports do refer to these events and their impacts
on economic performance. For example, in case of Haiti, which was recently hit by tropical storms, including
Hurricane Sandy, and is still in the reconstruction process, the country report addresses disaster risk in several
places. Thus, the economic impact of past disasters caused, for example, by agricultural loss or physical capital
damage is woven into the economic forecast, but the probability of future disaster risk is not (EIU, 2012c).
Although excluding disaster risk from standard forecasts may seem surprising from a disaster risk manager’s
point of view, from the perspective of an economic forecaster, it makes good sense. For example, the short time
period of forecasts—two years in the case of EIU forecasts—means that including disaster risk probabilities is a
tricky exercise.
New developments in probabilistic risk modelling and assessments, however, and increasingly sophisticated
concepts of resilient economies and supply chains in the business sector could change this trend and help the
emergence of a new generation of economic forecasts. The EIU has recognised the significant impact that disaster events can have on economic and business performance and is therefore considering an integration of
relevant indicators for disaster risk into its models (EIU, 2012d). Although in its infancy, this process could greatly enhance the understanding of other dimensions of economic and business resilience than those currently
dominating and limiting investment decision-making.

(Source: UNISDR)

195

Box 12.3 Forecasting risk—lessons from Thailand?

In October 2011, only a few weeks before the country’s economy was engulfed by the Chao Phraya river floods,
the EIU, a major source for country risk profiles generated by businesses and investors across the globe, forecast an expansionary fiscal policy of the Thai Government for 2012 and estimated GDP growth of 3.8 percent in
2011 to 4.8 percent in 2012 (EIU, 2011a).
After the floods shut down more than 14,000 businesses nationwide, this estimate of real GDP growth was revised downwards to 2.5 percent in November and to 1.2 percent in December (EIU, 2011b & 2011c; Atradius,
2011). Political and related policy forecasts had to be revised also owing to expected repercussions from the
floods.
A few months earlier, an investor country briefing by a major bank, based heavily on EIU data, did note that the
export-heavy Thai economy was “very vulnerable to external demand shocks” (Rabobank, 2011), and had been
affected by the Japan disaster in March 2011. Yet its growth projections for Thailand in 2011 remained unchanged.
An empirical study of the relationship between foreign direct investment (FDI) flows and the occurrence of disasters over the last 40 years in Thailand shows that investment has not been influenced by disaster occurrence
in general, and floods in particular (Figure 12.2; Thampanishvong, 2012).

Figure 12.2 FDI and disaster occurrence in Thailand from 1970 to 2011

(Source: Thampanishvong, 2012, based on data from Bank of Thailand and EM-DAT)

However, other studies covering 94 countries over a 20-year period have found a negative and significant relationship between disasters and FDI (Escaleras and Register, 2011).
In Thailand’s 2012 economic forecast briefing, flood risk is mentioned, suggesting that the “perfect storm of
factors that combined to produce the floods in 2011” were not in place for 2012 (EIU, 2012e). Yet, it cautions that
the risk of renewed flooding had not disappeared and notes that investor confidence had not been restored,
exacerbated by intra-government conflict over water management and flood drainage between the city of
Bangkok and surrounding areas.

(Source: UNISDR)

196

Part III - Chapter 12

Public domain global disaster risk information developed for the GAR has been available since 2009iii
and similar information published since 2004 (UNDP,
2004; World Bank, 2005). Commercial risk models
are also produced for the insurance industry.
But this information is not generally included in
business surveys, economic forecasts and country
briefings that guide investors and credit ratings.
Even in high-risk countries, disaster risk is rarely
mentioned, contrary to quality and availability of labour, access to export markets, political and economic stability and incentives, such as tax breaks.
Forecasters consider disaster risk too uncertain and
volatile, particularly over the relatively short periods
that are used for forecasting, to allow the integration of expected impacts into economic growth projections (see Box 12.2).
Global reference reports such as the International
Monetary Fund’s World Economic Outlook and the
Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development’s Economic Outlook do not include disaster
risk into their economic modelling, possibly owing
to the difficulty of estimating disaster risk per se and
lack of consensus on the possible impact of disasters on economies.
Even in a weather-sensitive sector such as agribusiness, forecasts in 2011 and 2012 did not consider disaster risk-related factors in their projections. Thus,
the risk of a global food spike posed by the 2012
drought in North America was not identified (see
Chapter 10).
In these projections, other risk factors and uncertainties, such as fluctuating crude oil prices or exchange rates, are considered but disaster risk is
not. Despite recent weather-related impacts on
global commodity markets, these projections
claim to provide “a baseline for further analysis of
alternative economic or policy assumptions” and
to analyse the conditions for “increasing agricultural productivity in a sustainable manner” (Ibid.).

Similarly, as Box 12.3 shows, even while water levels
were rising in Thailand in October 2011, none of the
major forecasting agencies and analysts warned of
potential impacts on economic activity. This was
certainly not because information on flood risk was
not publicly available,iv but more likely because of a
low level of awareness of disaster risk by economic
forecasters and risk analysts and the difficulties of
incorporating disaster risk-related metrics in their
work.

12.4

					
Winds of change

Recent efforts of investor groups concerned
with climate change have begun to show results with 10 percent of global investment managers now integrating environmental, social
and governance (ESG) issues into their investment process (IIGCC, 2010).
Increasingly, companies, investors and governments are recognizing that more transparency in
business practices, the spread of investment portfolios and patterns of natural resources consumption may create opportunities for greater efficiency
and effectiveness in business operations (CDP,
2011). Correspondingly, a growing number of resources are available today for companies and investors to assess and disclose physical risks, particularly climate-related risks (Calvert, Ceres, and
Oxfam, 2012).
Regulators are also requiring that businesses disclose hidden risks. For example, the Climate
Change Act in the United Kingdom in 2008 led to a
requirement that companies in the energy, water
and transport sectors publish a report on the risks
posed by the impact of climate change. And the
Canadian Securities Administration (CSA) has issued similar guidance (Calvert, Ceres and Oxfam,
2012). Although currently these requirements only
refer to climate related risks, in the future they
could also address other disaster risks, for exam197

ple, associated with earthquakes, tsunamis, volcanic eruptions and landslides.

ments that generate environmental and social
costs.

A changing approach to investment is also taking
root in some large institutional investors. For example, the Government Employees Pension Fund of
South Africa has recognized that the information
available and used in each stage of the investment
chain is asymmetric. This means that providers of
investment opportunity know more than investors
and control the information of those whose money
they manage (IISD et al., 2012). In addition, regulation is encouraging long-term investors, such as
large pension funds, to invest in securities with low
risk to ensure liquidity and stability of their portfolios. The South African pension fund is seeking to diversify its portfolio by investing in longer-term development projects across the country (Ibid.).

The threat of falling equity prices or negative analyst
ratings for businesses that do not manage or disclose their disaster risks may in time become a powerful incentive that rewards those businesses and
governments, which more effectively manage those
risks.

One of the largest sovereign wealth funds, the Norwegian Pension Fund Global, is another example. It
passively invests in more than 8,000 companies
worldwide and yet has established standards for environmental, social and governance issues to be
taken into account in all of these. However, to quantify the benefits to these initiatives and to estimate
the cost of externalized risks is not a trivial exercise,
particularly when it comes to valuing natural capital. As a result, performance criteria for investment
contracts and loans that take natural capital – and
disaster risk considerations – into account have yet
to be identified (Cambridge Programme for Sustainable Leadership 2011b). Recent initiatives are now
addressing this gap (TEEB, 2010) though there is still
a need to link the real costs of externalities such as
environmental pollution, the destruction of natural
capital or the cost of increased disaster risk.
While these changes still involve a minute proportion of the total value of global financial assets, they
do indicate a change in direction. These changing
values are now guiding both regulators concerned
with reducing systemic risks as well as investors
who want to protect their investments against such
risks and at the same time avoid making invest198

Part III - Chapter 12

Notes
i	 https://www.tiaa-cref.org /public/about/press/about _us/
releases/articles/pressrelease422.html and http://www.top1000funds.com/news/2011/06/08/swedish-fund-goes-farmingfor-diversification/.
ii	 http://www.emvest.com/latest_news_media.aspx.
iii	 http://www.preventionweb.net/english/maps/?pid:34&pif:3.
iv	 A flood risk model including Thailand has been available since
2009. http://www.preventionweb.net/english/hyogo/gar/2011/en/
what/rdp.html.

Chapter 13

Securing Investment Insurance Revisited

199

Insurance pricing and availability has a major influence on business investment decisions and behaviour. Currently, a number of disincentives work against the adequate pricing of disaster risk: on
the one hand, expensive premiums may make investment unattractive; on the other hand, overly low
premiums can exacerbate the discounting of future risk, potentially resulting in the creation of new
disaster risk.
In rapidly growing economies, particularly in Asia, insurance penetration is spreading faster than disaster risks are being reduced. The over-supply of capital through insurance-linked securities may
also distort risk pricing. It also generates fiscal risks when premiums are not risk-based and public
sector institutions with limited experience of the insurance market are involved.

13.1
			

Creating an enabling 	
environment for effective 	
insurance

Insurance can potentially play an important role
in disaster risk reduction, but only where the enabling environment allows for appropriate pricing and coverage. Governments and insurance
companies are yet to take full advantage of this
potential.
Insurance pricing and availability has a major influence on business investment decisions and behaviour. Unless assets such as factories and other facilities can be insured, businesses cannot obtain loans
and other forms of finance. Expensive premiums
may make the investment unattractive, making the
business look elsewhere. Conversely, however,
when premiums are too low, businesses may be encouraged to overly discount the risks and invest in
hazard-exposed areas, accumulating disaster risks
for themselves and creating wider risks and costs.
Insurance is one of the main financial tools for households and companies to strengthen their disaster
resilience. This is achieved by spreading the risk of
exceptional disaster loss among a large number of
policyholders and over a long time. Insurers compensate disaster damages in return for the premiums
each insurance buyer paid ex-ante, in accordance with
the agreed contract. Although few financial institutions
undertake an overall assessment of disaster risk,
most require insurance coverage as a condition for
200

Part III - Chapter 13

providing loans to businesses. This chapter will discuss how insurance can be a useful financial tool
for businesses and individuals to strengthen their
resilience, competitiveness and sustainability.
Although the details of insurance coverage vary
widely, insurance rarely guarantees business continuity or protects businesses from the wider impacts of disaster. Insurance can provide protection
from asset loss and even supply chain interruption,
but does not compensate for wider effects like low
employee morale, increased absenteeism, stress or
unrest, low productivity, declining customer demand and goodwill, and other impacts (Kataria and
Zerjav, 2012). In other words, insurance is not a substitute for sound risk-based investment decisions.
Additionally, the insurance required when applying
for a loan does not necessarily cover all hazards,
resulting in limited payouts to affected households
or businesses and even countries, in the case of
national catastrophe insurance. For example, in
Australia, an ‘insurance gap’ exists whereby different definitions of flood by insurers limited the insurance payout after the 2010–2011 floods, and
brought confusion and frustration among insurance buyers (World Bank, 2011).
Similarly, when governments insure their sovereign
risk, instruments such as catastrophe bonds may
be effective in avoiding short-term welfare losses
and reinforcing macroeconomic stability, but generate no net income. If, following a disaster, income

declines in the long term, the primary gains from
the smoothing obtained from reinsurance, contingency loans and catastrophe bonds are obtained
by delaying losses (Hsiang and Jina, 2012). Insurance alone and in itself, in other words, does not enable disaster-affected countries to catch up and
cannot substitute for investments in risk reduction
(Hamdan, 2012).
In principle, insurance should also act as a powerful
incentive for disaster risk reduction. An insurance
premium should represent the economic value of
risk, which in a perfect market would equal the expected loss plus transaction costs (Galegatti et al.,
2008). However, perfect markets do not exist and
whether owing to an inadequate or inaccurate assessment of risks or to government intervention in
the market, insurance premiums do not necessarily
reflect a realistic pricing of risk (Nguyen, 2012).
Classic problems surrounding insurance include
moral hazard and adverse selectioni , both related
with information asymmetry in the market (Galegatti et al., 2008). If insurance pricing reflects real risk,

insurance can facilitate risk reduction investments,
for example, as in the case of the California Earthquake insurance (see Box 13.1 below). When lower
premiums are set, for example, for earthquake-resistant properties, this provides an incentive to invest in retrofitting and earthquake-resistant design,
thus avoiding moral hazard and adverse selection.
Although risks in developed markets, such as Europe, Japan and the United States of America, are
modelled with precision by the commercial risk
modelling industry, this is often not the case in
new and emerging insurance markets. At the same
time, although sophisticated risk models enable
the insurance and reinsurance industry to calculate premiums, data from these actuarial models
are rarely available to those who purchase insurance policies, generating information asymmetry.
The accuracy of loss estimates and the translation
of those into premiums cannot be easily verified by
the insurance buyers. Developments of public disaster databases and risk models have the potential to start to bridge this information asymmetry
(see Chapter 15 for examples).

Box 13.1 National and regional insurance mechanisms in the United States of America

The US National Flood Insurance Programme (NFIP) provides subsidised flood protection insurance to properties located in designated special flood hazard areas. In addition, the government was not allowed to purchase
reinsurance. As a result, it had accumulated debts of US$17.8 billion by 2007. Legislation requires the NFIP to offer subsidised premiums even to homes that suffer repetitive losses, thus decreasing or negating risk reduction
investment for those properties and resulting in an estimated 25–30 percent of claims paid for repetitive losses.
In addition, policy-holders often stop paying their insurance and instead rely on the government’s relief support as soon as mortgage lenders, who are supposed to control this, have transferred their account to capital
markets and thus lose oversight. In such cases, debt-based private ownership—in this case, housing at risk of
flood damage—once again increases public liabilities. The government recognised this problem and in June
2012, passed legislation that will phase out NFIP subsidies on properties with repetitive losses, introduce minimum deductibles as well as allow for a rezoning of areas to correspond more closely to new risk assessments,
all which are expected to avoid moral hazard and have positive impacts on risk reduction investment.
In contrast, the California Earthquake Authority has proven a successful public-private partnership (PPP),
where risk-based pricing and cost-effective structures have ensured a solvent programme that offers affordable premiums. Actuarially sound methods were used while benefitting from government reinsurance and support. Recently, the adoption of a building code for retrofitting existing structures is trying to link with lower insurance premium offers to lower the cost of insurance in general.
In doing so, a double incentive for insurance purchase and risk mitigation strategies would be created that
would ultimately benefit the insurance market, the insured and government budgets.
(Source: Orie in Orie and Stahel, 2012)

201

Governments are critical determinants of the role
that insurance markets can play in managing disaster risk. Their interpretation of the social contract of
the society they govern shapes the landscape of risk
financing and risk management. To develop the insurance market, many governments play the role of
regulator, framing how the market works, acts as reinsurer and, in some cases, directly sells insurance
to citizens and companies. The latter has the potential to distort premiums, for example, when insurance is subsidised to increase penetration rates. Underpriced premiums that do not reflect risk levels do
not provide incentives to invest in disaster risk reduction. When, in addition, governments act as insurers of last resort, this may encourage moral hazard and perverse incentives in favour of investment
in hazard-exposed areas (Nguyen, 2012). In addition,
it exposes governments and ultimately taxpayers to
losses, as in the case of the US National Flood Insurance Programme (NFIP), outlined in Box 13.1.
But there are also other successful insurance products where the premium does not directly reflect
expected loss. For example, in the case of parametric insurance, the payout from insurance companies is related to the scale of a predetermined
event, such as the severity of a storm and not to the

scale of the loss. Insurers can instantly calculate total payout amount after the trigger event and do
not have to evaluate individual loss claims. Parametric insurance gives the insured incentives to invest in risk reduction, given that if losses are reduced they still receive the same payout. It also lets
the insured decide how much risk they want to
transfer.
If comprehensive risk, exposure and vulnerability
models do not exist, as is often the case in many
low and middle-income countries, parametric insurance may be easier to implement than conventional insurance. However, it still requires investment in the infrastructure to monitor hazard levels
in a way that can produce credible and transparent
estimates of the severity of each event. This investment is a prerequisite for the expansion of insurance penetration in low-income economies.
Regional approaches to disaster insurance can offer
a solution by pooling not only risks but also resources across a greater area and number of actors. For
example, in south-eastern Europe, the South Eastern Europe and Caucasus Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility (SEEC CRIF) provides homeowners,
farmers, enterprises and governments with access

Box 13.2 Catastrophe insurance in China

China’s insurance penetration is still comparatively low, particularly outside the agricultural sector. This is despite almost two decades of rapid economic growth, usually associated with significant growth in the insurance
market (Ranger and Williamson, 2011). Earthquake insurance penetration is only 3 percent across China (Wang
et al., 2009) and with typhoons and floods rises to only 5 percent (Swiss Re., 2008). Consequently, insured losses
are usually low even following major disasters. After the Huaije and Yangtze River flooding in 2007, insurance
claims only amounted to 6 percent of total estimated loss. And during the Wenchuan Earthquake in 2008, payouts made by the insurance industry only equalled about 1 percent of total losses (Lloyds, 2012).
Insurance regulation can trigger growth in insurance markets, but there are also other types of public policies
and regulatory mechanisms that can result in increasing demand and facilitate the effective capital markets
required for insurance to operate (Ranger and Surminski, 2011). In China, although public policy is seen as a
means to promote insurance in the agricultural sector, no similar approach exists to support development of
insurance for the property sector. However, this may change in the coming years owing to continued and growing urbanisation—today, more than 44 percent of the country’s population lies in urban areas (Kamal-Chaoui et
al., 2009). In 2010, industrial and service sectors accounted for 89 percent of total GDPiii , which means that public policies on insurance and reinsurance as part of overall risk governance arrangements can be expected to
change.

(Source: Surminski in Orie and Stahel, 2012)

202

Part III - Chapter 13

Box 13.3 The Christchurch insurance crisis and lessons for the future

The two major earthquakes that hit New Zealand in September 2010 and in February 2011 generated insurance
losses of an estimated US$17 billion. These losses were a combination of payouts through the country’s public
residential insurance, the Earthquake Commission (EQC), losses to the commercial sector and losses to residential properties in excess of the EQC, covered by private insurers. The EQC alone faced more than 310,000
claims, with each of the two events drawing the highest number of claims by far in the EQC’s 65-year history.
The second largest insurer in the country—AMI, with 85,000 policyholders in Christchurch alone—had to be
bailed out by the government with an estimated US$800 million. Insurance claims could not be paid in a timely
manner, creating a bottleneck for residents’ relocation to safer areas. Therefore, a programme was initiated by
the government, in partnership with the insurance sector, in which 80 percent of residents in high-risk areas
were allowed to not only sell their land but also to hand over the insurance claim.
Following the two earthquakes, zoning policies and building regulations were revised, including a decision to
abandon selected suburbs and depopulate the severely affected and densely built-up central business district
of Christchurch. Moreover, the insurance industry announced several important changes, including incapacity
to pay out (AMI) and the termination of insurance policies (Ansvar Insurance). As a result, the EQC premiums
trebled from early 2012 onwards to reduce the insurance policy’s cash shortfall and begin to rebuild its reserves. A major concern, however, is that new earthquakes may hit New Zealand in the coming years, repeating
the country’s experience between 1929 and 1942, when a series of seven major earthquakes struck.
(Source: Muir-Wood, 2012; IRP, 2012; Canterbury Earthquake Recovery Authority (http://cera.govt.nz/))

to affordable catastrophe and weather risk insurance (World Bank and UNISDR, 2010). This regional
risk pooling mechanisms is the result of a successful cooperation between a private reinsurer, national governments and international organisations, which continue to support countries to
enact appropriate regulatory and policy reforms to
enable increasing insurance coverageii.
Historically, one of the main drivers of growth in
the non-life insurance market has been increasing
income per capita (Feyen et al., 2011; Enz, 2000;
Zheng et al., 2008). But it is not the only determinant of how insurance penetration develops within
a country. Public policy and regulated insurance
markets have proven to be another strong driver
towards increasing insurance coverage in countries with limited penetration (Hussels et al., 2005)
and may become the main factor of new regulatory responses to climate change (Ranger and Surminski, 2011).
History shows that insurance contributes to disaster
risk reduction only in countries with a mature risk
management culture (Muir-Wood in Orie and Stahel,
2012). The Netherlands provides a good example.

Investments made in hazard mitigation since the
early 17th century now mean that flood mortality
is 500 times lower than during the Middle Ages
(Van Baars and Van Kempen, 2009).
Until recently, Dutch citizens could not legally purchase flood insurance, which forced the government to ensure flood risk protection levels (Orie
and Stahel, 2012). Although this legal barrier has
been removed, flood insurance is still not widely
available. Discussions to develop a public-private
partnership (PPP) for insurance coverage were
halted in 2010 as a result of the economic crisis and
tightening fiscal space (Ibid.).
In rapidly growing economies, particularly in Asia,
insurance penetration is spreading faster than disaster risks are being reduced (Muir-Wood in Orie
and Stahel, 2012). This practice increases exposure
of the insurance industry to high and growing losses, even if existing risks are accurately modelled,
which may not always be the case. In these countries, low insurance pricing, aimed at increasing
market penetration or attracting investment, may
not encourage risk-averse investment.

203

On the contrary it may stimulate increased business
investment and hence accelerate the accumulation
of disaster risk. It also generates fiscal risks when
premiums are not risk-based and public sector institutions with limited experience of the insurance
market are involved (Orie and Stahel, 2012.). In China, as Box 13.2 shows, insurance penetration in the
property sector is still very low.
Recent catastrophes such as the Christchurch, New
Zealand, earthquakes and Thailand flooding also
have forced the insurance market to reconsider how
to price intensive risks and to review their engagement in the market based on principles of insurabilityiv. Major disasters can lead to insurance pricing
being revised and availability constrained. In Christchurch, a number of devastating earthquakes in
2010 and 2011 led to a thorough review of the coun-

try’s insurance policies and land-zoning regulations
(Box 13.3; Muir-Wood, 2012).
In another example, insured losses from the Thailand floods were estimated between US$15.2 billion
(Aon Benfield, 2012a) and US$18 billion (Orie and
Stahel, 2012). Subsequently, insurers and reinsurers
have revised their risk ratings, and significant increases in the price of insurance and reduction of coverage
are expected (Aon Benfield 2012a; Box 13.4). This
could result in a potentially negative effect on foreign
direct investment for Thailand but may discourage
business investment in flood prone areas.
PPPs have the potential to greatly improve coverage
and functioning of insurance markets. For example,
in Norway, mortgage lenders are legally obliged to
require that property owners purchase fire insur-

Box 13.4 The role of insurance in private investment promotion and business continuity

About 65–70 percent of insurance losses suffered in Thailand were borne by Japanese insurance companies
through local subsidiaries, joint ventures or direct presence in the country (Courbage et al., 2012). Many of these
had already paid out large amounts owing to the Great East Japan Earthquake and tsunami (Aon Benfield,
2012b). In spite of significant reinsurance, the three largest property insurance companies announced that
their net loss owing to the flood was expected to be as high as US$5.1 billion as of mid-February 2012.
As a consequence, private insurers and reinsurers began to restrain flood coverage and charge higher premiums owing to the high risk of the country. This created challenges for Japanese companies with facilities in
Thailand. As a result, the Japan External Trade Organization (JETRO) and Japanese business association requested the Thai Government to establish a public reinsurance fund to restore business confidence by providing flood insurance and reinsurancev. The Thai Government set up the National Catastrophe Insurance Fund in
March 2012. However, if insurance pricing does not reflect risk levels, this may encourage rather than discourage increased disaster risk in the country. With the new Fund, these risks are now in effect owned by the Government of Thailand.

(Source: JETRO vi)

Box 13.5 Mexico’s MultiCat catastrophe bond

MultiCat Mexico 2009—catastrophic bonds to transfer earthquake and hurricane risks in Mexico to capital markets—was a product of a formal PPP. Swiss Re, one of the world’s largest reinsurance companies, acted as colead manager and joint book-runner, drawing on its experience in providing insurance in emerging markets.
The Mexican Government constructed the Fund for Natural Disasters (FONDEN) and an accompanying loss estimation model (R-FONDEN) to financially and technically underpin the MultiCat transaction. The partnership
can be also indirect. According to Swiss Re, the public sector and the insurance industry are ‘implicit partners’
(Swiss Re, 2011b).
(Source: UNISDR)

204

Part III - Chapter 13

ance, which is again legally mandated to accompany natural peril coverage (Orie and Stahel, 2012).
Private insurance companies that wish to sell these
policies are legally required to join an insurance
pool called the Norwegian Natural Perils Pool
(NNPP). The premium rate is the same for all insurance buyers, as stipulated by the Pool Board that
represents all participating companies. The government manages the NNPP, provides reinsurance, and
regulates the payout (Orie and Stahel, 2012). To
avoid moral hazard potentially associated with a
universal premium rate, insurance companies are
allowed to reduce or waive indemnity if the insured
cannot show that appropriate measures were taken
to reduce the risk of loss (Ibid.).
PPPs, as in the Norwegian case, can ensure high solvency, high penetration rates, and high amounts of
accumulated capital reserves. They can also encourage risk-sensitive investment behaviour for
businesses. However, care should be taken to maintain appropriate levels of competition among insurance companies, with the public sector focusing on
facilitating and regulating the development of insurance markets based on sound risk assessments and

providing an enabling environment for investments
in risk reduction. Moreover, it is in the interest of national governments to use strong partnerships with
the insurance sector to bolster its own financial liquidity and ensure fiscal stability during major disasters (see Box 13.5 and Chapter 5 of this report).

13.2

Risk for sale: 			
insurance-linked securities

Financial markets are now increasing the supply of capital to the insurance industry through
insurance-linked securities and similar financial
products. This increases competition and the
choice of insurance products available to manage
disaster risks. However, these advantages may be
undermined if asset managers and catastrophe
bond issuers favour short-term gains in bond
prices over the more sustainable long-term returns derived from potentially more realistic
risk analysis.
The capital market around insurance and reinsurance has grown rapidly over recent years (Figure

Figure 13.1 Growth in the catastrophe bonds and insurance-linked securities market, 1996-2012

(Source: UNISDR, based on Artemis Catastrophe Bond & Insurance-Linked Securities Deal Directoryix )

205

13.1) —now one of the few markets with a net inflow
of fundsvii. In the first quarter of 2012, for example,
the issuance of catastrophe bondsviii reached a record level, driven by an ‘excess supply of capital’ for
which investment opportunities have to be found
(Aon Benfield, 2012d). The growing interest in these
and other insurance-linked securities is expected to
increase further (WCMA, 2012).

The use of capital markets is not limited to insurers
seeking alternatives for reinsurance. To smooth
catastrophic risk, some countries issue catastrophe bonds instead of purchasing insurance, as
shown in the Mexico example. In addition, companies such as Tokyo Disney, Universal Studio and
Electricité de France have sponsored catastrophelinked securities (OECD, 2011).

This market growth is neither driven by disaster risk
reduction objectives nor directly requires that insured or reinsured parties reduce or manage their
risks. The demand-side incentive comes from pension funds and institutional asset managers who
seek to diversify their investment portfolios with alternative products that have uncorrelated risks and
yieldsx. The incentive for the insurance industry includes the spreading of disaster risk over a wider
capital base through a diversity of securities and
other financial products. This extra capacity is especially attractive considering increased need to cover
intensive risk. The multi-year fixed price capacity
also makes investment planning of insurance companies more sound and easy compared with the
usual annual term coverage of reinsurance (WEF,
2008).

Despite significant insurance losses in recent years,
the insurance-linked securities market remains
strong as most contracts to date cover wind events in
the United States of America rather than Asian earthquakes, floods and tsunamis (Aon Benfield, 2012a;
WCMA, 2012). However, this may change with an increasing flow of capital into securities covering other
regions and new hazards, and for which reliable catastrophe models are only now being developed.
Catastrophe bonds have been diversified in line with
increasing investment trends (WEF, 2008). Their indices and premiums are based on detailed industry
catastrophe models and risk assessments, which
are regularly revised and updated, sometimes, as
Box 13.6 shows, in real time. However, this risk information is very difficult for potential investors to

Box 13.6 Pricing risk in real time – lessons from Hurricanes Irene and Gustav

Insurance-linked securities are traded not just before or after disasters happen, but also during events. In such
cases, the pricing of risk, via the pricing of securities, takes on a dynamic that is directly based on the evolution
of the hazard event. For example, when Hurricane Irene was categorised as a Category 3 storm in August 2011,
the prices of several catastrophe bonds fell by 30–50 percent. Once Irene was downgraded to a Category 1
storm and then subsided, prices quickly rebounded.
Thus, while risk modelling underpins the pricing of insurance-linked securities, trading is reactive to real events
and on a real-time basis. So-called Live CAT Bonds have now been developed where trading takes place while
the event, usually a hurricane, develops. Such Live CAT Bonds are commonly industry loss warranties, i.e. insurance products where payout is triggered by a predefined loss limit across an entire industry rather than an individual company’s loss.
During Hurricane Gustav in 2008, US$9 million Live CAT Bonds were made available based on a new real-time
hurricane index, through contracts between reinsurers and investment banks, hedge funds, etc.
The real-time aspect of the hurricane index and because it is fungible enabled the issuer to settle trades within
three business days of hurricane landfall. Although this meant a cash-flow benefit to clients on both sides of
the process, the simplicity of the index trigger may imply that risk levels may have been underestimated or not
correctly priced, encouraging risk-increasing investment behaviour.

(Source: UNISDR, based on Aon Benfield, 2012d and xii)

206

Part III - Chapter 13

comprehend and is rarely disclosed to them xi owing
to over the counter transactions of products (see
Chapter 12). There are, however, signs of change,
with information being provided to investors at a
higher level of disaggregation (Aon Benfield, 2012d).
In February 2011, leading catastrophe modeller Risk
Management Solutions (RMS) released a new version of its US hurricane risk model that significantly
revised upwards the probability of hurricane risk. As
a result, several US hurricane catastrophe bonds
priced using the RMS model were downgraded as
concerns of their profitability in light of the new
model’s results grew. Bond issuers began pricing
new bonds on the risk models of competitor AIR
Worldwide (AIR), which estimated lower probabilities (Aon Benfield, 2012d).

earthquakes but to uncertainties in the catastrophe
models (Ibid.).
Leading risk modellers, including AIR, are now committing to provide longer-term risk analysis in addition to medium-term perspectives on potential
losses by improving the use of historical data and
future projections in their risk models. Several industry leaders have highlighted the need to make
explicit the uncertainties associated with commercial risk models available in the market (Aon Benfield, 2012d) to facilitate a more accurate pricing of
risk.

This highlights the tendency of asset managers and
bond issuers to favour short-term gains in catastrophe bond prices over the more sustainable longterm returns derived from potentially more realistic
risk analysis. RMS has since been forced to market
its revised model in a more comprehensive ‘Resilient Risk Management’ strategy that raises awareness about exposure not only to hurricanes and

The development of capital markets for insurancelinked securities is desirable considering that increased competition within and between the market and reinsurance companies would bring better
product quality and affordability for insurance coverage. However, to increase investors and expand
market size in a way that does not increase disaster
risk, asymmetric information problems must be
overcome by collecting and disseminating risk and
loss information. Institutional infrastructure, such
as accounting or solvency rules, also needs to be
developed.

Note

v	 http://www.jetro.go.jp/world/asia/th/biznews/4f7d27132e248
vi	 http://www.jetro.go.jp/world/asia/th/biznews/4f7d27132e248

i	 Moral hazard is a case where insurance buyers become less risk
adverse owing to the coverage purchased. Adverse selection arises
when risk–seekers are more likely to buy insurance than risk-averse
individuals, potentially hiding real levels of risk.
ii	 The regional approach was initiated with support from the
Global Environment Facility, the Swiss government, UNISDR and the
World Bank.

vii	 Luca Albertinie, CEO, Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP in Aon
Benfield 2012a: p.42; and http://www.artemis.bm/deal_directory
viii	 Catastrophe bonds are high yield bonds that contain a provision
which may cause the principal or interest payments to be delayed or
lost to investors in the event of a specified loss such as a hurricane
or earthquake (OECD, 2011).
ix	 http://www.artemis.bm/deal_directory

iii	 http://www.economywatch.com/world_economy/china/structure-of-economy.html

x	 Niklaus Hilti, Head of Insurance Linked Securities, Credit Suisse
Asset Management in Aon Benfield 2012a:p45.

iv	 When assessing risks, any insurer or reinsurer must take into
account the fundamental principles and limitations of insurability.
Insurability is not a strict formula, but rather a set of basic criteria
that must be fulfilled in order for a risk to be insurable. Disregarding
these constraints ultimately jeopardises the (re)insurer’s solvency
and its ability to honour its policy obligations. However, the strict
criteria required for insurability can mean that certain exposures
may remain uninsurable. Some basic principles considered include
randomness of the event, quantifiable events and losses, mutuality
of risk, and economic viability. For more information see: 	
http://media.swissre.com/documents/The_Essential_Guide_to_
Reinsurance_EN.pdf

xi	 http://www.riskandinsurance.com/story.jsp?storyId=124326385
xii	 http://www.riskandinsurance.com/story.jsp?storyId=124326385

207

Chapter 14

Risk Governance: 		
In Search of the Missing
Paradigm

209

Even in today’s globalised economy, national governments and local administrations remain one of
the most important mediators and regulators of private investment and thus disaster risk management. Governments report significant progress in achieving effective disaster response and preparedness and are investing more in risk reduction. Yet, the required shift towards prospective risk
management remains a challenge for most.
The future of disaster risk reductionxii will depend on governments and political leaders becoming
more successful at combining the promotion of local and national economic growth with effective
disaster risk management on the ground. Thus, they will have to expand their approach to risk governance to include the creation of incentives for risk sensitive investment.

14.1
		

Evolving risk governance:
evidence from the 2011– 	
2013 HFA Monitor

	

Results from national self-assessments of progress
against the Hyogo Framework for Action (HFA)
confirm countries’ previously reported challenges,
particularly in addressing the underlying drivers
of risk.
Risk governance, understood as a systemic approach to decision-making related to physical and
technological hazards, has become an important
concept for businesses and governments to effectively manage disaster risks (Fra Paleo, 2009; Renn,
2008; IRGC, 2005; IRGP-IHDP, 2010). Since the previous Global Assessment Report (UNISDR, 2011),
which focused on public risk governance and associated government strategies, it has become apparent that risk governance structures and policies
need to be expanded to include real consideration
of the business sector, as well as civil society.
This is particularly pertinent, owing to evidence of
rising economic loss risk from business investments
in hazard-exposed regions. As highlighted in previous chapters, economic analyses and forecasts
used by investors rarely mention disaster risk. Moreover, policy-makers in national government institutions and international organisations, although beginning to recognise changes in the nature of risks
and risk management requirements, are still limited
in their capacity to comprehensively assess and ad210

Part III - Chapter 14

dress identified risks and future uncertainty (World
Bank, 2012a; Kent, 2013).
In overall terms, HFA Progress Reports 2011–2013
(see Box 14.1) highlight broadly similar successes
and challenges as reported in the 2007–2009 and
2009–2011 cycles.i
Risk governance arrangements established by
countries and cities to manage their disaster risks
have evolved significantly since 2005v.
From the 1980s onward, a growing number of
countries reformed their legislation, policy and institutional frameworks for disaster risk management. Civil defence and protection organisations,
focused on response, gradually gave way to a second generation of national systems for disaster risk
management with common characteristics (UNDP,
2012a and 2012b; World Bank, 2012a; ADPC, 2003).
Multi-sector committees now provide coordination
and articulation across different ministries and departments; responsibilities are decentralised to local governments and dedicated budget lines for
risk reduction activities are established.
As of December 2012, 85 countries had established
multi-sectoral national platforms for disaster risk
management; 191 countries had a dedicated focal
point for disaster risk reduction in a central government department; and 121 countries enacted legislation to establish policy and legal frameworks for
disaster risk reductionvi. But with notable excep-

Box 14.1 Regional, national and local self-assessments of progress against the Hyogo Framework for Action

Since 2007, national governments have been assessing their progress against the five priorities of the Hyogo
Framework for Action (HFA) in a systematic manner, through the HFA Review process and HFA Monitor. In 2009,
a regional self-assessment process was established for interested inter-governmental organisations and in
2011, local governments began to use a similar process and tool to review progress at the provincial, district
and municipal levels.
The HFA Review process is entirely voluntary. The self-assessment process is led and owned by intergovernmental organizations, and governments and local government institutions at regional, national and
local levels, respectively. It is designed to promote a multi-stakeholder appraisal progress in implementing the
HFA. It is intended to stimulate an inter-disciplinary planning process that ensures that disaster risk is
appropriately considered in public and private investment portfolios, not least to reduce mortality, minimise
fiscal exposure and losses, and contribute to sustainable development.
The corresponding HFA Monitor is a multi-tier online tool, facilitated by UNISDR and led by country
governments.ii The tool provides a mechanism to capture responses against progress indicators of the HFA,
ensuring some degree of comparability of data over time series and between countries. Achievements in each
core indicator are rated by governments themselves on a scale of 1 to 5, with 1 representing ‘minor’ achievement
and 5 indicating ‘comprehensive’ achievement. Figure 14.1 gives an overview of progress reported against each
priority area from 2007–2013.
Figure 14.1 Progress against the five HFA priority areas, 2007–2013 (comprising three reporting cycles)

(Source: UNISDR, based on HFA Monitor data)

More than 100 countries and territories used the HFA Monitor in 2007–2009 and 109 submitted final reports in
the 2009–2011 review. It should be underlined that strict comparisons across time periods are difficult, as not
all countries participate in every reporting cycle. Only 45 percent of countries participating in the 2011–2013
reporting cycle have participated in all three progress reviews to date. At the time of writing, 94 national
authorities have submitted reports covering June 2011 to January 2013, with a further 37 undergoing further
assessments due to be published in mid-2013iii . Encouragingly, since the last reporting cycle the geographical
balance of engaged countries has improved.

211

Figure 14.2 Breakdown of percentage of countries reporting by regioniv

(Source: UNISDR, based on HFA Monitor data)

Unless cited otherwise, all country-specific information in this chapter is based on the quantitative and
qualitative analysis of the final or interim national HFA progress reports that countries have voluntarily
submitted in the 2011–2013 cycle (as of March 2013). A more in-depth analysis is available in Annex 3 of the
online version of this report and all national reports are available on Preventionweb.

(Source: UNISDR)

tions, these institutional and legislative systems
have remained focused on disaster preparedness
and response, including through improved planning, training and capacity building. This has contributed to declining mortality risk in many countries, at least in weather-related disasters (UNISDR,
2007; UNISDR, 2009; UNISDR, 2011).
Several countries have progressed in passing legislation and policy that attempts to integrate disaster
risk considerations into sector strategies and wider
planning. For example, a policy framework for reducing disaster risk has been incorporated in the
National Development Plan 2011–2013 of the State
of Palestine and integrated in the sectoral plans and
strategies of the agriculture, health and security
sectors. Some countries also highlight the success
212

Part III - Chapter 14

of integrating disaster risk reduction into broader
frameworks; examples include Burkina Faso in its
Strategy for Accelerated Growth and Development; Ethiopia and its Growth and Transformation
Plan; Rwanda in its Vision 2020; and Bangladesh in
its Perspective Plan 2012–2021, which ties together
all investment plans for the Government of Bangladesh.
Countries have been less successful, however, in
making substantial inroads to achieving risk-sensitive investment. Papua New Guinea cites the existing Disaster Management Act and Disaster Management Plans as providing legislative and regulatory
provisions for disaster management in the country,
but recognises that these need updating to reflect
a shift in government policy from emergency re-

sponse to integrating disaster risk. Lesotho notes
that the sectoral legal framework needs further
strengthening and greater emphasis required to
promote implementation of decentralized disaster
risk reduction (DRR) activities.
Captured under HFA priority area 4, countries continue to make less progress across all three HFA reporting cycles since 2007 and the figures are sobering: of the countries that reported, only half
confirm having in place simple regulatory mechanisms for providing safe land and housing for lowincome communities, for risk-sensitive land zoning
and private real estate development, or for land titling (Figure 14.3). From that perspective national
policies, institutional frameworks and legislation
on disaster risk management have been largely peripheral in addressing the underlying risk drivers,
through which disaster risks accumulate.
In many countries, legislation that mandates risksensitive investment and development is in place
and budget allocations for disaster risk manage-

Figure 14.3 Number of countries reporting on regulatory
mechanisms for risk-sensitive land use

(Source: UNISDR, based on HFA Monitor data 2011–2013)

ment have increased. However, the HFA Progress Reports of 2011–2013 highlight the continued challenge of implementing these policies,
strategies and laws. As highlighted by previous

Box 14.2 Implementation gaps

China reports that, although it has a relatively coherent disaster prevention and reduction law and regulation
system, it struggles with implementing risk reduction efficiently and even of integrating its response
mechanisms.
India, owing to its federal state system, struggles with lack of synergy and complementarity of national and
state policies and institutional structures. Relatively new state and district disaster management agencies may
have limited capacity and lack authority vis-à-vis better-established national institutions.
Germany faces similar challenges with strong federal states (or Länder) whose disaster management strategies
are rarely coordinated with each other or with the national system.
Niue reports that, although limited capacities in each sector can result in implementation problems, the key
issue is lack of ownership for cross-sector coordination and local implementation.
Uruguay strengthened the risk management capabilities of municipalities, while recognising that decentralized
management requires commitment and installed capacities at local and departmental levels.
Myanmar established an action plan on disaster risk reduction for 2009–2015, but will have difficulties enforcing
it without policy guidance or directives for townships and villages, where gaps already exist.
Pakistan cites a dependency syndrome of local institutions and communities on provincial and federal
governments in managing local disasters.
Enforcement on the ground and accountability at all levels tend to be weak, confirming once again findings
from the 2011 Global Assessment Report.
(Source: UNISDR)

213

HFA reporting cycles (UNISDR, 2009; UNISDR, 2011),
problems of articulation and coordination exist between disaster risk management agencies, sector
ministries and departments and local governments,
compounded by lack of political muscle and technical capacities. As Box 14.2 highlights, there has
been a major gap between development of policy
and institutional frameworks and implementation
on the ground (GNDR, 2011).

14.2

Attracting investment, 	
constructing risk

As governments need to attract domestic and
foreign direct investment (FDI), the effective
management of disaster risk can be compromised. This may be mainly a result of the current
disconnect between investment promotion and
risk management functions within their administrations.
Governments report difficulty in regulating investment and development in a way that reduces disaster risk; this should be examined more broadly.
Figure 14.4 Major sources of FDI into Thailand

(Source: Bank of Thailand, in: Thampanishvong, 2012)

214

Part III - Chapter 14

Economic globalisation has been accompanied by
radical changes in the role of the state in many
countries. To maintain competitiveness and reduce
financial risk, in some countries, welfare services
and national industries have been privatised and
state regulation has been reduced (Hobsbawm,
2011; Loko et al., 2003; Rondinelli and Cheema,
2003). Although this trend was briefly reverted at the
outset of the global crisis in 2007 and 2008, pressure
to deregulate and privatise services and infrastructure management in particular has now been renewed (Gerulis-Darcy, 2012; Heise and Lierse, 2011;
Lapvitsas et al., 2010).
Across many low and middle-income countries,
structural adjustment programmes, and more recently, poverty reduction strategy papers (PRSPs)
were used as vehicles to remove barriers to investment and growth; to reduce government spending;
and to ensure debt servicing (Dollar and Svensson,
2000; Easterly, 2003; Craig and Porter, 2003). Consequently, state-owned enterprises were privatised
and private investment and participation was encouraged in sectors such as health, education, pensions, banking, ports, airports and telecommunica-

tions, which were previously subject to state
monopolies (Kyrili and Martin, 2010; Babb, 2005;
Bouton and Sumlinski, 2000; Epstein et al., 2003).
This shift in fiscal and economic policy has also characterised many high-income countries, in Europe
and elsewhere (Gerulis-Darcy, 2012; Lapvitsas et al.,
2010; Elkins et al., 2006; Maarse, 2010; OECD, 2008).
In parallel, governments began to play an active and
explicit role as promoter and facilitator of private investment. Financial, property, labour and other
markets were deregulated and liberalised; tariffs on
trade were reduced or eliminated; and incentives

were provided for foreign investment. At the same
time, in some countries, national mechanisms and
institutions for development planning were either
weakened or wound down (UNCTAD, 2012; Cernea,
2005; Likosky, 2009).
As a result, the global economy is increasingly characterised by geographical competition between
countries and cities to attract investment on the basis of their real or perceived comparative advantages.
As described earlier in this report, SIDS compete to
attract tourism investment; other countries with sig-

Box 14.3 Attracting new risk in Thailand

Thailand’s powerful Board of Investment (BOI) encouraged investment in three promotional zonesvii —through
tax privileges; sectoral incentives through BOI-identified priority projects; and privileges provided by the
Industrial Authority of Thailand (IEAT). Although privileges offered in Zone 1, the areas surrounding Bangkok,
were lower than those offered in regions further inland, they were still substantial, including corporate tax
exemption for 3 years and a 50 percent reduction on import duty for machinery (BOI, Government of Thailand,
in: Thampishvong, 2012).
Although this policy was successful in attracting FDI, it led to massive increases in flood exposure. As Figure
14.5 shows, much of the investment took place in former rice paddies located in floodplains of the provinces
Ayutthaya and Pathumthani (Thampishvong, 2012), which paved the way for the 2011 Chao Phraya flood
disaster (Marome, 2012).
Figure 14.5 Thailand map of investment zones and flood risk

(Source: BOI, Government of Thailand (http://thailandboi.com/investment-zones.html) and Emerald Insight.viii)
(Source: UNISDR)

215

nificant reserves of natural capital offer broad concessions for investment in primary production, including mining, oil and gas, timber and more
recently agricultural production. Yet others provide
incentives for export-oriented special economic
zones (SEZs) or similar mechanisms to allow the assembly and export of products with imported components (World Bank, 1998). SEZs, which aim to
promote FDI, have expanded rapidly over 20 years—
from 176 zones in 47 countries in 1986 to 3,500 zones
in 130 countries in 2006 (Boyenge, 2007).
As inter-country and intra-country competition for
increasingly footloose investment has increased,
many governments now have a competitiveness
agenda in which they seek to strengthen their comparative advantages in one or more sectors. The
World Economic Forum classifies several basic requirements for competitiveness, which includes institutional environment, sound infrastructure, macroeconomic stability and health and primary
education; efficiency enhancers, which include
higher education and training, goods and labour
market efficiency, a developed financial market,
technological readiness, market size and innova-

tion; and sophistication factors, which includes
business sophistication and innovation (WEF, 2012).
High levels of disaster risk are a negative competitiveness value because they undermine these requirements and pose risks to investors. However, instead of highlighting success in managing and
reducing these risks, many governments have preferred to downplay or simply ignore them, contributing to the investor risk blindness already highlighted
in the previous chapter. Instead, governments,
through promoting the advantages of low labour
costs, access to export markets and low taxes, may
instead encourage investments in high-risk areas.
Together with the ineffectiveness of public regulation of development, particularly from a risk reduction perspective, highlighted in the previous section,
this implies that the current practice of risk governance does not provide adequate disincentives to
business investment that produces disaster risks.
In Thailand, for example, since 1977, the government
began to grant tax exemptions and import duty reductions to companies investing in industrial activity

Box 14.4 Guangzhou: producing risk over centuries of economic activity

As early as 200 AD, Indians and Romans came to the city also known as Canton, to trade, making Guangzhou
China’s oldest trading port. In the 18th and 19th centuries, China was already an important global
manufacturing hub (Roy and Ong, 2011). Today, Guangzhou and its surrounding industrial areas are a major
manufacturing and export hub and a global supplier of goods.
However, it also ranks just behind Miami and much ahead of Shanghai, Mumbai, Tokyo, Hong Kong and Bangkok
in a recent global index of port cities’ exposure of population to flooding (Nicholls et al., 2008). Moreover, it
comes second in terms of assets exposed to flood risks projected for 2070 (Ibid.). In May 2010, extreme rains
killed at least 86 people in Guangzhou and disrupted the lives of 8 million. The most damaging storm in 30
years, which cost Guangzhou US$85 million, challenged the city’s flood-control drainage systems and damaged
256,800 acres of farmland (Bloomberg, 2012).
Yet, despite these apparent risks, investors and their advisors do not rank them on par with other investment
considerations such as corporate tax breaks, labour laws and costs and other direct business costs. Recent risk
analyses of Guangzhou and Guangdong provinces do not refer to disaster risk other than the possibility that
companies could be held responsible by government or communities for environmental impacts or disasters.
Instead, there are broad incentives for increased investment in flood-prone areas. The government offers 100
percent corporate tax relief for the first three years of an investment earning returns. As a result, in 2005, assets
worth US$84 billion and almost 3 million people were at risk; and these figures are estimated to increase to
US$3.4 trillion of assets and more than 10 million inhabitants by 2070 (Bloomberg, 2012).
(Source: UNISDR)

216

Part III - Chapter 14

Box 14.5 Investment-risk interactions in coastal India

Only six years after the occurrence of a category 5 cyclone in 1999, the Government of Orissa designated the
coastal district of Jagatsinghpur to be the site for the largest FDI project in the history of India: a deal was signed
with a South Korean company for the development of a major steel plant, mines, railway links and a captive
port to exploit the state’s rich iron ore and coal deposits. The Memorandum of Understanding provided
investors with a 100 percent tax exemption for five years—part of a recent initiative to further boost FDI inflows.
Without a clear risk-sharing framework in place, the Government of Orissa was potentially taking on unlimited
liabilities for future disaster losses. In addition to the social and environmental costs associated with the
relocation of existing communities, the clearing of forests and farmlands and the loss of livelihoods for landless
and fishing communities, the project would increase hazard exposure and probably act as a magnet for further
risk-increasing development in the area.
The controversial project has ignited protests from communities, the National Human Rights Commission and
environmental agencies, forcing several reviews to be undertaken, most recently, in August 2012 by the Ministry
of Environment and Forests. The review resulted in environmental clearance for the project to be temporarily
suspended; but the project remains a priority for both state and federal governments.

(Source: Patra, 2012)

in the country. As Figure 14.4 shows, this led to a significant increase of FDI flows starting in the mid1980s (Brimble, 2002), particularly from Japan.
But as Box 14.3 shows, success in attracting this investment led to a rapid increase in exposure of economic assets in flood-prone regions of the country
(Thampanishvong, 2012).
In Guangzhou, China, public incentives to attract investment have also contributed to increasing hazard exposure and disaster risks (Box 14.4).

ment flows, then many governments have prioritised growth over risk reduction. In other countries
where vigorous economic growth has meant that
expected annual losses from disaster (AAL) represent only a small proportion of annual capital formation (GFCF), governments may calculate that
they have the capacity to absorb the risks. In this
case, the implementation of policies to reduce disaster risks may be postponed until growth has lead
to a high level of economic development.

On the western coast of India, in Jagatsinghpur District, more than 8,000 lives were lost and 230,000
homes destroyed during the 1999 Orissa Super Cyclone (Patra, 2012). Today, as Box 14.5 highlights,
the district is being considered for the largest FDI
project in the history of India.

At the same time, there is little evidence from any of
the HFA progress reports since 2007 of the engagement of investment boards, trade ministries and private investors in national disaster risk governance
frameworks. As a result, coordination between economic promotion and growth policies, on the one
hand, and disaster risk management strategies, on
the other hand, is absent.

In some countries, therefore, the role of governments has been contradictory to the stated objective of the HFA to achieve substantial reduction in
disaster risk. This paradox reflects a broader tradeoff between rapid economic growth and risk reduction, which ultimately reflects national political priorities. If perceived additional costs of disaster risk
reduction have been considered a barrier to invest-

This lack of coordination may be exacerbated by a
limited capacity for assessing the costs and benefits
of disaster risk reduction. For example, while 56
countries reporting through the HFA Monitor in 2013
note that costs and benefits of disaster risk and risk
reduction are taken into account in the planning
and operation of major development projects, only
one third confirm that national science agendas and
217

budgets include studies on the economic costs and
benefits of DRR. Just under 80 percent of countries
report that they assess what impact new development investments may have on disaster risk; however, how these assessments are translated into
policy and practice is rarely made explicit.

14.3

Increased investment 		
in disaster risk management

Countries do not know how much they currently
invest in disaster risk management. Complexities
in budgeting and accounting across sectors add
to the challenge of tracking current investments,
but several governments have begun to tackle
this problem as well as significantly increasing investments, particularly in corrective disaster risk
management.
If countries are to realistically assess the trade-offs
between disaster risk reduction and policies that
promote rapid economic growth, one particular
challenge is that few countries are able to quantify
their investments in disaster risk reduction and
hence estimate the resulting costs and benefits.
In the 2011–2013 HFA progress reviews, 90 percent
of countries report that they consider disaster risk in
relation to national and sector public investment.
However, just 52 percent report having systems in
place that allow them to do so. Further, only 36 percent reported dedicated funding to risk reduction
and prevention versus response and preparedness.
However, a number of countries in both Asia (India,
Indonesia, Philippines) and Latin America (Costa
Rica, Guatemala, Mexico, Panama and Peru) have
been involved in dedicated efforts to track and estimate their investments in disaster risk reduction.
Capturing overall annual expenditure in dedicated
disaster contingency or reserve funds is relatively
straightforward. However, in a fiscal environment
where disaster risk reduction investments, particu218

Part III - Chapter 14

larly in prospective risk management, are rarely
classified in national budgets, and officials with fiduciary responsibilities have little familiarity with
disaster risk management, the accurate portrayal of
budgetary allocation and realised expenditure is
particularly challenging. This is compounded when
analysis is extended to local public investment.
Although identification of expenditure managed by
a national disaster risk management agency may be
possible, identifying expenditure by other spending
units in a government, for example across sectors, is
complicated, as expenditure is seldom coded as disaster risk reduction (Box 14.6). For example, a project to strengthen water management may reduce
drought and flood hazard, but would probably not
be coded as disaster reduction expenditure. This
‘embedded’ expenditure on disaster risk reduction
may be particularly hard to identify. Even more challenging is identifying whether public investment in
general, to build schools, roads and health centres,
for example, has integrated disaster risk reduction
considerations.
To track embedded expenditure, close coordination
between the investment planning and the financial
arms of national or even local government is critical.
Investment plans that take disaster risk into account
may not actually be translated into budget plans
(Orihuela, 2012). Budgetary officials may have excellent knowledge about budgeting, but little knowledge about investment projects from planning and
sectoral agencies. This contributes to difficulty in
tracking embedded investment (Ibid.).
As Box 14.6 shows, countries have taken different
approaches to identifying this investment.
Investment tracking can allow better identification
of costs and benefits of disaster risk reduction, but
as the above examples highlight, requires significant
efforts and resources. From this perspective, another approach may be to embed disaster risk reduction into national asset management. The asset
management approach has been adopted in some

high-income countries to reduce expenditure on
public infrastructure while assuring and improving
service levels. The first step is to create inventories
of public assets, which can then be used for tracking
investments in disaster risk reduction. This can align
the interests of finance ministries with disaster risk
reduction objectives. Inventories can then be used
for risk assessment or to develop risk financing solutions. For example, the Mexican Government has an
inventory database of buildings, roads and other
public assets and data are used for estimating exposure to design risk transfer strategies (G20/OECD,
2012).
In countries where public infrastructure and services have been privatised, the adoption of an asset
management approach to disaster risk reduction
investment tracking is challenging. However, in the
United States of America, the national asset data-

base maintained by the Department of Homeland
Security (DHS), which contains information on more
than 77, 000 assets—including national critical infrastructures, including dams and nuclear power
plants (Moteff, 2007)—takes into account the 85 percent operated by the private sector.
Widely varying interpretations of terminology also
make inter-country comparison difficult (Gordon,
2013). This makes it complicated to clearly differentiate between expenditure on disaster response and
expenditure on different kinds of risk reduction.
Despite these difficulties and the consistent message by countries regarding the limited resources
available over the long term to make the required
investments, there is anecdotal evidence, both from
reviews of budget allocations as well as from the
HFA Monitor, which highlights that overall expendi-

Box 14.6 Tracking investment in disaster risk reduction

In India, although the allocation to Dedicated Schemes on Disaster Management remained stable from 2005–
2006 to 2011–2012 (from US$5.09 billion in 2005–2006 to US$4.96 billion in 2011–2012), embedded disaster risk
reduction investments has grown both in absolute terms and as a percentage of total budget (Dhar Chakrabarti,
2012). Figure 14.6 shows estimated budget allocations of 85 plan and non-plan schemes identified in 35
ministries and departments as having the potential for reducing risks of disasters.ix
Figure 14.6 Total budget allocation and allocations on embedded schemes in India

(Source: Dhar Chakrabarti, 2012)

219

In Guatemala, as Figure 14.7 below shows, the Guatemalan Ministry of Finance has developed a tool to code its
expenditure in four categories: risk identification and analysis; preparation and capacity building; disaster
response; and disaster recovery. None of these categories explicitly identify strategies of either corrective or
prospective risk management although related activities could be embedded within these, particularly in
identification and analysis, recovery and capacity building.
Figure 14.7 Guatemala disaster risk management
expenditure in 2010

(Source: Orihuela, 2012 (based on Expenditure Structure for Disaster Risk
Reduction Management – Year 2010. Technical Budget Directorate (DTP), Vice
Ministry of Financial Management, Ministry of Finance, Guatemala, 2012))

In Panama, the Directorate of Investment Planning (DPI) estimated government expenditures on disaster
prevention, mitigation, response and reconstruction over the last decade. Using similar categories as
Guatemala’s tracking system, total calculations amounted to about US$200 million for 2000 to 2010 (Orihuela,
2012). Results revealed that expenditure on prospective risk reduction was difficult to track and unreliable,
whereas dedicated expenditure on emergency response and reconstruction was easier to identify, particularly
when this required a specifically documented amendment to the national annual budget (Ibid.).
In Mexico, the government, with support from the World Bank, has initiated assessment and monitoring of
public investments in disaster risk reductionxi at the federal level.x The project will analyse investments; the use
of hazard and risk information in federal decision-making for disaster risk reduction; and the impacts of
investment through sectoral case studies. It will also develop a mechanism to follow up and better monitor
future investments in disaster risk reductionxi.

(Source: UNISDR)

ture on disaster risk reduction is growing.
Some countries are now skewing their budget allocations in favour of investments in corrective disaster risk management and strengthening financial resilience (see Annex 3), often through the
establishment of dedicated funds and budget
lines, during post-disaster recovery or when faced
with imminent events.

US$6.4 billion is allocated to disaster prevention
management and US$9.5 billion to national land
conservation. In Australia, the National Partnership
Agreement on Natural Disaster Resilience (NPA)
provides state governments with approximately
US$27 million per year to invest in disaster risk reduction projects prioritised in accordance with
state-wide risk assessments complementing private sector investments.

For example, the HFA Monitor 2011–2013 highlights
that in Sri Lanka, 60 percent of the Ministry of Disaster Management’s annual allocation is dedicated to
corrective disaster reduction projects. In 2012,
Sweden allocated US$60 million for disaster reduction in the transport sector. Japan’s 2012 disaster
management budget is US$46 billion, of which

The Government of Canada allocated almost
US$100 million in its 2012 Budget to share the cost
of permanent flood mitigation investments made
by provinces and territories affected by spring
floods in 2011. In addition, the Building Canada programme, administered by Infrastructure Canada,
seeks to create a more competitive and prosperous

220

Part III - Chapter 14

Table 14.1 Disaster management budget as a percentage of Indonesia’s total budget, 2006–2012 (in percent)

(Source: Darwanto, 2012)

economy by investing in projects to reduce the vulnerability of communities or public infrastructure to
hazards and climate change.
China has also made major investments, for example, US$10.5 billion in flood prevention and
drought relief in 2011 by the central government;
US$400 million per year for geological disaster prevention and control, with 23 provinces, 176 cities
and 932 counties establishing special complementary funds amounting to an estimated US$2 billion
since 2011. Central government has also invested
just under US$600 million in agricultural disaster
prevention and reduction. Its Comprehensive Disaster Prevention and Reduction Plan (2011–2015)
aims to reduce direct economic losses from disasters to less than 1.5 percent of GDP.
Reviews of budget allocations also show that in the
Philippines, for example, disaster risk reduction investments are trending upward, for example, from
1.4 percent to 2.1 percent of the country’s national
budget between 2009 and 2011 (Jose, 2012).

Box 14.7 Investments in risk reduction: the case of Tabasco, Mexico

The National Disaster Fund (FONDEN) of Mexico
is currently investing between 25 percent and
30 percent of its resources to rebuilding better.
These investments in risk reduction can enable
significant reduction in disaster losses. The
floods in the State of Tabasco in 2007 (UNISDR,
2009) caused losses equivalent to 30 percent of
the state’s GDP. Following the disaster,
FONDEN financed a range of studies of the
region’s hydrology, urban development and
land use, which led to the implementation of
an integrated programme of investments to
reduce disaster risk. The value of these
investments became apparent during the
state’s 2010 floods. Even though rainfall levels
in 2010 were comparable with levels in 2007,
direct and indirect losses of 2010 were only
one-fifth of those in 2007 (Figure 14.8).

Figure 14.8 Comparing losses from floods in 2007
and 2010 in Tabasco, Mexico

In Indonesia, disaster risk reduction allocations almost doubled from 2006 to 2012 (Table 14.1) as a
proportion of the national budget. About 75 percent is allocated to (mainly corrective) disaster risk
management (Darwanto, 2012).
More than half of the countries have also reported
in the last two HFA review cycles that they specifically incorporate allocations to disaster risk reduction and resilient recovery into their post-disaster
recovery budgets. However, only 15 percent are
able to report on the percentage of this allocation.

(Source: FONDEN)

221

Indonesia, for example, after the experiences of the
Yogyakarta and Central Java Earthquake of 2006,
the West Sumatra Earthquake of 2009 and post
Merapi Eruption of 2010, estimates that 5 percent of
recovery and reconstruction funds are assigned to
disaster risk reduction.xii Estimates in other countries vary considerably: Senegal estimates this at 2
percent; Bahrain, 5 percent; Anguilla, between 20
percent and 40 percent; and Colombia, 60 percent.
How these funds are used is currently not well documented. But as Box 14.7 shows, investments in corrective risk management in recovery and reconstruction programmes may contribute to reductions
in disaster risks.
These investments in corrective risk management
are essential. Without appropriate maintenance and
potentially required retrofitting, aging infrastructure
becomes a risk in both high-income and low-income countries. The bridge collapse in Minnesota,
United States of America, in 2007, is a well-known
example that aging infrastructure causes deaths
and injuries (National Transportation Safety Board,
2007). In Africa, on average, about 30 percent of
countries’ infrastructure assets need rehabilitation
(Briceno-Garmendia et al., 2009).
However, risks to the stock of existing infrastructure
puts to the test even the most risk sensitive investment planning systems. For example, though Peru is
at the forefront of building disaster risk considerations into public investment planning, it reports
major challenges with assessing and addressing disaster-related risks to major development projects
and its stock of infrastructure. It rates itself as having made some progress, but without systematic
policy and institutional commitment (progress level
2 in the HFA Monitor). Similarly, Switzerland, a country with sophisticated disaster risk management
policy, legislation and practices in place, reports
that a major challenge will be the retrofitting of a
large stock of existing buildings that are vulnerable
to earthquakes, including a number of historical
buildings.

222

Part III - Chapter 14

Poor coordination between capital and maintenance expenditures often occurs in countries that
operate dual budgeting systems, which separate
capital from current expenditure (Orihuela, 2012).
Though this practice might be useful to make investment priorities clearer, investment in infrastructure needs to be appraised in terms of both capital
and operating (including maintenance) costs.
Notes
i	 Unless cited otherwise, all data referring to national progress or
challenges presented in this chapter are based on national self-assessment reports of progress against the HFA as submitted through
the HFA Monitor.
ii	 http://www.preventionweb.net/english/hyogo/hfa-monitoring/national/?pid:73&pih:2.
iii	 As of 22 March 2013.
iv	 Geographical regions are defined according to the ‘Composition
of macro geographical (continental) regions’ of the United Nations
Statistics Division, Standard Country and Area Codes Classification.
v	 Forthcoming UNISDR summary report of national progress in
implementing the HFA 2005-2013 (for publication in 2013).
vi	 Forthcoming UNISDR summary report of national progress in
implementing the HFA 2005-2013 (for publication in 2013).
vii	 Government of Thailand, Board of Investment: http://thailandboi.com/investment-zones.html (accessed 30-10-2012).
viii	 Data from Emerald Insight in: Community, Environment and
Disaster Risk Management Journal, Vol. 8): http://www.emeraldinsight.com/books.htm?issn=2040-7262&volume=8&chapterid=1700
0011&show=html.
ix	 The disaster risk reduction allocations were calculated using
embedded investment criteria developed by Dhar Chakrabarti,
2012; they are not to be considered official statistics of the Government of India.
x	 In Mexico, DRR is defined as prevention (to avoid new risks) and
risk reduction (reduce existing risks).
xi	 Information directly contributed to UNISDR in support of the
2013 Global Assessment Report.
xii	 Chief of the National Agency for Disaster Management (BNPB)
regulation No. 17/2011 on rehabilitation and reconstruction; the
Disaster Management Plan 2010-2014 and National Action Plan for
Disaster Risk Reduction 2010–2012.

Chapter 15

Anticipating Risk

223

Countries are yet to embrace a forward-looking and proactive approach to disaster risk management. A key component of such prospective risk management is the identification of appropriate
risk management and financing strategies for different layers of risk. For events with low to medium-sized losses, it is more cost-effective to reduce risks than to rely on risk transfer strategies. And
prospective risk management, involving factoring risk reduction into investment planning is more
cost-effective than having to correct risk levels once the investment is made.
Many national risk-financing strategies still reflect a vision of disasters as exogenous shocks rather
than of risk as an endogenous characteristic of investment flows. As such, the cost of risk financing is
likely to grow except in countries that are making major investments in risk reduction.

15.1

How prospective is 		
prospective enough?

Without prospective risk management, countries will lose competitiveness and the inability
to guarantee the infrastructure that business requires to be competitive itself. A number of nascent shifts in approach, however, are emerging
from several countries that contribute to a move
towards prospective disaster risk management—in the areas of legalisation, institutional
arrangements and strategic programming.
More than ever, it is recognised that ultimately, disaster risk will be reduced only if mechanisms are implemented to avoid risk accumulation in new public
and private investment (Heitzmann et al., 2002; Blaikie et al., 2004; UNDP, 2004; UNISDR, 2007; DFID,
2006; Thomalla et al., 2006; UNISDR, 2011). Although
the trend of growing investment in corrective risk
management noted in the previous chapter is positive and encouraging, to be effective, it needs to be
matched by prospective disaster risk management
(UNISDR, 2011; Lavell, 2003), which means employing
a truly anticipatory rather than reactive or corrective
approach to disaster risk. Without prospective risk
management, countries will lose competitiveness
and the inability to guarantee the infrastructure
that business requires to be competitive itself.
The Hyogo Framework for Action (HFA) identified
several key components that contribute to a truly
prospective approach, including understanding
224

Part III - Chapter 15

the risk footprint of a country; providing full access
to risk information; and addressing the underlying
drivers of risk. Prospectively managing risks related to business investment, however, has not yet
been given full consideration in the HFA.
Progress in adopting a prospective approach to disaster risk reduction is still limited. Costa Rica, Panama and Peru (Bernal, 2012), for example, have now
incorporated an analysis of disaster risk into public
investment planning (UNISDR, 2009; UNISDR, 2011).
These efforts, however, are still challenging. In Panama, disaster risk analysis applies only to large-scale
projects and national investments.i This means that
smaller-scale local level investment decisions are
not included. And because most disaster losses in
Panama are associated with damage to local infrastructure, this weakens the effectiveness of the
measure.
Where political pressure exists in favour of investment in particular industries or regions of a country, these imperatives may override the risk and
project analysis promoted by technical units of finance ministries (Orihuela, 2012). If systems of national investment planning are bypassed, disaster
risk criteria lose their relevance, and investment
projects may get the green light even without mandated risk assessments completed.
Land-use planning is another area with unresolved
challenges. Few disaster risk management systems

have been able to employ land-use planning and
management and influence investment policies to
encourage effective disaster risk management
(Johnson, 2011; UNISDR, 2011). Instead, different
public and private institutions transform the landscape of city regions; they push different agendas
and operate outside of an overall coherent risk
management framework.
In Costa Rica, for example, for more than 44 years,
successive governments have not been able to finalise and implement the National Land-Use Plan
(Brenes and Bonilla, 2012). The Controller’s office
considers that the absence of this Plan contributes to development that is characterised by high
social costs, deficient infrastructure and urban
development in ecologically fragile and hazardexposed areas. Unregulated urban development
has increased flood risk in many areas and has
been identified by the National Emergency Commission as a principal cause of the severe losses
registered during the 2010–2011 ENSO episode in
Costa Rica.
A number of nascent shifts in approach, however,
are emerging from several countries that contribute to a move towards prospective disaster risk
management—in the areas of legalisation, institutional arrangements and strategic programming.
For example, Colombia passed a new disaster risk
management framework, including establishment
of a multi-sector and multi-stakeholder national
committee that will be in charge of both prospective and corrective risk management. Peru has
moved responsibility for disaster risk management
to a new agency located in the Ministry of the Presidency. Also, about 25 percent of countries that assessed their progress against the HFA in 2011–2013
reported that responsibility for oversight of disaster risk management was located in the highest office, i.e. of the Prime Minister or President. Another
13 percent reported that these functions reside in
a central planning or coordination unit.

The 2011–2013 HFA review also highlights new policies, strategies and laws for disaster risk management; many provide for sharper focus on both prospective and corrective risk management and an
integration of disaster risk management with climate change adaptation.
Ethiopia, for example, adopted policies for integrated environmental management and rural development, which include disaster risk reduction
elements. One such policy, the five-year Growth
and Transformation Plan, has integral elements on
disaster risk reduction and climate change adaptation; the forthcoming DRM Strategic Programme
and Investment Framework also integrates disaster risk reduction with climate change adaptation.
Namibia in 2012 passed a new Disaster Risk Management Act establishing a new National Disaster
Fund that supports not only relief and recovery but
also disaster risk management (Government of Namibia, 2012).
The United States of America recognizes that disaster resilience is an important aspect of overall
economic health of the nation and sustainability of
communities (National Academies, 2012). Community resilience indicators are being explored to help
drive more effective integration of disaster risk
considerations into sustainable development policies, planning and programming (CSRI, 2011).
In Vanuatu, the National Disaster Risk Management
Office (NDMO) has been strengthened and new arrangements finalised for integrating governance of
disaster risk reduction and climate change adaptation efforts. In addition, a new National Advisory
Board for disaster risk reduction and climate
change adaptation will soon be approved.

225

15.2

Growing commitment 		
to risk financing

As long as risk financing strategies reflect a vision of disasters as exogenous shocks rather
than of risk as an endogenous characteristic of
investment flows, the cost of risk financing is
likely to grow—except in countries that are making major investments in risk reduction.

ery and reconstruction. As Chapter 4 of this report
highlighted, many countries with high levels of disaster risk would face a serious financing gap in the
event of a major disaster.

In times of constrained public budgets, strengthening financial resilience is becoming a critical task for
hazard-exposed economies worldwide (Government of Mexico and World Bank, 2012). As Figure
15.1 highlights, for events with low to medium-sized
losses, it is more cost-effective to reduce risks than
to rely on risk-financing strategies. And factoring
risk reduction into investment planning is more
cost-effective than having to correct risk levels once
the investment is made (UNISDR, 2011).

Table 15.1 shows the diversity of recent experience
in risk financing. For example, Mexico is transferring risk to capital markets via catastrophe bonds.
The parametric index used in this case allows
prompt payment, made as soon as the predefined
event occurs while ensuring relatively high levels of
transparency (Swiss Re, 2011b; G20/OECD, 2012).
Although the Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance
Facility was the first regional scheme to use a parametric mechanism, the Central America Natural
Disaster Insurance Facility has introduced a new
approach based on an estimation of the population normally affected by a disaster. This scheme is
expected to be applied to more countries and beyond physical hazards (Swiss Re, 2011b).

In the case of medium-sized to extreme losses, however, risk financing is essential to ensure macroeconomic stability and to facilitate financing of recov-

There are other examples reported by countries
through the HFA Monitor. The Government of Ethiopia has established robust mechanisms to finance

Figure 15.1 Efficiency of risk management instruments and occurrence probability

(Source: Mechler et al., 2012)

226

Part III - Chapter 15

Table 15.1 Risk financing in selected countries

(Source: UNISDR, based on Swiss Re, 2011)

preparedness measures, including the National Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Fund and the
Risk Financing Mechanism—the latter, a multi-million dollar contingent fund employed at the time of
major droughts.
As highlighted in Chapter 7, the Pacific Catastrophic
Risk Assessment and Financing Initiative (PCRAFI) is
currently being developed and will be tested in the
Marshall Islands. The PCRAFI assists the Pacific Island Countries (PICs) in shifting from post-disaster
donor assistance to ex ante budget planning. The
Pacific Disaster Reserve Fund is being established
as a prototype risk pooling mechanism. This joint reserve mechanism would allow PICs to build up regional reserves against intensive disasters, supported by initial donor contributions and, if necessary,
protected by global reinsurance. The Fund will provide incremental resources to restore essential services to countries after disasters and would help
them in their recovery and reconstruction.

is led by the Deputy Directorate of Risk within its
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (MHCP) (Government of Mexico and World Bank, 2012). It is also
developing a strategy to deal with fiscal vulnerability to disaster risk, which would align with existing
risk management strategies related to contingent liabilities from credit operations, public-private partnerships (PPPs) and legal proceedings against the
nation (Ibid.).
Although this momentum in selected countries is
encouraging, the global debate still reflects a vision
of disasters as exogenous shocks (G20/OECD, 2012)
rather than of risk as an endogenous characteristic
of investment flows. As such, the cost of risk financing is likely to grow except in countries that are making major investments in risk reduction. This highlights that while risk financing is an important
component of a comprehensive disaster risk management strategy, to be successful, it depends on
complementary efforts to reduce risks.

Colombia has emerged as a leader in its efforts to
fully assess its contingent liabilities. It has begun to
integrate liabilities emanating from disaster risk into
its management of government liabilities; the effort
227

15.3

Expanded risk governance:
integrating public and 		
private approaches

Governance structures, particularly at the local
level, can build on the experience and vested interest of businesses with large fixed assets, such
as real estate companies, developers, investment banks, large stores and property management firms to more effectively manage disaster
risk. The successful partnering of such large
companies, as well as small and medium suppliers, with public planning bodies should play an
important role in reducing vulnerability and exposure to physical hazards.
Progress in truly prospective disaster risk management may be incipient at best. However, disaster
risk management and reduction is starting to gain
some space on the competitiveness agendas of
governments. Policy-makers responding to a recent survey on perceptions of disaster risk and future uncertainty noted the increasing interconnectedness of economies and resulting vulnerability to
synchronous and cascading failures and shocks
(Kent, 2013; Ipsos MORI, 2013). It is also increasingly
recognised that the more long term the perspective
is on risk and uncertainty, the more it becomes an
international and trans-boundary concern and less
a national capacity issue (Ipsos MORI, 2013).
The focus on longer-term risks in governments and
many international organisations is still relatively

new (Kent, 2013). Countries are just beginning to develop a more strategic approach to planning for
risks, and some are indicating that a cultural change
is taking place in which awareness, supported by
greater media coverage and open debate of disaster
risk, is increasing (Box 15.1).
The impact of Hurricane Sandy in 2012 highlighted
how risk governance frameworks need to consider
these new dimensions of risk.
New York dealt comparatively well with the severe
impacts of Hurricane Sandy, but the sheer scale of
losses, such as the estimated US$10 billion to the
New York subway system alone—the worst damage in its history, confirm that new dimensions of
risk and resilience may need to be considered, particularly in large urban areas with interconnected
and interdependent infrastructure systems.ii
Both Super-storm Sandy in 2012 and the Great
East Japan Earthquake in 2011 were characterised
by the breakdown of electricity generation and
supply systems. In today’s global economy, almost
all critical infrastructures, including ICT and transportation, depend on electricity (OECD, 2011). This
corresponds with the survey conducted in six cities
of the Americas, described in Chapter 10, where
more than half of the 1,197 businesses identified
business disruptions owing to power outages as a
main concern when disasters hit (Sarmiento and
Hoberman, 2012). Therefore, local and national
governments need to identify key risk amplifiers

Box 15.1 Making futures real – the importance of risk perceptions at senior policy levels

An innovative initiative looking at perceptions of current and long-term risks, conducted in partnership with
two leading research institutes—Kings College and Ipsos MORI—and UNISDR, reached out to 30 senior policymakers in planning and finance ministries of national governments and in relevant multilateral organisations.
The initiative completed in-depth qualitative interviews that form the basis for a more systematic and regular
assessment of changing risk perceptions among senior policy-makers.
Results from initial interviews mirror the findings of the HFA Monitor, and highlight the importance of continuing promotion of risk identification, data collection and risk assessment at the country level. Few country representatives reported engaging in a full risk identification process, meaning that their assessments and consequent decision-making are based mainly on known risks and uncertainty and future risks are not considered.
(Source: Kent, 2013; Ipsos MORI, 2012)

228

Part III - Chapter 15

and understand the interdependencies of the
many systems that carry today’s societies (Menoni
et al., 2012) and which create systemic vulnerabilities characterised by interconnectedness, lack of
redundancy and transferability (Van der Veen and
Logtmeijer, 2005).
For example, financial service organisations running business-critical applications need to ensure
low latency for data transition, such as the submillisecond transactions required by the New York
Stock Exchange. The closer the data centre is to
the user, the faster data are transmitted. Thus
these facilities tend to be heavily concentrated in
or near urban areas. The impact of Sandy was a
stark reminder that disasters can wreak havoc on
these critical data centres and the companies that
rely on them. In the United States of America, these
facilities are all located in the same areas where
over the last 50 years FEMA has declared a disaster
at least once.iii Clearly, the need for backup strategies is crucial.iv

In Japan, during and after the 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake, several policies were reviewed,
which resulted in changes to the existing risk governance structure. These have since been implemented (Box 15.2).
Changes such as these are occurring in other regions, based on experience of disasters and concerns about future uncertainty. The role of the private sector, both in response and recovery as well
as in prospective disaster risk management, is gaining importance.
Local governments and in particular large municipalities can find strong allies among businesses
with large fixed assets, such as real estate companies, developers, investment banks, large stores
and property management firms to more effectively
manage disaster risks (Elkin, 1987; Kataria and Zerjav, 2012; Johnson et al., 2012). ‘Communities of interest’ (Kataria and Zerjav, 2012) are being formed
by businesses and local governments, which can

Box 15.2 Rethinking governance structures during and after the 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake

The unprecedented scale of the disaster following the Great East Japan Earthquake of 2011 meant that not only
national and local governments but also private sector and civil organizations participated in recovery. Lessons learned from this integrated approach are being fed into new policies.
1. Strengthened Regional Cooperation: The disaster overwhelmed the capacity of individual local governments, which received support from other less-affected municipalities. Partnerships between local governments from different provinces have since been formalised.
2. Role of National Government to Support Local Government: The disaster impacted directly on the functioning of local government and in many cities the subsequent lack of capacity, particularly of officials with experience in managing urban development projects, was an obstacle to recovery. In response, the national government mobilised experienced officials from all over Japan.
3. Horizontal Cooperation at National Level: The reconstruction process has also strengthened horizontal cooperation between all sectors. Established in February 2012, a Reconstruction Agency headed by the Prime
Minister coordinates aligned activities as for example a joint effort of the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLIT) and the Ministry of Education to develop schools as community centres and shelters
for times of crisis.
4. Public-Private Partnerships (PPPs): Even the capital region of Tokyo faced challenges from the disaster. The
government has amended legislation to allow Urban Renaissance Councils, consisting of national and local governments, real estate developers, railway companies and property owners, to develop plans for urban safety.
5. Public Involvement: The national government is also promoting transmission of disaster history and its lessons to future generations to decrease vulnerability; for example, through constructing archives in the National
Diet Library.
(Source: Government of Japan, 2012b, 2012c)

229

play an important role in reducing vulnerability and
exposure to physical hazards.
As identified in Chapter 14, however, the potential
for prospective risk management is limited because
those parts of government promoting investment
rarely participate in national disaster risk management platforms or committees. Further, private sector participation is usually restricted to emergency
management and preparedness (Johnson et al.,
2012; IIHS, 2012).
Countries’ self-assessments reflect this limitation,
with only 36 countries out of 94 reporting on the
number of private sector bodies represented in their
national platforms. Of these 36, 19 countries have
only 1-3 private sector representatives. Canada is a
notable exception, with 20 private sector representatives; 24 academic institutions; 18 federal departments and agencies, including national finance and
planning institutions; 9 provinces and territories; 15
municipalities and 2 representatives of the general
public participating in its national coordination platform for disaster risk management.
In their self-assessment of progress against the HFA
in 2011–2013, 52 percent of governments report on
cooperation with the private sector in emergency
preparedness and response. However, only a few
describe a more proactive role of private businesses
and ex-ante partnerships. Bangladesh, for example,
reports investments to create new PPPs for integrated development with a focus on disaster risk reduction. Mauritius has made engagement in disaster
risk management compulsory for businesses under
a law on corporate social responsibility. Colombia
has developed a new disaster risk management
framework under which it explicitly sees the private
sector as a strategic partner. The United States of
America is addressing business interruption and
helping to build resilience to disasters through a
number of programmes, including ‘Ready Business’.
Interestingly, the number of private sector entities
included in national coordinating bodies is highest
230

Part III - Chapter 15

in Africa. This means that governments are looking
to the private sector for support in disaster risk
management, where risk governance budgets are
limited and capabilities are weakest.

15.4

Filling the information 	
vacuum

Revealing the ownership of risk and taking on
joint responsibilities among private and public
actors is a key step towards effective risk reduction. However, this can only be achieved
when disaster risk information is available and
accessible to make visible the risks generated
by the investment decisions of businesses, governments and households.
The most important area for private sector engagementmay be around hazard information and joint
public-private risk assessments. PPPs to manage disaster risk will only be effective when underpinned
by open and accessible risk information and disaster loss data. This is in the interest of both governments and businesses, particularly small and medium local enterprises that lack the capacity to
undertake their own risk analysis (Marome, 2012).
Lack of visibility of disaster risk, and clarity over who
owns what risk, remains a major barrier to taking
risk into account in investment decisions. Disaster
losses are often not systematically accounted for;
disaster risk information is rarely available to guide
either private or public decision-making; and transfer of risk between the private and public sectors
and between both and civil society are rarely explicit (UNISDR, 2011; Kent, 2013). In the survey conducted among senior policy-makers in 2012, inadequate availability of disaster data was one of the
most commonly stated barriers to risk assessment
and planning at the national level (Kent, 2013).
Of the countries undertaking self-assessments of
progress against the Hyogo Framework for Action in
2011–2013, less than half report that national and lo-

cal risk assessments based on hazard data and vulnerability information are available and include risk
assessments for key sectors.v And only 44 of 94 countries assess future and probable risk, whereas 45
countries undertake multi-hazard risk assessments.
Only 40 percent of countries reporting through the
HFA Monitor in 2011–2013 note that they have
agreed national standards for multi-hazard risk assessments. However, this already represents progress compared with the last review cycle in 2009–
2011 when only 25 percent confirmed having such
standards in place. In 2013, 32 countries report they
have a common format for risk assessments and 31
report the existence of risk assessment formats that
are customised for users. Of all countries, only 18 report having both.
Although far from the majority of countries worldwide have mechanisms for collecting, storing and
analysing disaster loss data regularly and systematically, a fast-growing number have recognised the

importance of this relatively low-cost, high-benefit
strategy. Out of 94 countries, 73 report that they collect, monitor and analyse disaster loss data, and 58
countries confirm the existence and regular updating of national disaster loss databases. Of these, 46
make use of reports based on loss data for planning
in finance, planning and sector line ministries.
Several low and middle-income countries report
that systematic data collection and sharing depends on resources provided through bilateral and
multilateral cooperation. Efforts in establishing systematic disaster information systems, therefore, are
hampered by short-term, one-off project approaches, which are difficult to institutionalise and sustain
(UNISDR, 2012).
Progress, however, is being made, as seen in Box
15.5, which provides examples on partnerships in
building information bases for earthquake risk reduction.

Box 15.5 Improving the information base on building vulnerability to earthquakes

Assessing the vulnerability of the built environment to earthquakes is extremely important in assessing potential consequences of an event, as well as mainstreaming earthquake risk reduction into the local development
planning process. Understanding the response of existing structures to potential earthquakes requires the
knowledge of building materials and engineering practices, which vary widely at the local level. This information base can only be reliably and sustainably developed at the local level; however, this is rarely done.
Buildings’ exposure and vulnerability is an important part of the Rapid Earthquake Damage Assessment System (REDAS) developed by PHILVOLC, the Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology. The Institute, in
partnership with Geoscience Australia and supported by the Australian Agency for International Development
(AusAID), has been developing the first national-scale building exposure database. Validation and enhancement of this database at the local level started with Iloilo City, facilitated by the Institute of Civil Engineering of
the University of the Philippines Diliman (UPD-ICE) with the support of professional structural engineering societies in the Philippines. Through this engagement, the local engineering community agreed to deliver a building classification schema and corresponding earthquake vulnerability models.
Another example of successful and long-term partnership in enhancing the information base for earthquake
risk reduction is the Australia Indonesia Facility for Disaster Risk Reduction (AIFDR).vi After the September 2009
earthquake that struck West Sumatra in Indonesia, AIFDR supported a team of Indonesian and international
engineers and scientists who collected and analysed damage information. This team, co-led by Geoscience
Australia and the Institute of Technology, Bandung, examined damaged buildings to identify the structural
characteristics that may have contributed to their damage state, and provided a systematic survey of the complete populations of both damaged and undamaged structures. The project has provided a broad categorisation of the Indonesian building stock and it provides the basis for developing for a national model of the vulnerability of building structures in Indonesia.
(Source: Geoscience Australia)vii

231

Importantly, new initiatives bridging public and private risk assessment are emerging. Several new
tools are now offered for business, including Swiss
Re’s Global Flood Zones component of its CATNet
information platform or Maplecroft’s Natural Hazards Risk Atlas.viii Although these are based on proprietary risk information and models, the insurance
industry is now beginning to use public domain risk
information, including information produced for the

GAR, to produce new applications for corporate clients (Box 15.6).
New PPPs are emerging for risk modelling, such as
the Global Earthquake Model (GEM), which will generate common standards and platforms for both users and producers of risk information (Box 15.7).
In addition, also at local levels, alternative assess-

Box 15.6 Atlas empowers risk managers

Willis, one of the world’s largest insurance brokers, has developed a unique risk management solution for company boards, CFOs and corporate risk managers. Atlas is a platform that assists clients to assess disaster risks
across their asset base to limit their exposure to direct losses or business interruption. It gathers and interprets
a range of open source and proprietary datasets, which are blended with a client’s own risk information, to deliver deep insights into a company’s risk profile around the world. In the development of Atlas, Willis worked
closely with UNISDR and used information produced for the GAR by UNEP/GRID-Geneva from 2007 to 2011.
By using Atlas as part of their regular workflow, corporate risk managers can visualise how a range of risks can
adversely affect their property and asset portfolios. The UNISDR data are used in Atlas to score each site location against a catastrophe risk index. The risk manager is also able to visually explore the sites and each global
hazard within the Atlas map to quickly illustrate how, why and where the company is exposed, thereby enabling
the identification of risk hotspots.
Atlas empowers risk managers to take proactive control of the risks they face. It highlights strengths, weaknesses and where improvements need to be made in a company’s risk management programme. This helps a
risk manager prioritise investments in risk reduction and improves business resilience and performance. At the
same time, increased risk visibility and an enhanced risk management programme enables brokers, such as
Willis, to secure more competitive insurance premiums from the commercial market.
(Source: Willis Reix )

Box 15.7 Global partnership, forefront science and standardisation to characterise earthquake risk: the collaborative GEM initiative

The Global Earthquake Model (GEM) was launched in 2006 and has since brought together an extensive community of earthquake scientists, social scientists, including economists, as well as IT specialists, in consultation
with the private sector and governments. Together they are developing a global model of earthquake hazard,
exposure, vulnerability and risk, as well as tools and resources to use the model and its outputs. GEM is a nonprofit initiative, driven by a PPP whose mission is to “raise risk awareness and promote preparedness” on
earthquake risk.
The project is continuously evolving, and the outcome will include exposure databases containing information
on socio-economic characteristics as well as physical features such as building types; an extensive catalogue of
past earthquakes; and tools for characterising earthquake hazard, including modelling global stress, subduction
zones and active faults, ground motion, etc. As these products become available through an open source and
dynamic platform, they will be constantly updated as the science evolves and new data are collected. The GEM
project further aims to develop and promote standards that will enable improved data and knowledge exchange.

(Source: GEMx )

232

Part III - Chapter 15

Box 15.8 A ‘Public Hurricane Loss Model’ for Florida

To address the challenge of limited access to proprietary risk models available from the insurance industry,
Florida International University (FIU) in Miami has begun developing a public loss model to assess hurricane
risk in Florida. The model provides results on expected annual insured losses for specific properties or by coverage, construction type, ZIP code and county for the state of Florida. It also calculates the probable maximum
loss that should be insured for any specific property that can then be compared with results and premiums
proposed by insurance companies.
This model does not compete with proprietary models, but instead seeks to complement them and provide additional sources of information. Thus, it was developed with the support of nine public institutions and private
sector organisations and certified by the Florida Commission on Hurricane Loss Projection Methodology. Although the model already includes the quantification of economic benefits of hurricane mitigation, FIU is working to enhance the model with storm surge and flood hazard components.
(Source: Florida International University, Extreme Events Institutexi)

ment instruments and risk models are being employed to provide checks and balances to proprietary models that for public entities, such as local
governments or scientific institutions, can be a
‘black box’ (see Box 15.8). These new initiatives
open the path to improved access to multi-dimensional risk information for a variety of stakeholders.

x	 Information provided directly to UNISDR by GEM in support of
the 2013 Global Assessment Report. For more information on GEM,
see: http://www.globalquakemodel.org/.
xi	 Submitted as an unpublished case study to the 2013 Global Assessment Report. For more information on the Model, see: http://
www.cis.fiu.edu/hurricaneloss/.

Notes
i	 For example, in Panama, the System for National Investment
Planning (SNIP) regulation only applied to large-scale projects of
more than US$10 million (Orihuela, 2012).
ii	 The statement made by New York’s Metropolitan Transit Authority chairman Joseph J. Lhota in the aftermath of Sandy could not
be clearer. On the morning of 30 October 2012, he said: “The New
York City subway system is 108 years old, but it has never faced a disaster as devastating as what we experienced last night. Hurricane
Sandy wreaked havoc on our entire transportation system, in every
borough and county of the region.” (http://live.reuters.com/Event/
Tracking_Storm_Sandy/54277687).
iii	 http://www.fema.gov/disasters/grid/year.
iv	 http://gigaom.com/2013/01/10/the-states-with-the-most-data-centers-are-also-the-most-disaster-prone-maps.
v	 41 of 94 countries, as of January 2013.
vi	 The Australia Indonesia Facility for Disaster Risk Reduction is a
partnership between the Australian and Indonesian governments
aiming to reduce the impact from natural disasters by “strengthening national and local capacity in disaster management in Indonesia, and promoting a more disaster resilient region”.
vii	 Information provided directly to UNISDR by Geoscience Australia in Support of the 2013 Global Assessment Report.
viii	 www.globalquakemodel.org. 	
http://www.swissre.com/reinsurance/insurers/property_casualty/
Swiss_Re_Global_Flood_Zones_enabling_better_business_decisions.html and http://maplecroft.com/themes/nh/.
ix	 Information provided directly to UNISDR by Willis Re in support
of the 2013 Global Assessment Report.

233

Chapter 16

Conclusion:
From Shared Risk to Shared Value

As the ongoing global economic crisis has put a spotlight on hidden risks in the global economic system, landmark disasters, such as Hurricane Sandy in 2012 and the East Japan Earthquake and Chao
Phraya river floods in Thailand in 2011, may have contributed to a turning point in business awareness of disaster risks.
Businesses and governments are beginning to recognise a new category of toxic assets as an unforeseen consequence of economic globalisation. While these toxic assets do not currently appear on
their balance sheets, embedding disaster risk management in business processes is increasingly
seen as a key to resilience, competitiveness and sustainability: a business survival kit in an increasingly unpredictable, complex and fast-changing world.
But this change is recent, and there are few blueprints or well-worn paths to follow. In the coming
years, as more businesses innovate and gain experience in this area, new paradigms will emerge
that in turn will help to redefine the future of disaster risk reduction.

The transformation of the global economy over the
last 40 years has created unprecedented wealth:
Global GDP grew by 75 percent between 1992 and
2011 and global GDP per capita by 40 percent, while
the proportion of the world’s population living in
extreme poverty fell from 46 percent in 1990 to 27
percent in 2005. Global life expectancy increased
by 3.5 years between 1990 and 2010, and an estimated 90 percent of the global population will have
access to clean water by 2015, up from 77 percent
in 1990 (United Nations Secretary General, 2012).
At the same time, and as demonstrated in this report, business practices that have accompanied
economic globalisation have often led to an unsustainable accumulation of disaster risk. Large
businesses felt the magnitude of this unrealised
risk in the disasters associated with Super-Storm
Sandy in 2012 and the East Japan Earthquake and
Chao Phraya river floods in Thailand in 2011. Smaller businesses, particularly in low and middle-income countries, are reminded more regularly of
the accumulation of extensive risk through recur-

rent disasters that damage the infrastructure on
which they depend. As a result, both businesses
and governments begin to recognise a new category of toxic assets as an unforeseen consequence
of economic globalisation. These toxic assets do
not currently appear on their balance sheets.
This recognition has yet to trigger a paradigm shift
in the values that underpin business decision-making. Hazard-exposed locations offer comparative
advantages, creating powerful imperatives to run
the risk. But this risk is slowly but surely appearing
on business radar screens, especially when assessing trade-offs between costs and opportunities involved in any new investment.
In recent years, intensive disasters have revealed disaster risks embedded in the contemporary economic landscape. As the ongoing global economic
crisis has put a spotlight on hidden risks in the global economic system, these landmark disasters may
have contributed to a turning point in business
awareness of disaster risks. As such, disaster risk
235

management is being increasingly viewed less as an
additional cost and more as an opportunity to enhance business resilience, competitiveness and sustainability.
But this change is recent, and there are few blueprints or well-worn paths to follow. As such, this
concluding chapter offers a compass rather than
detailed navigational charts. In the coming years, as
more businesses innovate and gain experience in
this area, a new practice will emerge that in turn will
help to redefine the future of disaster risk reduction.

16.1

Intersecting global 		
crisis

Any economic system is underpinned by values
(Castells et al., 2012). The increases in productivity and growth achieved during 40 years of economic globalisation have been nothing short of
spectacular. But this growth has been achieved
at the cost of an over-accumulation of shared
risks that now threaten competitiveness and sustainability. Markets have placed greater value on
short-term returns on capital than on sustainability and resilience. And businesses achieving
these returns have been deemed competitive by
investors.
Evidence gathered for GAR13 attests that this veneer of competitiveness may often be illusory. Businesses have exploited comparative advantages of
different locations by decentralizing and outsourcing production, and have accelerated turnover time
by fine-tuning the efficiency of their supply chains.
In the process, however, they have increased their
own exposure and vulnerability to earthquakes,
storms, tsunamis, floods and droughts. In many
cases, they have also generated significant shared
social and environmental risks and costs.
As a result, many apparently productive and profitgenerating assets on business accounts may really
be disaster-prone contingent and potential liabili236

Chapter 16

ties. This contingent liability extends to (i) financial
institutions—such as pension funds, sovereign
wealth funds—that have invested significant parts
of their portfolio in businesses whose assets are at
risk; and (ii) cities and countries that have hidden
and dissimulated their disaster risks to attract investment. Imagery used by cities and countries to
highlight their comparative advantages is increasingly sophisticated and now relies as much on intangible values, related to quality of life, as on the
basic conditions of competitiveness, such as infrastructure and the labour force. But in hazard-exposed locations, these comparative advantages are
also illusory and can be dispelled with a single intensive disaster. GAR13 opened with the example of
the decline of the Port of Kobe following the 1995
earthquake—once the spell is broken and business
leaves, it may never return.
The global financial crisis that began in 2007 has
metamorphosed into a broader economic, political
and social crisis, particularly in Europe and the United States of America. One of the visible causes of
the crisis was an over-accumulation of financial risk
through large flows of capital into speculative, debtfinanced urban development. This debt—and the
risks it internalized—was then sold and shared
through opaque investment vehicles that had not
been assessed or valued.
The accumulation of disaster risk in recent decades
is analogous. In many hazard-exposed countries,
governments, institutional investors, businesses
and households are now sitting on another mountain of hidden debt—the contingent liabilities represented by unrealized disaster risk. This disasterprone capital stock, whether privately or publicly
owned, represents another category of toxic assets,
which do not appear on any balance sheets.
In addition, the contemporary world is characterized by unmitigated climate change, volatile energy
markets, material resource, water and food scarcity,
unequal wealth distribution, increasing consumption, increasing urbanization, ecosystem decline,

economic and political turmoil, rapid technological
change and the increasing interconnectedness of
global trade, financial markets, and supply chains
(PwC, 2012, KPMG, 2012), among other factors.
These processes interact with each other and are
underlying drivers of disaster risk. In this context,
the ripple effects of recent intensive disasters have
contributed to a world viewed more and more as a
set of intersecting crises where it is increasingly difficult to separate cause from consequence (Williams, 2012). Many future disasters will form part of a
challenging terrain of improbable and un predictable events.
The number of business surveys released in the
last years (Deloitte, 2012; Ernst and Young, 2012;
Forbes, 2012; Aon Benfield, 2011) all highlight that
businesses perceive an increasingly riskier marketplace characterized by complexity, uncertainty,
unpredictable events, and sudden change in which
risks can manifest themselves swiftly and unexpectedly, with far-reaching ramifications.
In this environment of uncertainty and volatility, the
values that underpin business are starting to
change. Many businesses are becoming more risk
averse and are strengthening their risk management capacities. Risk management is being increasingly perceived less as a cost and more as an opportunity and value proposition. Risk perception,
therefore, seems to have gone through a point of inflection. Businesses are beginning to see effective
risk management as a key competitive advantage
that can enable long-term profitable growth and
sustained future profitability. Many more large businesses report having a dedicated risk management
department, and responsibility and accountability
for risk management is increasingly being vested in
the top layers of management (Deloitte, 2012).
Recent business surveys highlight the value of
strong and effective risk management, including reduced operational, credit, or market losses, and improved reputation and analyst ratings (Accenture,
2011). There are at least three interrelated ways in

which investing in risk management generates results for businesses (Ernst and Young, 2012). First,
identifying, assessing and addressing critical risks
increases ownership and accountability, reducing
uncertainty and strengthening confidence not only
within the business but also among investors, analysts and regulators. Second, addressing critical
risks also can lead to important cost reductions and
savings, which are critical to business performance.
These include avoided losses from business interruption, avoided costs of rehabilitation or relocation
of damaged plant and facilities, as well as efficiencies gained from taking anticipatory or preventative
actions. And third, risk management can also be key
to value creation.
By analysing and valuing risks correctly, businesses
can accept and own certain risks, which provide
competitive advantage; savings from effective risk
management can fund other strategic corporate activities; and investments in risk reduction may lead
to higher returns.
Businesses that have invested the most in risk management may ﬁnancially outperform their peers. A
survey carried out among 576 companies and reviewing almost 3,000 analyst and company reports
highlighted that the 20 percent of businesses that
had invested most heavily in risk management had
implemented on average twice as many key risk capabilities as the 20 percent that had least invested
and on average had earnings three times greater
(Ernst and Young, 2012). Embedding risk management in business processes is increasingly seen as a
key to resilience, competitiveness and sustainability: a business survival kit in an increasingly unpredictable, complex and fast-changing world.
As highlighted in Chapter 11, although corporate
risk management is usually focused on financial,
economic, market and legal risks, there are signs
that disaster risk management is becoming a real
concern. One business survey now lists disaster risk
as the 16th most important out of the top 50 risks,
and as the 6th most important driver strengthening
237

risk management (Aon Benfield, 2011). Some large
global consultancies and brokers are investing to
develop decision platforms for disaster risk management for the business sectori, highlighting that
this will be a growing market as businesses increase
their investments in disaster risk management.
Businesses and their investors, therefore, are just
starting to perceive disaster risk as a critical threat
and the need to include disaster risk management
as an integral component of corporate risk management. Evidence showing that investing in disaster
risk management can give business a competitive
edge is mounting. At the same time, as the market
for corporate disaster risk management begins to
develop, it creates major multiplier effects, as more
and more business take investment decisions that
reduce rather than increase disaster risk. In the
same way that individual business investments over
time can accumulate to generate systemic disaster
Figure 16.1 Key areas for the future of risk governance

(Source: UNISDR)

238

Chapter 16

risk, risk-informed investments can over time reduce that systemic risk.
Global foreign direct investment (FDI) is projected
to reach US$1.8 trillion in 2013 and US$1.9 trillion
in 2014 (UNCTAD, 2012). In 2011, 46 percent of this
investment went into manufacturing and another
40 percent into services, including infrastructure.
And approximately US$777 billion or half of all FDI
flowed into low and middle-income countriesii.
Whether or not these trillions of dollars of new investment flow into hazard-exposed areas and how
the resulting disaster risks are managed will have a
decisive impact on the future of disaster risk.
Businesses able to estimate and manage their disaster risks will be less likely to invest in hazardprone areas. And if they do, they will more likely invest in measures to reduce the vulnerability of their
plants and facilities. The same businesses will be

more likely to have addressed disaster risks in their
supply chains and to have increased their resilience.
And the disaster risks they have decided to accept
will be explicit rather than hidden on their balance
sheets. More importantly, they will have recognised
that investing to avoid shared risks and costs and to
address the underlying risk drivers, in partnership
with the public sector and civil society, is not only
good but essential for business itself. Unless those
shared risks are transformed into shared values future business will be neither competitive and sustainable nor resilient.
Already, nascent practices are starting to bring this
emerging paradigm shift from generating shared
risks to creating shared value into focus, opening
new doors, encouraging further questioning, exploratory practices and innovative research. As Figure 16.1 shows, these practices suggest five broad
areas of opportunity for business that in time may
redefine the practice of disaster risk management.

16.2

Putting the disaster into
corporate risk management

As business awareness of disaster risk grows,
more and more businesses will expand their existing risk management strategies to include disaster risk. While they are currently addressing
disaster risk through the lens of business continuity planning, several businesses are gradually
shifting their focus from preparing for and responding to disasters to identifying, analysing
and managing disaster risks.
From business continuity planning to disaster
risk management
As discussed in Chapter 11, most businesses are
currently addressing disaster risk through the paradigm of business continuity planning. Analogous to
emergency preparedness and response approaches in the public sector, business continuity planning
enables businesses to identify potential threats to
their operations and supply chains and to develop

contingency plans that enable business to be resumed quickly and with minimal disruption. By offering immediate and visible benefits, in terms of
predictability and reduced losses, business continuity planning is essential to any corporate risk management strategy.
But while essential, it is only a part and not the
whole. Businesses not only need to strengthen their
resilience when disasters occur but also measure
how their investment decisions are modifying the
levels of disaster risk they face. By shifting their focus from exogenous threats to how risks are constructed through investment decisions, firms will
achieve a major conceptual shift in business culture
with implications for where risk management functions are located in an organisation and the profile
of risk managers.
As Chapters 11 and 15 highlighted, investments are
currently being made in developing new applications and platforms for visualizing and managing
the disaster risks businesses face. As these and
other platforms are brought to the market, corporate risk managers will have access to tools that
can enable disaster risk to be integrated into
broader risk management efforts, beyond the narrow focus on business continuity planning. Such
frameworks and platforms can also facilitate
knowledge networking with peers, scientific institutions and the public sector.
The conceptual shift from managing disasters to
managing risks will be facilitated in businesses
where risk management is already viewed as an integral part of investment planning and corporate
strategy rather than as a specialised department
that helps the business plan and manages contingencies. The shift will also be facilitated in those
businesses where the risk management function
includes staff with a broader understanding of the
dynamics of risk rather than staff with a security
and emergency management background.

239

Increasing awareness of disaster risks
One obstacle to integrating disaster risk considerations into broader corporate risk management is a
lack of awareness of its critical importance among
corporate leaders and senior executives. Until there
is greater awareness of the risks that they currently
face and that may have been created through uninformed investment decisions, businesses will continue to be surprised by disasters.
At present, disaster risk management is not explicitly included in the risk management curriculum of
a majority of business schools and is rarely featured in leading business journals. By adding risk
management to existing business school curricula,
the way that risks are managed in businesses could
begin to shift.
If levels of disaster risk and its management were
included systematically as an indicator in surveys
of risk and business performance, and in analyst
forecasts and reports, this would equally provide a
strong incentive for businesses to strengthen their
disaster risk management function. As further explored below, it would also encourage governments to invest in more effective disaster risk management.
Strengthening disaster risk management in
small and medium enterprises (SMEs)
As Chapter 11 highlighted, although large global
corporations have risk management departments,
few SMEs have the capacities to analyse or address
their disaster risk. However, the growing concern of
large businesses with supply chain vulnerability
and resilience may provide a vehicle to support
and strengthen disaster risk management in SMEs.
Rapid progress is currently being made in analysing
and modelling supply chain risks. Businesses are
examining different strategies to reduce supply
chain risk including adding inventories; shortening
supply chains and increasing supply chain visibility;
design information portability; diversifying risks by
creating redundancy; defining alternative distribu240

Chapter 16

tion channels and suppliers; enhancing relationships with supply chain partners; relocating or protecting high-risk facilities; and working closely with
the public sector. For example, sourcing from only
one supplier can reduce production costs, but increases risk if that supplier is affected in a disaster.
Although having multiple suppliers in different locations may raise transaction costs, it reduces the
risk of disruption by securing supply substitutes.
Similarly, businesses are now increasingly selecting
suppliers on the basis of risk criteria rather than
purely on cost minimization.
SMEs play a critical role in most supply chains.
Large businesses have a vested interest in ensuring
that their supply chain partners, including SMEs,
are managing their disaster risks. Supply chain risk
management may therefore become a vehicle
through which large businesses with the necessary
capacities can strengthen disaster risk management in SMEs, which lack those capacities.

16.3
	

Eyes wide open: integrating
disaster risk information into 	
business investment decisions

Businesses will continue to invest in hazard-exposed locations given the comparative advantages that many of these places offer and because
infrastructure and supply chains are already in
place. Often, accepting a certain level of risk in a
location can give a business a competitive advantage. But by integrating disaster information into
a broader analysis, using appropriate risk metrics
and open access information can mean that investment decisions are taken with eyes wide
open.
Identifying risk appetite
Businesses in the tourism sector will continue to invest in SIDS; in the agribusiness sector, in countries
with large areas of potentially productive farmland;
and in the urban development sector, in rapidly expanding cities in low and middle-income countries.

But some businesses are now starting to include disaster risks when considering the costs and benefits
and trade-offs implicit in these investment decisions.
Integrating disaster risk estimates into a broader
analysis, which takes into account other considerations such as labour costs, access to markets, stability and infrastructure, would enable businesses
to identify which risk layers can be reduced (for example, through investments in strengthened building or protective measures); which risks cannot be
reduced; and which would have to be managed
through other mechanisms, such as insurance, or
those that can neither be reduced nor shared. By
analysing the cost-effectiveness of these different
disaster risk management strategies, businesses
can decide how much disaster risk to accept and
how much to invest in reducing or sharing that risk;
in other words, businesses can now identify how
much risk appetite is appropriate for their goals and
objectives.
Integrating disaster risk metrics into investment planning
To factor disaster risks into their investment decisions, businesses need access to risk information
and up-to-date estimates that can be easily integrated into planning and decision-making. As a first
step, this may consist of horizon scanning of the
countries and cities they are considering for their investment. Developing such disaster risk profiles requires risk information and metrics at an appropriate scale and format.

tion and convergence between private and public
risk modelling, as evidenced by the Understanding
Risk conferences organised by the World Bank in
2010 and 2012iii and new platforms such as the Willis
Re. Atlas platform (see Chapter 15). The GAR global
risk model and national disaster loss databases,
now being published by an increasing number of
countries, are helping to provide open access risk
metrics that can be used for business investment
decisions.
The integration of disaster risk metrics into analytical business forecasts will be another critical path
for improving the availability of risk information,
particularly for businesses that are not able to manage their own risk identification and estimation
platforms.
Opening the black box: open source and open
access disaster risk information
Proprietary risk models produced by the risk modelling industry are designed to provide detailed information to value the prime of specific portfolios of
assets for the insurance industry and to identify potential risks of insolvency. These models are not
necessarily designed to support investment decisions by businesses or governments. As highlighted
in Chapter 13, this contributes to an information
asymmetry in which purchasers of insurance, including businesses and governments, do not have
access to the information that the insurance industry is using to determine pricing levels.

At present, the growing volume of risk information
being produced at different scales—by universities,
scientific and technical institutions and others—is
rarely standardised, compiled or aggregated in a
way that can be used by corporate risk managers,
finance or planning ministries or by city planners
and administrators.

As open source and open access risk information
becomes more readily available and improved, the
situation may begin to change. Increased risk information availability will facilitate a healthy debate
between businesses, governments and insurers regarding risk levels, patterns, trends and pricing. It
may also encourage governments to develop more
appropriate regulatory frameworks for the insurance industry.

But this scenario is changing rapidly. As highlighted
in Chapter 15, new efforts are stimulating interac-

Most important, it will enable a greater social awareness of disaster risks, which in turn may lead to
241

greater investments in disaster risk reduction from
all levels—businesses; local and national governments; communities; and households.

16.4

Towards public-private 		
risk governance

As businesses start to scrutinize the levels of disaster risk internalised in cities and countries
before making investment decisions, this will
change their investment behaviour over time. In
turn, risk-sensitive business investment will provide an important incentive for improved disaster risk management and increased investment
in risk reduction by national and local governments.
Managing risks to strengthen competitiveness
At present, hazard-exposed cities and countries often hide or dissimulate their disaster risk to attract
investment. There is only anecdotal evidence that
cities and countries that effectively manage their disaster risk are more successful at attracting investment than those who understate and underplay
their risk levels. However, as open access risk information becomes increasingly available to business,
and as business becomes more aware of disaster
risk, competitiveness strategies based on risk denial
will become less effective.
As disaster risk starts being factored into business
investment decisions, countries with lower risks or
which can demonstrate that their disaster risks are
effectively managed will have a comparative advantage to attract investment. From this perspective,
attracting continued investment is likely to become
one of the primary motivations for strengthening disaster risk management at the national and local
levels.
Some governments are already beginning to include disaster risk management as part of their
competitiveness agenda. This implies that disaster
risk management will have to be integrated into the
242

Chapter 16

work of trade and investment boards and ministries. For example, information should be provided
on disaster risks and how they are being managed
to potential investors and that information needs to
be factored into the planning vehicles aimed at attracting investment in manufacturing and services,
such as special economic zones, and into the granting of concessions for mining, oil and gas, timber
and agriculture.
Risk-sensitive business investment will also generate a demand for analysis and forecasts that include
rather than ignore disaster risk. And as that analysis
is generated, it will encourage countries to invest
further in disaster risk management. If, at the same
time, disaster risk management is integrated into
the many different competitiveness indices,iv this
will provide further incentives, generating a virtuous
circle in which countries and cities invest in disaster
risk management to enhance their competitiveness,
and businesses invest more in those countries that
can demonstrate effective risk management.
In the case of some very high-risk countries, such as
SIDS, strengthening disaster risk management may
be the most effective way to increase competitiveness. As highlighted in Chapter 7, given their geography and small size of their economies, SIDS have
many constraints to enhancing competitiveness.
Precisely because such a large proportion of their
capital and investment is at risk, reducing that risk
can be their best chance to strengthen competitiveness and attract investment.
New approaches to risk governance
GAR11 laid out the case for integrating disaster risk
management into public investment planning and
called for the strengthening of risk governance in
which finance and planning ministries play a key
role. This built on the findings of GAR09, which highlighted the need for strengthened partnerships between national and local governments and local
communities.
Evidence presented in this report shows that risk

governance at the national and local levels is unlikely to be effective without the involvement of business. Ineffective land-use planning, vulnerable infrastructure and environmental degradation erode
business competitiveness. SMEs in particular are
heavily dependent on publicly managed and regulated infrastructure and services. At the same time,
public regulation alone is rarely effective to regulate
business investment in a way that contributes to risk
reduction. Businesses, therefore, have a vested interest in the effective management of disaster risks
in the city regions where they are located. And to
manage those risks, national and particularly city
and local governments need the participation of
business.
Examples of successful coordination between public administrations and small and large businesses
abound (Wedatta et al., 2012; Ingirige and Amaratunga, 2012). However, as highlighted by the national HFA reports, there is still an enormous gap between policy and strategy, on the one hand, and
between implementation and accountability, on
the other hand, which needs to be bridged. At the
same time, many public-private partnerships (PPPs)
are still limited to emergency response, reflecting
the current focus on disasters rather than on risks in
both public and private sectors.
Actions by the public sector are critical to all sectors. They include creating conditions for a wellstructured and functioning local insurance market;
producing and making available accurate, up-todate and relevant risk information; and working
jointly with business and civil society on regulating
land-use, building and ecosystem services. Given its
role in providing employment, public sector action
to reduce risks faced by SMEs are particularly important.
The counterpart to these actions would be business
participation in national and local risk governance
frameworks on a strategic basis that goes beyond
collaborating in emergencies through the corporate
social responsibility function. This participation

could include, for example, reaching consensus on
land-use planning and zoning decisions in a way
that commits both business sectors and local and
national governments; providing technical support
to designing and implementing disaster risk management strategies and plans; and investing in risk
reduction measures that benefit both business and
the wider community.

16.5

Disclosing the disaster 		
risk balance sheet

Reporting on disaster risk by business is currently largely unregulated, but will become increasingly important in future. Businesses begin to
undertake integrated reporting that includes information on sustainability and risks in the full
picture of business performance. As disaster
risks become factored into the decisions of investors, businesses will then have powerful incentives to invest in effective disaster risk management.
Reporting risks
As highlighted in Chapter 12, increasing pressure
from government regulators is likely to provide a
powerful incentive for businesses to identify, estimate and disclose both their internal and shared
risks. These regulators are confronting businesses
with additional sustainability-related legislation
and fiscal instruments. At present, these additional regulatory requirements are largely focused on
climate change. However, the scope of these instruments could easily be expanded to address
other kinds of disaster risks, including those associated with geological and not just weather-related
hazards. Increasingly, business, investors and governments are recognizing that more transparency
is good for business. Image is improved and reputational risk diminished, which is critical given the
increasing sophistication of the global media in
exposing practices that increase or share disaster
risk. Also the risk or litigation from those sharing
the disaster risks generated by business would be
243

reduced. This is particularly important give new
and emerging perspectives on claims and compensation.

income, there is a strong incentive to make investments that avoid the generation of shared disaster
risks.

If both disaster risks internalised in a business’s
own assets and operations as well as shared risks
that are transferred to others are accounted for
and reported, then investors would be able to factor these risks into their investment decisions,
avoiding businesses with high and unmanaged disaster risk. Improved reporting would also encourage disaster risk to be factored into analyst and
credit ratings, which would further encourage
businesses to invest in effectively managing their
disaster risks.

In principle, fund beneficiaries can gain from reduced environmental costs associated with fund investments, i.e. by reducing the corporate externalities of business investments, the value of the funds
can increase, and costs—such as higher taxes to
compensate for externalities—can be significantly
reduced (UNEP FI and PRI, 2011).

Similarly, improved reporting may contribute to
more sensitive insurance pricing. Insurance pricing
could then become another important catalyst for
greater transparency in equity markets and more
prudent investment practices (Stahel and Orie,
2012).
One issue that needs to be addressed is agreement
on common standards and metrics for measuring
and quantifying disaster risks. Estimating the cost
of shared risks is not a trivial exercise, particularly
when it comes to valuing natural capital. As a result,
performance criteria for investment contracts and
loans that take natural capital—and disaster risk
considerations—into account have yet to be identified (Cambridge Programme for Sustainable Leadership, 2011b). Recent initiatives are now addressing this gap (TEEB, 2010) although there is still a
need to link the real costs of externalities, such as
environmental pollution or destruction of natural
capital, to the cost of increased shared disaster risk.
Universal ownership of disaster risks
Other concepts such as ‘universal ownership’ have
the potential to encourage risk-aware investing by
large institutional investors, such as pension funds
and sovereign wealth funds. Given that these funds
have a fiduciary responsibility to their beneficiaries
for prudence and to provide sustainable long-term
244

Chapter 16

The effectiveness of universal ownership will depend on overcoming information asymmetry, in
which providers of investment opportunity know
more than investors and control the information of
those whose money they manage. Although fund
managers may have fiduciary responsibility for
prudence, this will be reinforced if beneficiaries actively encourage investments that do not lead to
increasing disaster risk.
Given the volume of capital under the management
of large pension and sovereign wealth funds, the effective application of the principal of universal ownership could provide a major incentive for businesses to manage their disaster risks more effectively
and to ensure that their investments are risk-neutral. Stronger emphasis and direction of asset owners to their managers to integrate disaster risks into
their investment strategies across all asset classes
could generate significant change (IIGCC et al., 2010).

16.6

The business of 			
managing disaster risks

The size of the market for disaster risk reduction
is potentially huge. The World Bank, for example,
estimates that climate change adaptation will require investments of US$75–US$100 billion annually between 2010 and 2050 (World Bank,
2010). The costs of corrective disaster risk management may be similar. But in reality, the market is much greater. If all the US$1.9 trillion of

FDI foreseen for 2014 were disaster-risk sensitive, this would represent an enormous business
opportunity. And FDI is only a small proportion
of total investment in produced, natural and intangible capital.
Disaster risk management as a business sector
Many businesses now see disaster risk management
as both an opportunity and a key sector for development. Among companies polled by the Economist
Intelligence Unit, 63 percent saw opportunities to
generate value from disaster risk reduction (for example, developing new crop-insurance products or
designing more resilient structures) and 20 percent
had already generated new revenue (UKTI, 2011).
As highlighted in this report, these opportunities include the development of applications to provide
risk estimates and information and platforms for
corporate risk management. They will also increasingly embrace the design of infrastructure and
buildings, of ecosystem approaches to disaster risk
management, and the provision of advice and technical assistance to the public sector.
But the scope is not restricted to those activities
explicitly labelled disaster risk management. A
large and growing number of business initiatives
are unfolding in all regions. They are creating value
from the sustainable management of natural capital and the environment, from reducing energy
consumption and investing in renewable energy
and from involving and benefiting local communities and households.
Although many of these initiatives contribute to climate change mitigation and adaptation, environmental sustainability and increasing local incomes
and employment, some already generate co-benefits vis-à-vis reduced disaster risk. The green building movement is a good example of a new business
area that generates benefits in all these domains.
The vast scope of these initiatives not only includes
businesses but designersv and others that stimulate
business innovation.

Many of these initiatives are now being driven under
the sustainability agenda of businesses rather than
through the risk management agenda. However, to
the extent that they address underlying drivers of disaster risk—such as declining ecosystem services
and badly planned and managed urban development—they will also have a major impact on the future of disaster risk. They often reflect a change of
core values in a new generation of professionals entering business, which are more likely to embrace
concepts such as sustainability and equity more
than their peers of previous generations. But they
also recognise that change requires investment and
investment can mean business opportunity.
Businesses investing in these initiatives often recognise that the creation of shared value rather than
shared risk is essential for longer-term business resilience, competitiveness and sustainability, while
presenting immediate opportunities to generate
revenue and new business opportunities.
Certification and standards
The development of disaster risk management as a
business sector that creates shared value will be
stimulated by the introduction or adoption of certification or similar types of ‘seals of approval’ (Johanesson et al., 2013; FM Global, 2010; Mahon et al.,
2012). This may include the development of international standards, such as ISO, but also voluntary
industry sector-specific certification programmes.
Certification programmes already exist in a number
of sectors, for example, in sustainable tourism and
forestry and in energy-efficient building. At present,
these programmes rarely make explicit mention of
disaster risk management, though reducing disaster
risks may be an important co-benefit. For example,
certification of sustainable urban development can
be adapted to include assessment of drainage and
run-off capacity, flood risk and heat absorption.
The benefits of certification are that businesses investing is hazard-resistant building or infrastructure,
for example, would probably see higher growth and
245

returns than those that do not, as certification is increasingly recognised and valued by consumers.
This would provide a tangible incentive for businesses to invest in a way that reduces rather than
creates shared disaster risks.

Notes
i	

PwC and Willis Re., for example.

ii	 The UNCTAD report refers to developing countries, which are
low and middle-income countries.
iii	 https://www.understandrisk.org.
iv	 WEF competitiveness index; UN HABITAT urban prosperity index
and UNCTAD FDI attractiveness index.

16.7

	
Epilogue

This report has made the business case for disaster
risk reduction. The factoring of disaster risk considerations into business investment decisions is critical to achieve more resilient, competitive and sustainable economies and societies. And creating
shared value through investing in disaster risk reduction can itself be a huge business opportunity.
Perhaps the most important achievement of the
HFA is an enhanced global understanding of the
principal pillars of disaster risk management, particularly among national and local governments
and civil society. This now has to mature into a real
understanding of disasters not as exogenous threats
to an otherwise functioning economic and social
system, but as a material expression of serious fissures in our approach to economic growth and development.
This report highlights that unless this understanding
is now integrated into business investment, the possibility that the HFA goal will be achieved is remote.
The future of disaster risk hinges on the extent to
which business embraces disaster risk reduction.
As we now approach 2015, international efforts are
intensifying to formulate a new framework for disaster risk reduction: HFA2. Ensuring that the business
case for disaster risk reduction is explicitly included
in that framework will provide a critical incentive for
the constructive engagement by business, on which
future resilience, competitiveness and sustainability
depend.

246

Chapter 16

v	 http://inhabitat.com/how-americas-infrastructure-can-bestrengthened-against-future-natural-disasters/3/,
http://www.
worldchanging.com/cities/, http://www.ecogeek.org/, http://greenopolis.com/.

Glossary
GAR13 uses an expanded set of terms and definitions building on those included in GAR09 and
GAR11.
Disaster risk is considered to be a function of hazard, exposure and vulnerability. Disaster risk is
normally expressed as the probability of loss of life,
injury or destroyed or damaged capital stock in a
given period of time. Generic definitions of these
and other terms are available in the UNISDR
Glossary.i The way these terms are used in GAR13 is
explained below.
GAR11 uses the term physical (rather than natural) hazard to refer to hazardous phenomena such
as floods, storms, droughts and earthquakes. Processes such as urbanization, environmental degradation and climate change shape and configure
hazards; therefore, it is becoming increasingly difficult to disentangle their natural and human attributes. Major hazard is used to refer to global or
regionally important hazards such as earthquakes,
tsunamis, flooding in large river basins and tropical
cyclones. Localized hazard is used to refer to
smaller-scale hazards such as flash or surface water flooding, fires, storms and landslides, which
tend to affect particular localities. Exposure is
used to refer to the location and number of people,
factories, offices or other business assets in hazard-prone areas. Vulnerability is used to refer to
the degree of susceptibility of these assets to suffer damage and loss, for example, due to inadequate design and construction, lack of maintenance, unsafe and precarious living conditions,
lack of access to emergency services etc. Resilience is used to refer to the capacity of systems
(ranging from national, local or household economies to businesses and their supply chains) to absorb or buffer losses, and recover.

ccxlviii

Glossary

Extensive risk is used to describe the risk of lowseverity, high-frequency disasters, mainly but not
exclusively associated with highly localized hazards. Intensive risk is used to describe the risk of
high-severity, mid to low-frequency disasters,
mainly associated with major hazards. Emerging
risk is used to describe the risk of extremely lowprobability disasters associated with new patterns
of hazard and vulnerability. Geomagnetic storms,
for example, have always occurred, but the associated risks are now magnified by the growing dependence of modern societies on vulnerable energy and telecommunications networks. Underlying
risk drivers are development-related processes
such as badly planned and managed urban and regional development, environmental degradation,
poverty, climate change and weak governance,
which shape risk patterns and trends.
In this report, data on direct disaster losses refer to
damage to human lives, buildings, infrastructure
and natural resources. Direct disaster losses to business refer to the damages to factories, offices,
equipment and stocks. Indirect disaster losses are
declines in business output or revenue incurred owing to business interruption, as a consequence of
direct losses or owing to impacts on a business’
supply chain. Wider impacts refer to, for example,
loss of market share or damage to a business reputation as clients take their business to competitors,
skilled workers move to other employers and relationships with suppliers are severed. Macroeconomic effects can be felt as a consequence of all
three types of losses and impacts and can in turn
negatively affect business performance through a
constrained enabling business environment.
Shared risks or costs refer to risks that are transferred in time or space to other sectors or to the
wider economy. They can also be referred to as externalised social and environmental costs.

The risk assessment for GAR13 uses a probabilistic approach. Probability is defined as the likelihood of an event occurring compared to all the
possible events that might occur. The exceedance
probability is the likelihood of one event of a given
magnitude occurring or being exceeded within a
defined time span. Frequency is the expected
number of times that a particular event occurs in a
defined time span. Return period is the average
frequency with which a particular event is expected to occur. It is usually expressed in years, such as
1 in X number of years. This does not mean that an
event will occur once every X numbers of years, but
is another way of expressing the exceedance probability: a 1 in 200 years event has a chance of 0.5
percent to occur or be exceeded every year.
Annual average loss (AAL) is the estimated average loss per year over a long time period considering the range of loss scenarios relating to different
return periods. The probable maximum loss
(PML) is the maximum loss that could be expected
for a given return period, for example of 250 years.

quakes and tropical cyclones with urban produced
capital and gross fixed capital formation. In the
case of tsunamis, relative disaster risk is estimated
using the proportion of urban produced capital exposed to tsunamis.
Disaster risk reduction (DRR) describes the policy objective of reducing risk. Disaster risk management (DRM) describes the actions that aim to
achieve this objective. Actions include prospective risk management, such as better planning,
designed to avoid the construction of new risks;
corrective risk management, designed to address pre-existing risks; compensatory risk management, such as insurance that shares and
spreads risks; and disaster management measures such as business continuity planning, preparedness and response. Risk governance is used
to describe how national or local governments
work with business, civil society and other actors
to organize DRM, including, for example, through
institutional arrangements, legislation, policies
and strategy.

Capital stock is made up of produced capital,
natural capital and intangible capital.ii
Produced capital is the total value of machinery,
equipment, structures (including infrastructure)
and urban land. GAR 13 analyses urban produced
capital, defined as the produced capital in urban
areas with more than 2,000 inhabitants. Exposed
produced capital refers to the urban produced
capital stock that is exposed to natural hazards.
Natural capital is the total value of existing nonrenewable resources (including oil, natural gas,
coal and mineral resources) as well as cropland,
pastureland, forests and protected areas. Intangible capital includes values such as human capital,
institutional infrastructure and social capital.

i	 See UNISDR, 2009. Terminology on Disaster Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR.
ii	 Based on a definition developed by the World Bank to estimate the wealth accumulated historically in a country (World Bank,
2010a).

Gross fixed capital formation is the total value of
capital investment by the private and public sectors in a given year. In GAR13, relative disaster risk
is estimated by comparing the AAL for earthccxlix

Acknowledgements
Advisory Board
Chair
Margareta Wahlström, Special Representative of
the Secretary-General for Disaster Risk Reduction
Members
Wadid Erian, Head of Land Resource Studies, The
Arab Center for the Study of Arid Zones and Dry
Lands, Damascus, Syrian Arab Republic
Virginia Garcia Acosta, Director, Centre for Research and Advanced Studies in Social Anthropology, CIESAS, Mexico DF, Mexico
Michelle Gyles-McDonnough, United Nations Resident Coordinator for the Eastern Caribbean,
Bridgetown, Barbados
John Holmes, Director, Ditchley Foundation, Ditchley, United Kingdom.
Michel Jarraud, Secretary General, World Meteorological Organization, Geneva, Switzerland
Randolph Kent, Director, Humanitarian Futures
Programme, King’s College, London, United Kingdom
Allan Lavell, Coordinator, Programme for Environmental and Disaster Risk, Latin America Social Science Faculty (FLACSO), San Jose, Costa Rica
Patrick Liedke, Former Secretary General, the Geneva Association for Risk and Insurance Economics,
Switzerland
Ibrahim Osman, Former Deputy Secretary-General, International Federation of Red Cross and Red
Crescent Societies, Geneva, Switzerland
Aromar Revi, Director, Indian Institute for Human
Settlements, New Delhi, India
Johan Schaar, Co-Director, Vulnerability and Adaptation Initiative, World Resources Institute, Washington DC, USA
Youba Sokona, Coordinator, African Climate Policy
Centre, United Nations Economic Commission for
Africa, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Dennis Wenger, Programme Director, Element
ccl

Acknowledgements

1638, National Science Foundation, Arlington, USA
Sandra Wu, Chief Executive Officer, Kokusai Kogyu
Corporation, Japan
Coordinating Lead Authors
Andrew Maskrey and Bina Desai, United Nations
Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNISDR), Geneva,
Switzerland
GAR project team at UNISDR
Julio Serje, national disaster loss data and analysis,
Annex 2, on-line tools; Marc Gordon, HFA Monitoring, disaster risk reduction investment tracking, Annex 3; Kazuko Ishigaki, economic analysis and research; Manuela Di Mauro, global risk analysis,
Annex 1; Sylvain Ponserre, geospatial data visualisation and on-line products; Frederic Delpech, editorial assistance, production coordination and administrative support; Vicente Anzellini, research
assistance, references and case studies; Vincent
Fung: case studies and online products.
Collaborating Institutions
The following institutions and individuals coordinated, developed and supported research, studies,
workshops and peer reviews for GAR13:
Arab Centre for the Study of Arid Zones and Dry
Lands – ACSAD, Syria (Wadid Erian); Blended Capital Group, Switzerland (Paul Clements-Hunt); CIMA
Foundation, Italy (Roberto Rudari); CIMNE and Associates (ITEC S.A.S. INGENIAR LTDA. EAI S.A.),
Colombia and Spain (Omar Dario Cardona); Centro
Internacional de Metodos Numericos en Ingenieria – CIMNE and Associates, Universitat Politecnica de Catalunya (Alex Barbat); Corporacion
OSSO, Colombia, (Andres Velasquez, Cristina Rosales); DARA International, Spain (Nicolai Steen);
Earth Literacy Programme, Japan (Shin’ichi Takemura); Famine Early Warning Systems Network –

FEWSNET, USA (Jim Verdin and Greg Husak); the
Geneva Association for Risk and Insurance Economics, Switzerland (Walter Stahel, Meghan Orie);
Geoscience Australia, Australia (John Schneider);
Global Earthquake Model – GEM, Italy (Rui Pinho);
Global Fire Monitoring Centre, Germany (Johann
Goldhammer); Government of Mexico, Sistema
Nacional de Proteccion Civil, Mexico (Laura Gurza
Jaidar); Humanitarian Futures Programme, United Kingdom (Randolph Kent); Indian Institute for
Human Settlements – IIHS, India (Aromar Revi); Integrated Research on Disaster Reduction – IRDR,
China (Jane Rovins); International Institute for
Applied Systems Analysis –IIASA, Austria (Reinhard Mechler, Stefan Hochrainer): Ipsos Mori, United Kingdom ( Laura Cunningham); Latin America
and Caribbean Center, Florida International University - FIU, USA (Juan Pablo Sarmiento); Lincoln
University, New Zealand (Roche Mahon); Norwegian Geotechnical Institute- NGI, Norway (Farrokh
Nadim); Price Waterhouse Coopers – PwC, Switzerland and United Kingdom (Oz Ozturk and Madiha
Bakhir); Risk Management Solutions – RMS, London (Robert Muir-Wood); Save the Children International, Kenya (Johara Bellali); University College
London, Development Planning Unit, United
Kingdom (Cassidy Johnson); University of Sao
Paolo, Brazil (Marcos Fava Neves), United Nations
Development Programme, USA (Angeles Arenas
and Chiara Melluchi); United Nations Educational
Scientific and Cultural Organization – UNESCO,
France (Alexandros Makarigakis), United Nations
Environment Programme - UNEP-GRID, Switzerland (Pascal Peduzzi); Willis Research Network,
London (Rowan Douglas); World Agency for Planetary Monitoring and Earthquake Risk Reduction
– WAPMERR, Switzerland (Max Wyss); World Bank,
USA (Francis Ghesquiere); World Meteorological
Organisation – WMO, Switzerland (Maryam Golnaraghi, Robert Stefanski).
Contributors and Authors
Yoganath Adikari (ICHARM); Mairun Alves Pinto (University of Sao Paulo); Dilanthi Amaratunga (University of Salford); Angeles Arenas (UNDP); Craig Arthur

(Geoscience Australia); Beatriz Asensio (DARA International); Ali Asgary (York University); Funda Atun
(Polytechnic University of Milan); Madiha Bakir
(PwC); Haider Awad, (ACSAD); Murat Balamir (Middle
East Technical University); Alex Barbat (CIMNE and
Associates); Abdul Bashir (Instituto de Altos Estudios, Corporacion OSSO); Adele Bear-Crozier (Geoscience Australia); Susanne Becken (Lincoln University); Johara Bellali (Save the Children International);
Gabriel Bernal (CIMNE and Associates); Karen Bernard (UNDP); Sanjaya Bhatia (International Recovery
Platform); Guido Biondi (CIMA Foundation); Adriana
Bonilla (Latin American Faculty of Social Sciences –
FLACSO); Timothy Boothman (PwC); Alice Brenes
(Universidad Nacional de Costa Rica); Octavia de
Cadiz (Corporacion OSSO); Belén Camacho (DARA
International); Alice Caravani (Overseas Development Institute - ODI); Omar Dario Cardona (CIMNE
and Associates); Ann Carpenter (Georgia Institute of
Technology); Carlos Castillo (PwC); José M. Cepeda
(NGI); Martha-Liliana Carreño (CIMNE and Associates); PG Dhar Chakrabarti; Alexandre Cherix (PwC);
Donna Childs (Prisere LLC); Paul Clements-Hunt
(The Blended Capital Group); Samantha Cook (Secretariat of the Pacific Community – SPC); Jimena
Cuevas (CIESAS); Andrea DeBono (UNEP-GRID); Domenico del Re (PwC); Patrick Dahmen (PwC); Herry
Darwanto; Nigel Davis (Willis Re); Fabio Delogu (CIMA
Foundation); Manuel Díaz (Ministry of Environment
and Natural Resources of El Salvador); Daniel Dowling (PwC); Mark Edwards (Geoscience Australia); Wadid Erian (ACSAD); Miguel Esteban (Waseda University); Marisol Estrella (UNEP); Marcos Fava Neves
(University of Sao Paulo); Aurélien Feix (PwC); Almudena Fernandez (UNDP); Vanessa Foo (Economist Intelligence Unit); Urbano Fra Paleo (University
of Santiago de Compostela); Chris Funk (FEWS NET);
Simone Gabellani (CIMA Foundation); Matthias Garschagen (United Nations University); Ebru Gencer
(Columbia University); Marci Gerulius-Darcy (Metropolitan State University and Augsburg College) Karimi Gitonga (Save the Children International); Sylfest
Glimsdal (NGI); Johann Goldhammer (GFMC); Diana
M. González (CIMNE and Associates); Peter Gubbels
(Groundswell International, Ghana); Fadi Hamdan
ccli

(Disaster Risk Management Centre, Lebanon); Guoyi
Han (Stockholm Environment Institute); Masahiko
Haraguchi (Columbia University); Carl B. Harbitz
(NGI); Christian Herold (UNEP-GRID); Celine Herweijer (PwC); Harvey Hill (Agriculture and Agri-Food
Canada, Government of Canada); Gabriela Hoberman (FIU); Stefan Hochrainer (IIASA); Rubem Hofliger (Government of Mexico); Solomon M. Hsiang
(Princeton University); Alvaro I. Hurtado (CIMNE and
Associates); Greg Husak (FEWSNET); Sanaa Ibrahim
(ACSAD), Bingu Ingirige (University of Salford); Oscar
Ishizawa (World Bank); Michel Jaboyedoff (University of Lausanne); Garima Jain (IIHS, India); Harikishan
Jayanthi (FEWSNET); Rohit Jigyasu (IIHS); Nayibe
Jimenez (Corporacion OSSO); Amir S. Jina (Columbia University); Ase Johannessen (Stockholm Environment Institute); Cassidy Johnson (University College London); David Johnston (Institute for
Geological and Nuclear Sciences, Massey University,
New Zealand); Susan Rachel Jose; Irene Karani (LTS
Africa, Kenya); Bassem Katlan (ACSAD); Jan Kellett;
Randolph Kent (Humanitarian Futures Programme,
Kings College); Hanne Louise Knaepen (Kyoto University); Jeremie Kreitz (Economist Intelligence
Unit); Oded Kunik (Syngenta, Kenya); Upmanu Lall
(Columbia University); Joanne Linnerooth-Bayer
(IIASA); Finn Løvholt (NGI); Roché Mahon (Lincoln
University); Ana Maria Majano (INCAE Business
School, Costa Rica); Tariq Maqsood (Geoscience
Australia); Mabel-Cristina Marulanda (CIMNE and Associates); Reinhard Mechler (IIASA), Chiara Melluchi
(UNDP); Ouejdane Mejri (Polytechnic University of
Milan); Scira Menoni (Polytechnic University of Milan); Takahito Mikami (Waseda University); Kazu Miyamura (PwC); Marcus Moench (ISET, Nepal);
Giovanni Molina (Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of El Salvador); Miguel Mora (CIMNE
and Associates); Farrok Nadim (NGI, Norway); Tadashi Nakasu (ICHARM); Tristan Nguyen (WHL Graduate School of Business and Economics); Bettina
Ngweno (Aga Khan University, Kenya); Toshio Okazumi (ICHARM); Juan C. Olaya (CIMNE and Associates); Onesmo oleMoiYoi (Nairobi University); Richard Olson (FIU); Mario Ordaz (UNAM CIMNE advisor);
Meghan Orie (The Geneva Association for Risk and
cclii

Acknowledgements

Insurance Economics); Jose Carlos Orihuela (Pontificia Universidad Católica del Perú); Bassem Ouldbedy (ACSAD), Oz Ozturk (PwC); Belén Paley (DARA
International); Jyotiraj Patra (Concern Worldwide);
Marco Pagani (GEM); Abhilash Panda (UNISDR); Diego Pedreros (FEWS NET); Pascal Peduzzi (UNEPGRID and University of Geneva); Giulia Pesaro (Polytechnic University of Milan); Georg Pflug (IIASA); Rui
Pinho (GEM, Italy); Jeremy Pittman; Soledad Posada
(DARA International); Juan Pujadas (PwC); Byron
Quan Luna (NGI); Fernando Ramirez (Coporacion
OSSO); Raj Rana (The Wolfgroup); Fabrice Renaud
(United Nations University); Hamish Rennie (Lincoln
University); Joseph Rizzo (PwC); Cristina Rosales
(Corporacion OSSO); Arno Rosemarin (Stockholm
Environment Institute); Philippe Rosset (WAPMERR);
Laura Rossello (CIMA Foundation); James Rowland
(FEWS NET); Roberto Rudari (CIMA Foundation); Keiko Saito (World Bank); Mario Salgado (CIMNE and
Associates); Juan Pablo Sarmiento (FIU); John
Schneider
(Geoscience
Australia);
Barbara
Schwendtner (NGI); Alpesh Shah (PwC); Shri K. Singh
(UNAM CIMNE advisor); Francesco Silvestro (CIMA
Foundation); Walter Stahel (The Geneva Association
for Risk and Insurance Economics); Nicolai Steen
(DARA International); Thor Axel Stenström (Stockholm Environment Institute); Jan Sturesson (PwC);
Karen Sudmeier-Rieux (University of Lausanne);
Megumi Sugimoto (ICHARM,); Asa Gerger Swartling
(Stockholm Environment Institute); Hiroshi Tagaki
(Tokyo Institute of Technology); Tran Thu Tam (Ho
Chi Minh City University of Technology); Kannika
Thampanishvong (Thailand Development Research
Institute); Nguyen Danh Thao (Ho Chi Minh City University of Technology); Andrew Thurley (PwC); Stavros Tolis (WAPMERR); Peeranan Towashiraporn
(Asian Disaster Preparedness Centre); Stefania Traverso (CIMA Foundation); Andres Velasquez (Corporacion OSSO); César Velasquez (CIMNE and Associates); James Verdin (FEWS NET); Claudia P. Villegas
(CIMNE and Associates); Gregor Vulturius (Stockholm Environment Institute); Scott Williams (PwC);
Keith Williges (IIASA); Neville Wright; Max Wyss (WAPMERR); Lilian Yamamoto (United Nations University);
Luis Yamin (CIMNE and Associates), Ebrahim Zaghti-

ty (ACSAD), Othon Zevallos (Empresa de Aguas y Alcantarillado de Quito, Ecuador), Paola Zuddas (University of Cagliari, Italy), Daniela Zuloaga (CIMNE and
Associates).
2011 – 2013 HFA Progress Review
National progress reports as of 25 March 2013 were
submitted by the governments of:
Anguilla, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, British Virgin Islands, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Canada,
Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Cook Islands,
Croatia, Czech Republic, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France,
Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya,
Kiribati, Lebanon, Lesotho, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia (Fed. States of), Monaco, Morocco,
Myanmar, Nauru, Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger,
Niue, Norway, Pakistan, Palau, Palestine (State of),
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Romania, Rwanda, Saint
Kitts and Nevis, Samoa, Senegal, Serbia, Slovenia,
Solomon Islands, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland,
Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Turkey, Turks
and Caicos Islands, Tuvalu, Uganda, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United
Republic of Tanzania, United States of America,
Uruguay and Vanuatu.
The HFA Review Process was supported by UNISDR
Regional Offices:
•	 	Africa (Pedro Basabe, Youcef Ait-Chellouche and
Rhea Katsanakis);
•	 Americas (Ricardo Mena, Jennifer Guralnick,
Raul Salazar and Sandra Amlang);
•	 Arab States (Amjad Abbashar, Luna AbuSwaireh, Lars Bernd and Ragy Saro);
•	 Asia and Pacific (Jerry Velasquez, Madhavi Aryabandu, Hang Thi Thanh Pham, Sujit Mohanty,
Glenn Dolcemascolo, Yongkyun Kim, Laura Niskanen and Akapusi Tuifagalele); and
•	 Europe and Central Asia (Paola Albrito, Stefanie

Dannenmann, Abdurahim Muhidov and Goulsara Pulatova).
And by the UNISDR Information Management Unit
(Craig Duncan, Joel Margate, Revati Mani Badola
and John Ravi Hayag).
National disaster loss data
Bolivia: Vice Ministerio de la Defensa Civil - VIDECI
(Carlos Mariaca Ceballos, Omar Pedro Velazco);
Chile: Universidad de Chile (Alejandro León, Carolina Clerc); Colombia: Corporación OSSO ( Nayibe
Jimenez, Cristina Rosales, Yuliana Diaz); Costa Rica:
Programa Integral de Gestión de Riesgos de Desastres de la Universidad Nacional - PRIGD UNA (Alice
Brenes Maykall, David Smith); Djibouti: Centre
d’Études et de Recherches de Djibouti - CERD (Samatar Abdi Osman, Ahmed Madar); Ecuador: Secretaría Nacional de Gestión de Riesgos - SNGR (Dalton
Andrade Rodríguez); El Salvador: Dirección General
del Observatorio Nacional -DGOA, del Ministerio del
Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales - MARN (Ivonne Jaimes, Tere Isabel Flores); Ethiopia: Ministry of
Agriculture and World Food Programme – WFP (Animesh Kumar, Workneh Hundessa, Edget Tilahun,
Getnet Kebede); Guatemala: La Red de Estudios
Sociales en Prevención de Desastres - LA RED (Gisela Gellert); Guyana: Civil Defence Commission - CDC
(Kester Craig, Sherwin Felicien, Salita Pooran); Honduras: Instituto Hondureño de Ciencias de la Tierra
- IHCIT de la Universidad Nacional Autónoma de
Honduras - UNAH (Jessica Velásquez, Carmen María
Rodríguez, Roberto Antonio Ortiz Nelson Sevilla,
Oscar Elvir); Indonesia: Indonesian National Board
for Disaster Management BNPB (Ridwan Yunus); Islamic Republic of Iran: Ministry of Interior and
UNDP (Amin Shamseddini, Victoria Kianpour); Jamaica: Office for Disaster Preparedness and Emergency Managament – ODPEM (Leiska Powell, Anna
Tucker, Rashida Green, Sherese Gentles, Sashekia
Powell, Fredene Wilson); Jordan: Civil Protection
(Waleed Al-So’ub); Kenya: National Disaster Operations Center (Rhea Katsanakis, Oliver Madara, Isabel
Njihia, Faith Langat); Laos: National Disaster Management Organization - NDMO, Laos (Sisomvang
ccliii

Vilayphong, Bouasy Thammasack, Thitiphon Sinsupan, Hang Thi Thanh Pham, Thanongdeth Insisiengmay, Somvath); Lebanon: Office of the Prime Minister and UNDP (Nathalie Zaarour, Lama Tabbara,
Bilal El-Ghali); Mali: Protection Civil du Mali (Mamadou Traore, Diawoye Konte, Aboudra Koungoulba,
Savane Foulematou SY); Mexico: La Red de Estudios Sociales en Prevención de Desastres - LA RED
(Elizabeth Mansilla); Mozambique: Instituto Nacional de Gestão de Calamidades -INGC and UNDP
(Dulce Chilundo, Eunice Mucache, Antonio Queface);
Nepal: National Society for Earthquake Technology
–NSET (Amod Dixit, Gopi Bashal); Nicaragua: Sistema Nacional para la Prevención, Mitigación y Atención de Desastres - SINAPRED (Ana Isabel Izaguirre,
Mercedes Martínez, Gisela Guevara, Carlos Olivares,
Noé Ubau, Ernesto González); Orissa: State Disaster
Management Authority (Kalika Mohapatra, Ambika
Prasad); Pacific Islands: SPC/SOPAC (Jutta May, Nicole Daniels, Litea Biukoto); Panamá: Sistema Nacional de Protección Civil – SINAPROC (Eric Reyes,
Kenat Saarim Camaño Guerra); Perú: Centro de Estudios de Prevención de Desastres - PREDES (José
Sato Onuma, Alfonso Diaz Calero, Julio Meneses
Bautista, Yeselín Díaz Toribio, Ingrid Azaña Saldaña);
Sri Lanka: Ministry of Disaster Managemen ( Dinesh
Rajapaksha); Syrian Arab Republic: Ministry of Local Administration (Kinda Muhana, Claude Amer);
Timor Leste National Disaster Operation Centre –
NDOC, Ministry of Social Solidarity (Lourenco
Cosme Xavier, Maarten Visser); Uganda: Office of
the Prime Minister, Department of Disaster Preparedness and Management (Samuel Akera, Charles
Odok); Uruguay: Sistema Nacional de Emergencias
de la Presidencia de la República – SINAE (Virginia
Fernandez, Sabrina Pose, Soledad Camacho, Ana
Maria Games, Pablo Capurro); Venezuela: Dirección
Nacional de Protección Civil y Administración de
Desastres – DNPCAD (Jairo Sanchez, José Scire);
Vietnam: Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development and UNDP (Ian Wilderspin, Miguel Coulier,
Oanh Luong Nhu, Nguyen Thi Thu Thuy); Yemen:
Ministry of Environment (Majed Alrefai).

ccliv

Acknowledgements

The updating and compilation of disaster loss data
was coordinated in Latin America by Raul Salazar
and Ricardo Mena (UNISDR LAC) in close collaboration with Mauricio Bautista, Jhon Henry Caicedo,
Maria Isabel Cardona, Natalia Diaz, Nayibe Jimenez,
Cristina Rosales, Alexander Torres and Andres Velasquez (Corporacion OSSO, Colombia); in Asia and Africa by Julio Serje (UNISDR) in collaboration with
Luna Abu-Swaireh (UNISDR Arab States) and Rhea
Katsanakis (UNISDR Africa); in Asia Sanny Jegillos
and Rajesh Sharma (UNDP, Regional Centre Bangkok) and in the Pacific Jutta May and Nicole Daniels
(SPC/SOPAC).
Peer reviewers
Scientific peer review of the global hazard models
were coordinated by WMO (drought, flood and tropical cyclone, led by Maryam Golnaraghi) and UNESCO (earthquake, tsunami and landslides, led by Alexandros Makarigakis and coordinated by Kristine
Tovmasyan).
Reviewers: Irasema Alcantara-Ayal (UNAM, Mexico),
Zeljiko Arbanas (University of Rijeka, Croatia) Jörn
Behrens (Alfred Wegener Institute for Polar and Marine Research, Germany), Antônio Cardoso Neto
(Agência Nacional de Aguas (ANA), Brazil), Timothy
A. Cohn (U.S. Geological Survey), Johannes Cullmann (Federal Institute of Hydrology, Germany),
Russel Elesberry (Naval Postgraduate School, USA),
Mihail Garevski (Institute of Earthquake Engineering
and Engineering Seismology, Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia), Mohsen Ghafory-Ashtiany (International Institute of Earthquake Engineering and
Seismology, Iran), Wolfgang Grabs (WMO), Kazuyoshi Kudo (Nihon University, Japan), Koji Kuroiwa
(WMO), Brad Garanganga (SADC, Botswana), Bruce
Harper (GHD, Australia), Rami Hofstetter (Seismology Division Geophysical Institute of Israel), Christopher Oludhe (University of Nairobi, Kenya), Kyoji
Sassa (University of Kyoto, Japan), Kenji Satake
(University of Tokyo, Japan), Yuri Simonov (State Hydrological Institute, Russia), Robert Stefanski (WMO),
Alexander Strom (Geodynamics Research Center,
Russia), Stefano Tinti (University of Bologna, Italy),

Fawu Wang (Graduate School of Shimane University, Japan), Donald A. Wilhite, (University of Nebraska, USA), Liu Zhiyu (Bureau of Hydrology, Ministry of
Water Resources of China). Additional reviews of the
global risk modelling were provided by Geoscience
Australia (John Schneider, Nick Horspool, Tariq
Maqsood and Andrew Jones) and by Risk Management Solutions (Robert Muir-Wood).
Review comments on the Zero Order Draft were received from: Yoshiko Abe (Kokusai Kogyo Co. Ltd.,
Japan); Irasema Alcantara-Ayala (Unversidad
Naciónal Autonoma de México); Dilanthi Amaratunga (University of Salford, United Kingdom); Adel
Bear-Crozier (GeoSciences Australia); Djillali Benouar (University of Bab Ezzouar , Algeria); Charlotte
Benson (Asian Development Bank); David Bresch
(Swiss Re, Switzerland); Sálvano Briceño (IRDR);
Christopher Burton (Global Earthquake Model, Italy); Chen Liu Shaw (Academia Sinica, Taiwan); Susan
Cutter (University of South Carolina, USA); Glenn
Dolcemascolo (UNISDR); Rowan Douglas (Willis Re);
Elizabeth Ferris (Brookings Institution); Vincent Fung
(UNISDR); Dirk Glaesser (UNWTO); Peter Gubbels
(Groundswell International); Stephane Hallegatte
(World Bank); Debbie Hillier (Oxfam, United Kingdom); Demetrio Innocenti (UNISDR); Nicole Keller
(Global Earthquake Model, Italy); Kaushal Keraminiyage (University of Salford); Daniel Kull (World Bank);
Abinash Lakhar (Indian Institute for Human Settlements, India); Bernard Laporte (AXA Matrix Risk
Consultants); Allan Lavell (FLACSO); Elizabeth Longworth (UNISDR); Darío Luna Plá (Government of
Mexico); Tariq Maqsood (GeoSciences Australia); David Maréchal (Allianz Re); Neil McFarlane (UNISDR);
Matthew McKinnon (DARA International); James Mc
Lean (Kokusai Kogyo Co. , Ldt., Japan); Calvin Miller
(FAO); Sujit Mohanty (UNISDR); Robert Muir-Wood
(RMS, United Kingdom); Lee Müller (Swiss Re, Switzerland); Pablo Munoz (IHDP, United Nations University); Virginia Murray (IRDR); Jaroslav Mysiak (FEEM);
Bettina Ngweno (Aga Khan University, Kenya); Richard Olson (Florida International University, USA);
Aris Papadopoulos (Titan America); Dennis Parker
(Flood Hazard Research Centre, United Kingdom);

Chaminda Pathirage (Salford University, United
Kingdom); Patrick Pigeon (Université Savoie); Sally
Priest (Flood Hazard Research Centre, United Kingdom) Alasdair Ross (Economist Intelligence Unit);
Jane Rovins (IRDR); Tarek Sadek (ESCWA, Lebanon);
Paul Samuels (HR Wallingford Ltd., United Kingdom); David Sarabacha (Deloitte); Rachel Scott
(OECD); Alanna Simpson (World Bank); David A.
Smith Wiltshire (National University of Costa Rica);
Zuzana Stanton-Gedde (World Bank); Swenja Surminski (London School of Economics, United Kingdom); Régis Thepot (Seine Grands Lacs, Etablissement Public Territorial de Bassin); Anna Timonina
(IIASA, Austria); John Tobin (Crédit Suisse, Switzerland); German Velasquez (UNISDR); Eva Wuttge
(GIZ).
Special acknowledgement for advice received from:
Yvo de Boer (KPMG) and Professor John Urry (Lancaster University).
Design Concept
Earth Literacy Program (NPO)
Design and production (printed GAR)
Design concept, cover and style guide: Mitsuhiro
Miyazaki and Masashi Tomura (AXIS), Shin’ichi Takemura (Earth Literacy Programme – ELP), Taku Satoh
(Taku Satoh Design Office); Inverted umbrella
symbol: Taku Satoh and Shin’ichi Takemura, inspired by the work of Makoto Murase and the Institute on Sky Water Harvesting; Design realisation:
Mitsuhiro Miyazaki and Masashi Tomura (AXIS),
Shin’ichi Takemura (ELP); Layout: Takae Ooka;
Maps and graphs: Manuela di Mauro, Sylvain Ponserre and Julio Serje (UNISDR), David Lazarus (Mtn.
Design) and Stephane Kluser (UNDP); Editing: Martha Bonilla; Printing: Imprimerie Nouvelle Gonnet;
Production Coordination: David d’Heilly (2dk/ELP)
and Frederic Delpech (UNISDR); Procurement: UNOPS, Bangkok.
Tangible Earth (TE) and GAR for Tablet (GfT)
TE platform design and GfT scenario development: Shin’ichi Takemura; TE systems architecture:
cclv

Takahiro Shinkai; GfT systems architecture: Jun
Nishimura; GfT scenario development: Yoshiyuki
Inaba; David d’Heilly; Production management:
Kensuke Arakawa; Case studies for GfT: Vincent
Fung, Sylvain Ponserre and Vicente Anzellini (UNISDR); GfT interface design: Takurou Okuyama, Kensuke Arakawa; International research and facilitation: David d’Heilly; General administration:
Shoko Takemura.
On-line GAR
Julio Serje, Sylvain Ponserre, Joel Margate and Andris Valums (UNISDR).
Resources
Financial resources were provided by the Governments of Australia, Japan, Norway and the United
States of America and by the European Commission
(DG ECHO and DG Development). Other in-kind resources were provided by FEWSNET, Florida International University, Geneva Association for Risk and
Insurance Economics, PricewaterhouseCoopers,
Save the Children International, UNDP and the
World Bank.

cclvi

Acknowledgements

cclvii

References
Accenture. 2011. Risk management as a source of
competitive advantage and high performance. Report on the Accenture 2011 Global Risk Management Study.
Adelekan, I. 2012. Private Sector Investment Decisions
in Building and Construction: Increasing, managing and transferring risks. Case study of Lagos, Nigeria. Case study prepared for the 2013 Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction.
Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR. http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
ADPC (Asian Disaster Prepardness Center). 2003. Disaster Management in South East Asia - an overview. Bangkok, Thailand	
African Development Bank. 	 2012. Ethiopia 2012. African Economic Outlook.
Albala-Bertrand. 1993. Political Economy of Large
Natural Disasters With Special Reference to Developing Countries. Oxford, UK: Clarendon Press.	
Albala-Bertrand. 2006. The Unlikeliness of an Economic Catastrophe: Localization & Globalization.
Working Papers 576, Queen Mary, University of
London, Department of Economics. London, UK
Albreht, T. 2009. Privatization processes in health
care in Europe: a move in the right direction, a
‘trendy’ option, or a step back? European Journal
of Public Health, Vol. 19, No. 5, 448–451. Oxford
University Press on behalf of the European Public
Health Association.
Aldersley, A. Murray, S.J. and Cornell S.E. 2011. Global and regional analysis of climate and human drivers of wildfire. School of Earth Sciences, University
of Bristol. Bristol, UK.
Alexander, E. R. 1986. Approaches to Planning: Introducing Current Planning. Theories, Concepts, and
Issues. New York, USA. Gordon and Breach Science Publishers.
Altieri, M.A. 1987. Agroecology: the scientific basis of
alternative agriculture. Boulder: Westview Press.
Ambali, A., Chirwa, P.W., Chamdimba O. and Van Zyl,
cclviii

References

W.H. 	2011. A review of Sustainable Development
of bioenergy in Africa: an outlook for the future
bioenergy industry. Sceintific Research and Essays, Vol 6 (8): 1697-1708.
Aniekwu, N. and Ozochi, C.A. 2010. Restructuring
education, training and human-resource development in the Nigerian construction industry.
Journal of Science and Technology Education Research, Vol. 1(5): 92-98.
Anseeuw, W., Boche, M., Breu, T., Giger, M., Lay, J.,
Messerli, P., and Nolte, K. K. 2012. Transnational
Land Deals for Agriculture in the Global South.
Analytical Report based on the Land Matrix Database. Number 1: April 2012.
Aon Benfield. 2011. Global Risk Management Survey
2011.	 Chicago, USA: Aon Risk Solutions.
Aon Benfield. 2012a. 2011 Thailand Floods Event Recap Report: Impact Forecasting, March 2012. http://
thoughtleadership.aonbenfield.com/Documents/	
20120314_impact_forecasting_thailand_flood_
event_recap.pdf
Aon Benfield. 2012b. Impact Forecasting: May 2012
Global Catastrophe Recap. http://thoughtleadership.aonbenfield.com/Documents/201206_if_
monthly_cat_recap_may.pdf
Aon Benfield. 2012c. Impact Forecasting: November
2012 Global Catastrophe Recap. http://thoughtleadership.aonbenfield.com/Documents/201212_if_
monthly_cat_recap_november.pdf
Aon Benfield. 2012d. Insurance-Linked Securities.
Evolving Strength 2012. Aon Benfield Securities Report. Chicago, USA: Aon Benfield Securities.
Asano, K.	2012. Rethinking a Business Continuity plan
(BCP): What Should Companies Learn from the
Great East Japan Earthquake? Nomura Research
Institute paper No. 173, May 1, 2012. Nomura Research Institute, Ltd. Japan.	
Asgary, A., Anjum, M.I. and Azimi, N. 2012. Disaster
recovery and business continuity after the 2010
flood in Pakistan: Case of small businesses. Inter-

national Journal of Disaster Risk Reduction,
2(2012): 46-56.
Atradius. 	2011. Country Report: Thailand December
2011. Atradius Country Report, December 2011.
Australian Bureau of Meteorology and CSIRO (Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization). 2011. Climate Change in the Pacific:
Scientific Assessment and New Research. Volume
1: Regional Overview. Volume 2: Country Reports.
Babb, S. 2005. The Social Consequences of Structural Adjustment. Recent Evidence and Current
Debates. Annual Review of Sociology, Vol. 31 (2005):
199-222.
Baiphethi, M.N. and Jacobs P.T. 2009. The contribution of subsistence farming to food security in
South Africa. Agrekon, Volume 48, Number 4 (December): 459-482.			
Baker, J. L. and McClain, K. 2009. Private Sector Initiatives in Slum Upgrading. Urban Papers 8, May
2009. World Bank. Washington DC, USA.	
Balamir, M. 2012. Obstacles in the Adoption of International DRR Policies: The Case of Turkey. Background Paper prepared for the 2013 Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction.
Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR. http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
Barclay, C. 2012. Planning and Flooding. House of
Commons Library. SN/SC/4100. UK Parliament.
London, UK.
Bassi, S. and Kettunen, M. 2008. Forest Fires: causes
and contributing factors in Europe. Policy Department and Scientific Policy. IP/A/ENVI/ST/2007-15.
London, UK.
Battisti, M. and Deakins, D. 2012. Business Measure
Perspective from New Zealand Small Firms: Crisis
Management and the Impact of the Canterbury
Earthquakes. New Zealand Center for Small and
Medium Enterprise Research, Massey University.
BCI (Business Continuity Institute). 2011. Business
Continuity Institute Survey Reveals the High Levels
and Deep-routed Nature of Supply Chain Failure.
http://www.thebci.org/index.php?option=com_
content&view=article&id=168&Itemid=256
Beck, U. 	1992. Risk Society: Towards a New Modernity. 	London, UK: Sage Publications.	

Becken, S., Hay, J. and Espiner, S. 2011. The risk of
climate change for tourism in the Maldives. In:
Butler, R. and Carlsen, J., (eds): Island Tourism Development. Journeys towards Sustainability. Wallingford, UK: CABI.
Bennett, O. 2012. Flood Defense. House of Commons Library. SN/SC/5755. UK Parliament. London, UK.
Berger, A., Brown, C., Kousky, C. and Zeckhauser, R.
2010. The Five Neglects: Risks Gone Amiss. In:
Kunreuther, H. And M. Unseem (eds.), Learning
from Catastrophes. Strategies for Reaction and Response. New Jersey: Wharton School Publishing:
83-99.	
Bernard, K. and Cook, S. 2012. Tourism Investment
Choices and Flood Risk: Illustrative Case Study on
Denarau Island Resort in Fiji. Background Paper
prepared for the 2013 Global Assessment Report
on Disaster Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland:
UNISDR. http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
Bhinda, N. and Martin, M. 2009. Private capital flows
to low income countries: Dealing with boom and
bust. Foreign Private Capital Capacity Building
Programme. FPC CBP Series no 2. November.
2009. Debt Relief International Ltd. London, UK
Blaikie, P., Cannon, T. Davis, I. and Wisner, B. 2004.
At Risk: Natural Hazards, People’s Vulnerability and
Disasters. London: Routledge.		
Bloomberg. 2012. Top 20 Cities with Billions at Risk
from Climate Change. Slide show by Eric Roston, 6
July 2012. http://www.bloomberg.com/slideshow/2012-07-06/top-20-cities-with-billions-at-	
risk-from-climate-change.html#slide20
Borgonovi, V., Meier, S., Sharda M. and Vaidyanathan, L. 2011. Creating shared value in India: How
Indian corporations are contributing to inclusive
growth while strengthening their competitive advantage. Executive Summary. October 2011. Boston, USA: FSG.
Bosher, L. 2012. Flood Risk Management and the
Roles of the Private Sector in England. Case study
prepared for 2013 Global Assessment Report on
Disaster Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland:
UNISDR. http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
Bouis, H. and Welch, R.M. 2010. Biofortification.
cclix

Sustainable Agricultural Strategy for Reducing Micronutrient Malnutrition in the Global South. Crop
Science, Vol.50, March-April 2010: S20-S32.
Bouton, L. and Sumlinski, M.A. 2000. Trends in Private Investment in Developing Countries. Statistics
for 1970-1998. IFC Discussion Paper No.41. World
Bank. Washington D.C, USA.	
Bouvier, A. and Konold, C. 2011. Pre-crisis and emergency risk communication in the hotel industry in
partnership with non-Governmental organizations.
http://extranet.eshotel.com/documents/ESHotel_
Project_CHME_2011.pdf
Boyenge, J-P. S. 2007. International Labour Office.
ILO database on export processing zones (Revised). WP.251: Sectoral activities programme Working Paper. Geneva. Switzerland.
Brenes, A. and Bonilla A. 2012. Estudio de caso Costa Rica. El Fenómeno La Niña 2010-2012. Background Paper prepared for the 2013 Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction.
Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR. http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
Briceño-Garmendia, C., Smits, K. and Foster, V. 	
2009. Financing Public Infrastructure in Sub-Saharan Africa: Patterns and Emerging Issues. Africa Infrastructure Country Diagnostic, Background Paper 15 (Phase 1). Washington, DC: The International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development / World
Bank.
Brimble, M. 2002. Foreign Direct Investment: Performance and Attraction. The Case of Thailand. Paper
prepared for Workshop on Foreign Direct Investment Opportunities and Challenges for Cambodia, Laos and Vietnam in Hanoi, August 16-17,
2002. The Broer Group, PLC.
Brugmann, J. 2012. Financing the resilient city. 	Environment and Urbanization. Vol 24(1): 1-8.
Burchi, F. Fanzo, J. and Frison, E. 2011. The Role of
Food and Nutrition System Approaches in Tackling Hidden Hunger. International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health 2011, 8:
358-373.
Cabot Venton, C., Fitzgibbon, C., Shitarek, T., Coulter,
L. and Dooley, O. 2012. The Economics of Early Response and Disaster Resilience: Lessons from Kenya
cclx

References

and Ethiopia. Economics of Resilience Final Report. June 2012.
Calvert, Ceres and Oxfam. 2012. Physical Risks from
Climate Change. A guide for companies and investors on disclosure and management of climate impacts. Report prepared by Prepared by David
Gardiner & Associates, LLC for Calvert, Ceres and
Oxfam.
Cambridge Programme for Sustainable Leadership. 	
2011a. 	Increasing mainstream investor understanding of natural capital. Part A: Main Report.
The Cambridge Natural Capital Programme. University of Cambridge. Cambridge, UK.
Cambridge Programme for Sustainable Leadership. 	
2011b. 	
Increasing mainstream investor understanding of natural capital. Part B: Evidence. The
Cambridge Natural Capital Programme. University of Cambridge. Cambridge, UK.	
Carminati, E., and Martinelli, G. 2002. Subsidence
rates in the Po Plain (Northern Italy): the relative
impact of Natural and Anthropic causation. The
Journal of Engineering Geology Vol. 66, 241–55.
Carpenter, A. 2013. Resilience in the Social and Physical Realms: Lessons from the Gulf Coast. Background Paper prepared for the 2013 Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction.
Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR. http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
Castells, M., Caraca, J. and Cardoso, G. 2012. Aftermath. The Cultures of the Economic Crisis. Oxford,
UK: Oxford University Press.
Cattaneo. 2002. Balancing agricultural development and deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon.
Research Report 129. Washington. DC: International Food Policy Research Institute
CCRIF (The Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance
Facility). 2010. Enhancing the climate risk and adaptation fact base for the Caribbean: Preliminary
results of the ECA Study. CCRIF’s Economics of Climate Adaptation (ECA) Initiative. Grand Cayman,
Cayman Islands.
CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project). 2011. DP Water
Disclosure Global Report 2011: Raising corporate
awareness of global water issues. Report written
for Carbon Disclosure Project by Deloitte. Lon-

don,	UK.
CEPAL (Comisión Económica para América Latina y
el Caribe). 2012. Valoración de Daños y pérdidas:
Ola invernal en Colombia, 2010-2011. Misión BIDCEPAL enero 2012. Bogotá, Colombia.
Cernea, M. 2005. The ‘ripple effect’ in social policy
and its political content. In: Likosky, M.B. (ed.) Privatising Development: Transnational Law, Infrastructure and Human Rights. Leiden: Martinus Nijhoff.	
Chang, S.E. 2000a. Disasters and transport systems:
loss, recovery and competition at the Port of
Kobe after the 1995 earthquake. Journal of Transport Geography 8 (2000): 53-65.
Chang, S.E. 2000b. Transportation Performance, Disaster Vulnerability and Long-term effets of Earthquakes. Second EuroConference on Global
Change and Catastrophe Risk Management, 6-9
July 2000. Laxenburg, Austria.
Chatenoux, B. and Peduzzi, P. 2013. Forest fires: Preliminary estimation of ecosystems global losses.
Background Paper prepared for the 2013 Global
Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction.
Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR. http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
Chocrane. 2003. Fire Science for rainforests. Nature, Vol. 421 (27 february 2003): 913-919.
Christchurch Engineering Lefelines Group. 1997.
Risks and Realities: A Multi-Disciplinary Approach to
the Vulnerability of Lifelines to Natural Hazards.
New Zealand Centre for Advanced Engineering.
Chirstchurch, New Zealand.
CIMNE (Centro Internacional de Métodos Numéricos
en Ingeniería), EAI, INGENIAR and ITEC. 2013a.
Probabilistic Modeling of Natural Risks at the Global Level: Global Risk Model. Background Paper
prepared for the 2013 Global Assessment Report
on Disaster Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland:
UNISDR. http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
CIMNE (Centro Internacional de Métodos Numéricos
en Ingeniería), EAI, INGENIAR and ITEC. 2013b.
Probabilistic Modelling of Natural Risks at the Global Level: The Hybrid Loss Exceedance Curve. Background Paper prepared for the 2013 Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction. 	

Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR. http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
City Government of Kobe. 2010. Comprehensive
Strategy for Recovery from the Great Hanshin-Awaji
Earthquake. March 2010. Kobe, Japan.
Clayton, A. 2003. Policy Coherence and Sustainable
Tourism in the Caribbean. 	International Journal of
Contemporary Hospitality Management. 2003,Volume 15, Number 3: 188-191.
Clements-Hunt, P. 	2012. Investment, Finance and
Capital Market Perspectives. The Blended Capital
Group. 	Background Paper prepared for the 2013
Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR. http://
www.preventionweb.net/gar
Committee on Climate Change. 2012. Adaptation
Sub-Committee Progress Report 2012: Climate
Change. Is the UK preparing for flooding and water
scarcity? London, UK.
Containerisation International. 1998. Japanese
port study initiated. Containerisation International, 1 August 1998.
Containerisation International. 2003. The great cull.
Containerisation International, 1 September 2003.
Corey, C. and Deitch. E. 2011. Factor Affecting Business Recovery Immediately After Hurricane Katrina. Journal of Contingencies and Disaster Management, Volume 19, No. 3, September 2011:
169-181.
Cosgrave, J. 2007. Synthesis Report: Expanded Summary. Joint Evaluation of the International Response to the Indian Ocean Tsunami. London: Tsunami Evaluation Coalition.
Cotula, L., Dyer, N. and Vermeulen, S. 2008. Fuelling
exclusion? The biofuels boom and poor people’s access to land. Rome: Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations and International
Fund for Agricultural Development, and London:
International Institute for Environment and Development.
Courbage, C., Orie, M. and Stahel, W. 2012. 2011
Thai floods and insurance. Capter 9. In: Extreme
events and insurance: 2011 annus horribilis. The
Geneva Reports No 5, March 2012. Geneva, Switzerland: The Geneva Association.
cclxi

Craig D. and Porter D. 2003. Poverty Reduction
Strategy Papers: A New Convergence. World Development Vol.31, No. 1: 53-69.
Crespo Cuarisma, J., Hlouskova, J. and Obersteiner,
M. 2008. Natural disasters as creative destruction?
Evidence from developing countries. Economic Inquiry, Vol. 46, Issue 2 (April 2008): 214-226.	
Crichton, D. 2012. Flood Plain Speaking. The Chartered Insurance Institute. 	 London, 	 UK.
Cuevas, J. 2012. Good practices used at the Peninsula de Yucatan, Mexico. CIESAS. Background Paper
prepared for the 2013 Global Assessment Report
on Disaster Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland:
UNISDR. http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
Dalberg. 	2011. Report on Support to SMEs in Developing Countries through Financial Intermediaries. 	
Dalberg Global Development Advisors.
DARA. 	 2012. Risk Reduction Index. Updated global
data table provided to UNISDR in support of the
Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction. http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
DARA. 2013. Brief on Dara’s Risk Reduction Index West
Africa Phase. DARA International. Madrid, Spain.
http://daraint.org/wp-content/
uploads/2012/01/RRI-West-Africa-brief.pdf
Darwanto, H. 2012. Understanding Existing Methodologies for Allocating and Tracking National Government Budget for Disaster Risk Reduction in Indonesia. Study commissioned by UNISDR under the
ADB supported RETA 6511 (Regional Stocktaking
and Mapping of Disaster Risk Reduction Interventions in Asia and the Pacific). http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
De Bono, A. 2013. The Global Exposure Database for
GAR 2013. Background Paper prepared for the
2013 Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk
Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland : UNISDR. http://
www.preventionweb.net/gar
Deloitte. 2012. Aftershocks: Adjusting to the new
World of Risk Management. Deloitte Development
LLC.
Devereux, S. 2003. Policy Options for Increasing the
Contribution of Social Protection to Food Security.
Institute for Development Studies, Forum for
Food Security in Southern Africa. Brighton: IDS.
cclxii

References

DFID (Department for International Development).
2006. Reducing the Risk of Disasters – Helping to
Achieve Sustainable Poverty Reduction in a Vulnerable World. A DFID policy paper’, DFID. London,
UK.
Dhar Chakrabarti, P.G. 2012. Understanding existing
methodologies for allocating and tracking DRR resources in India. Study commissioned by UNISDR
in collaboration with ADPC. Bangkok, Thailand
http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
Di Martire, D. De Rosa, M. Pesce, V. Santangelo M. A.
and Calcaterra, D. 2012. Landslide Hazard and
Land Management in High-density Urban Areas of
Campania Region, Italy. Natural Hazards Earth
System Sciences, 12: 905–926.
DKKV (Deutsches Komitee Katastrophenvorsorge).
2012. Mobilisierung des Privatsektors zur katastrophenpräventiven Anpassung an den Klimawandel.
Teilstudie Deutschland. Bonn, Germany: BMZ,
GIZ and DKKV.
Dollar, D. And Svensson, J. 2000. What explains the
success or failure of structural adjustment programmes? The Economic Journal, 110 (October):
894-917.
Drabek, T.E. 2000. Disaster evacuations: Touristbusiness managers rarely act as customers expect. Cornell Hotel and Restaurant Administration
Quarterly, August 2000: 48-57.
Dreze, J.and Sen, A.K. 1989. Hunger and Public Action. 	 Oxford, UK: Clarendon Press.
Easterly, W. 2003. IMF and World Bank Structural
Adjustment Programs and Poverty. In: Managing
Currency Crises in Emerging Markets of the National Bureau of Economic Research. M. Dooley and J.
A. Frankel (eds.). Chicago: University of Chicago
Press.
ECA (Economics of Climate Adaptation). 2009.
Shaping Climate-Resilient Development. A Framework for décision-making. A Report of the Economics of Climate Adaptation Working Group.
ECLAC (United Nations Economic Commission for
Latin America and the Caribbean). 2002. Handbook
for estimating the socio-economic and environmental effects of disasters. Report LC/MEX/L.519.
Mexico DF, Mexico.

ECLAC (United Nations Economic Commission for
Latin America and the Caribbean). 2003. Handbook for Estimating the Socio-economic and Environmental Effects of Disasters.
LC/MEX/G.5
LC/L.1874.
ECLAC (United Nations Economic Commission for
Latin America and the Caribbean). 2011. The economics of climate change in the Caribbean. Caribbean Development Report, Vol. III. Port-of-Spain,
Trinidad and Tobago.
Ede, A.N. 	2011. Measures to reduce the high incidence of structural failures in Nigeria. Journal for
Sustainable Development in Africa, Vol. 13, No. 1,
2011: 153-161.
EIU (Economist Intelligence Unit). 2011a. Thailand
Country Report October 2011. London, UK.
EIU (Economist Intelligence Unit). 2011b. Thailand
Country Report November 2011. London, UK.
EIU (Economist Intelligence Unit). 2011c. Thailand
Country Report December 2011. London, UK.
EIU (Economist Intelligence Unit). 2012a. Indonesia
Country Report December 2012. London, UK.
EIU (Economist Intelligence Unit). 2012b. Kenya
Country Report December 2012. London, UK.
EIU (Economist Intelligence Unit). 2012c. Haiti Country Report 4th quarter 2012. London, UK.
EIU (Economist Intelligence Unit). 2012d. The EIU
Methodology. Internal Briefing Paper prepared for
the 2013 Global Assessment Report on Disaster
Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR.	
http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
EIU (Economist Intelligence Unit). 2012e. Thailand
politics: Quick View - Flooding flashpoint. EIU
Viewswire, 3rd September 2012. London, UK.
Elkin, S. 1987. City and Regime in the American Republic. Chicago, USA: The University of Chicago
Press.
Elkins, Z., Guzman, A. and Simmons, B. 2006. Competing for capital: the diffusion of bilateral investment treaties, 1960-2000. International Organizations, Vol. 60. No. 4 (Autumn 2006): 811-846.
Enz, R. 	2000. The S-Curve Relation between PerCapita Income and Insurance Penetration. The
Geneva Papers on Risk and Insurance, 25 (3): 396406.

Epstein, G., Grabel, I. and Jomo, K.S. 2003. Capital
management techniques in developing countries:
an assessment of experiences from the 1990s and
lessons for the future. Presented at the XVIth Technical Group Meeting (TGM) of the G-24. Port-ofSpain, Trinidad and Tobago.
Erian, W., Katlan, B., Ouldbedy, B., Awad, H., Zaghtity, E. and Ibrahim, S. 2012.  Agriculture Drought in
Africa and Mediterranean. Background Paper prepared for the 2013 Global Assessment Report on
Disaster Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland:
UNISDR. http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
ERN-AL (Consortium Evaluación de Riesgos Naturales – America Latina). 2011. Probabilistic modelling of disaster risk at global level: development of a
methodology and implementation of case studies.
Phase 1A: Colombia, Mexico and Nepal. Background
Paper prepared for the 2011 Global Assessment
Report on Disaster Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR. http://www.preventionweb.net/
gar
Ernst and Young. 2012. Turning risk into results. How
leading companies use risk management to fuel
better performance. http://www.ey.com/Publication/vwLUAssets/Turning_risk_into_
results/$FILE/Turning%20risk%20into%20results_
AU1082_1%20Feb%202012.pdf
Escaleras, M. and Register, C.A. 2011. Natural Disasters and Foreign Direct Investment. Land Economics Vol. 87(2): 346-363.
European Commission. 2011. Draft Amending Budget N° 7 to the General Budget 2011, Statement of
Expenditure by Section. COM(2011) 796 final.
Brussels.
European Commission. 2012. Draft Amending Budget N° 2 to the General Budget 2012, Statement of
Expenditure by Section. COM(2012) 125 final.
Brussels.
FAO (Food and Agriculture Organization) and UNIDO
(United Nations Industrial Development Organization). 2009. Agro-Industries for Development. CAB
International and FAO. Rome, Italy.
FAO (Food and Agriculture Organization), IFAD (International Fund for Agricultural Development),
IMF (International Monetary Fund), OECD (Organcclxiii

isation for Economic Cooperation and Development). 2011. Price Volatility in Food and Agricultural Markets: Policy Responses. Policy Report
including contributions by FAO, IFAD, IMF,OECD,
UNCTAD, WFP, World Bank, the WTO, IFPRI and
the UN HLTF, 2 June 2011.
FAO (Food and Agriculture Organization). 2009.
FAO’s role in the Syria drought response plan 2009.
Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United
Nations (FAO). Rome, Italy.
FAO (Food and Agriculture Organization). 2010.
Price surges in food markets. Economic and Social
Perspectives, Policy Brief 9, June 2010. http://
www.fao.org/docrep/012/al296e/al296e00.pdf
FAO (Food and Agriculture Organization). 2011a.
Global Food Losses and Food Waste. Extent,
Causes and Prevention. Study conducted for the
International Congress “Save food” at Interpack
2011, Düsseldorf, Germany. Rome, 	 Italy.
FAO (Food and Agriculture Organization). 2011b. Situation analysis: improving food safety in the maize
value chain in Kenya. Report prepared for FAO by
Prof. Erastus Kang’ethe, College of Agriculture and
Veterinary Science. Nairobi, Kenya.
FAO (Food and Agriculture Organization). 2012a.
The State of Food and Agriculture. Investing on agriculture for a better future. Office of Knowledge
Exchange, Research and Extensio Rome, Italy.
FAO (Food and Agriculture Organization). 2012b.
Price Monitoring and Analysis Country Brief Ethiopia. September 2011 - February 2012. Food Security Information for Decision Making. http://www.
fao.org/docrep/015/an612e/an612e00.pdf
FAO (Food and Agriculture Organization). 2012c.
Price volatility from a global perspective. Technical
background document for the high-level event
on: “Food Price volatility and the role of speculation”, 6 July 2012. Paper prepared by the FAO
Trade and Markets Division (EST). Rome, Italy.
Farrington, J., Holmes, R. and Slater, R. 2008. Linking Agriculture Growth and Social Protection: Conceptual framework. ODI Background Paper. 	
London: Overseas Development Institute.
Fasecolda (Federation de Aseguradores Colombianos). 	2011. Siniestros reportados a las aseguradocclxiv

References

ras por ola invernal superan los $500.000 millones. 	
Las noticias del sector asegurador, en linea 31 de
mayo de 2011. Colombia.
Fava Neves, M. 2011. Food chains and the reasons
behind rising food prices. 	Food Chain, Vol. 1, No.
1. (May 2011): 52-70. 			
Fava Neves, M. and Alves Pinto M. 2012. Analysis of
the relationship between public regulation and investment decisions for disaster risk reduction in the
agribusiness sector. Background Paper prepared
for the 2013 Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR.
http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
Ferris, E. and Petz, D. 2012. The Year that Shook the
Rich: a review of natural disasters in 2011. The Broings Institution and London School of Economics
Project on Internal Displacement.
Feyen, E., Lester, R. and Rocha, R. 2011. What Drives
the Development of the Insurance Sector? An Empirical Analysis Based on a Panel of Developed and
Developing Countries. World Bank, Working Paper
S5572.
FM Global. 2010. Why Companies Risk it All ? Flirting
with Natural Disasters. http://www.fmglobal.com/
assets/pdf/P10168.pdf
Forster, J., Schuhmann, P.W., Lake, I.R., Watkinson,
A.R. and Gill, J.A. 2012. The influence of hurricane
risk on tourist destination choice in the Caribbean. Climate Change, Vol. 114, Issue 3-4: 745-768.
Foster, V. and Briceño-Garmendia, C. 2010. Africa’s
insfrastructure. A time for transformation. A copublication of the Agence Fraçaise de Développement and World Bank.
Fra Paleo, U. (ed.). 2009. Building Safer Communities. Risk Governance, Spatial Planning and Responses to Natural Hazards. Amsterdam, The
Netherlands: IOS Press.
Fujimoto, T. 2011. Supply Chain Competitiveness
and Robustness: A Lesson from the 2011 Tohu
Earthquake and Supply Chain “Virtual Dualization”. 	Tokyo, Japan.
Funabashi, Y. and Takenaka, H. 2012. Lessons from
Japan’s Disaster. Risk management and the
compound crisis presented by the Great East
Japan Earthquake. http://www.chathamhouse.

org/publications/papers/view/182634
Funk et al. 2010. A Climate Trend Analysis of Kenya. 	
Famine Early Warning Systems Network (FEWSNET) —Informing Climate Change Adaptation Series. Denver, USA.
Funk et al. 2012a. A Climate Trend Analysis of Ethiopia. Famine Early Warning Systems Network
(FEWSNET) —Informing Climate Change Adaptation Series. Denver, USA.
Funk et al. 2012b. A Climate Trend Analysis of Uganda. Famine Early Warning Systems Network
(FEWSNET) —Informing Climate Change Adaptation Series. Denver, USA.
G20/OECD. 2012. Disaster Risk Assessment and Risk
Financing. A G20/OECD Methodological Framework. 	Paris, France: OECD. http://www.oecd.
org/gov/risk/G20disasterriskmanagement.pdf.
Gencer, E. 2012. The Impact of Globalization on Disaster Risk Trends: A Macro- and Urban- Scale Analysis. Background Paper prepared for the 2013
Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR. http://
www.preventionweb.net/gar
Gerulis-Darcy, M. 2012. Implications of the Global
Political Economy on Vulnerability to Disasters: The
Case of Long-Term Structural Adjustment Policies in
Nicaragua. Background Paper prepared for the
2013 Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk
Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR. http://
www.preventionweb.net/gar
GFMC (Global Fire Monitoring Centre). 	2012. White
Paper on Vegetation Fires and Global Change. Final draft, 19 October 2012. Freiburg, Germany.
Gleeson, B. and Low, N. 2000. Revaluing planning:
Rolling back neo-liberalism in Australia. Progress
in Planning 53 (2000): 83-164.
Global Construction Perspectives and Oxford Economics. 2011. Global construction 2020: A global
forecast for the construction industry over the next
decade to 2020. London, UK.
GNDR (Global Network of Civil Society Organisations for Disaster Reduction). 2011. If you do not
join hands. Views from the Frontline. Local reports
of progress on implementing the Hyogo Framework
for Action, with strategic recommendations for

more effective implementation. Global Network of
Civil Society Organisations for Disaster Reduction. May 2011.
Goldhammer, J.G. 	 2009. Regional / National Impact
of Climate Change on Fire Regimes. International
Symposium. Busan, Korea.
Gordon, M. 2013. Exploring Existing Methodologies
for Allocating and Tracking Disaster Risk Reduction in National Public Investment. Background
Paper prepared for the 2013 Global Assessment
Report on Disaster Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR. http://www.preventionweb.
net/gar
Government of Bangladesh. 2012. National Progress Report on the Implementation of the Hyogo
Framework for Action (2011-2013). Interim Report,
31 October 2012.
Government of Bhutan. 2004. Thimpu Structure
Plan, 2002–-2007. Revision 1st August 2004. Ministry of Works and Human Settlement. Department
of Urban Development and Engineering Services.
Bhutan.
Government of Brazil. 2010. Light for All: A Historic
Landmark, 10 million Brazilians out of the darkness.
Ministério de Minas e Energia. Brasília, Brasil.
Government of Colombia. 2011. Evaluación de daños del fenómeno de La Niña 2010-2011. Ministerio
del Interior y de Justicia - DGR. Bogotá, Colombia.
Government of Colombia. 2012. Contingent liability
Management in Colombia and the Financial Strategy associated with Natural Disasters. Chapter 7.
In: Improving the assessment of disaster risks to
strengthen financial resilience. Government of
Mexico and World Bank. 2012: 132-141.
Government of Costa Rica. 2010. El Impacto Económico de los Eventos Naturales y Antrópicos Extremos en
Costa Rica, 1988-2009. MIDEPLAN (Ministerio de Planificación Nacional y Política Económica). San
José, Costa Rica.
Government of Italy. 2012. Italian Application to Mobilize the European Union Solidarity Fund - EUSF.
Earthquakes May 2012 in the area of the regions:
Emilia-Romagna, Lombardia and Veneto. Civil Protection Department, Government of Italy.
Government of Japan. 2011. Disaster Management
cclxv

in Japan. February 2011. Tokyo, Japan.
Government of Japan. 2012a. White Paper on Small
and Medium Enterprises in Japan. Ministry of
Economy, Trade and Industry and Japan Small
Business Research Institute. Tokyo, Japan.	
Government of Japan. 2012b. White Paper on Land,
Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism in Japan, FY
2011. Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport
and Tourism. Tokyo, Japan.	
Government of Japan. 2012c. White Paper on Disaster Management in Japan, 2012. Cabinet Office.
Tokyo, Japan.
Government of Mexico and World Bank. 2012. Improving the Assessment of Disaster Risks to
Strengthen Financial Resilience. A Special Joint
G20 Publication by the Government of Mexico and
World Bank. 2012 International Bank for Reconstruction and Development / International Development. Washington, DC: USA.
Government of Namibia. 2012. Disaster Risk Management Act. Government Gazette of the Republic
of Namibia. No. 5029, September 2012. Windhoek
Namibia
Government of Samoa. 2009. Samoa Post-Disaster
Needs Assessment: Following the Erthquake and
Tsunami on 29th September 2009. GFDRR. Washington DC, USA.
Government of the United Kingdom. 2006. Planning
Policy Statement 25: Development and Flood Risk. 	
Department of Communities and Local Government. London, UK.
Government of the United Kingdom. 2008. Plannning
for the Rising Tides: The Humber Flood Risk Management Strategy. Environment Agency. Leeds,
UK.
Government of the United Kingdom. 2011. Adapting
to an Uncertain Climate: A World of Commercial Opportunities. UK Trade and Investment.
Government of the United Kingdom. 2012. National
Planning Policy Framework. Department of Communities and Local Government. London, UK	.
Government of the United States of America. 2012.
National progress report on the implementation of
the Hyogo Framework for Action (2011-2013).
Grain. 2012. Who’s behind the land grabs? A look at
cclxvi

References

some of the people pursuing or supporting large
farmland grabs around the world. Grain factsheet,
October 2012. Barcelona, Spain.
Gubbels, P. 2012. Changing the Development Paradigm: Key to Managing Drought Risk in areas of
Chronic Food Insecurity in Africa. Background Paper
prepared for the 2013 Global Assessment Report
on Disaster Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland:
UNISDR http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
Hall, C.M.	2010. Crisis events in tourism: subjects of
crisis in tourism. 	 Current Issues in Tourism, Vol 13,
No 5: 401-417.
Hallegatte, S. 2011. How economic growth and rational decisions can make disaster losses grow faster
than wealth. World Bank. Policy Research Working Paper No. 5617.
Hallegatte, S., Henriet, F., Patwardhan, A., et. al.
2010. Flood Risks, Climate Change Impacts and Adaptation Benefits in Mumbai. An initial assessment
of socio-economic consequences of present and
climate induced flood risks and of possible adaptation options. OECD Environment Working Papers
No. 27.
Hamdan, F. 2012. Intensive and Extensive Disaster
Risk Drivers and Incentives for Disaster Risk Management in the MENA region. Background Paper
prepared for the 2013 Global Assessment Report
on Disaster Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland:
UNISDR. http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
Haraguchi, M. and Lall, U. 2012. Flood Risks and Impacts. Future Research Questions and Implications
to Private Investment Decision-Making for Supply
Chain Networks. Background Paper prepared for
the 2013 Global Assessment Report on Disaster
Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR.
http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
Harrington, K. and O’Connor, J. 2009. How Cisco
Succeeds. Supply Chain Management Review.
July/August 2009.
Harvey, D. 1985. Studies in the History and Theory of
Capitalist Urbanization. Vol. 2. Urbanization of Capital. Oxford, UK : Basil Blackwell Ltd.
Hatton, T., Seville, E. and Vargo, J. 2012. Improving
the Resilience of SMEs: Policy and Practice in New
Zealand. Resilient Organisations Research Report

2012/012 ISSN 1178-7279.
Hawnevik, K., Matondi, P. B. and Beyene, A. 2012
Biofuels, Land Grabbing and Food Security in Africa.
Zed Bos/Nordiska Afrikainstitutet. London, UK.
Hayashi, T. 2012. Japan’s Post-Disaster Economic
Reconstruction: From Kobe to Tohuku. Asian Economic Journal 2012 Vol.26 No. 3: 189-210.
Hazell, P. and Hess, U. 2010. Drought insurance for
agricultural development and food security in
dryland areas. Food Security, December 2010, Volume 2, Issue 4, pp 395-405.
Heise, A. and Lierse, H. 2011. The Effects of European Austerity Programmes on Social Security Systems. Modern Economy Vol 2: 498-513.
Heitzmann, K., Canagarajah, S. and Siegel, P. 2002.
Guidelines for Assessing the Sources of Risk and Vulnerability. Social Protection Discussion Paper Series No 0218, World Bank.
Henshaw, G. 2010. The role of private sector in the
provision of affordable housing to the public. Lecture presented to the Nigerian Society of Engineers, Cross River State branch, on its 2010 workshop.
Hill, H. and Pittman, J. 2012. Agriculture and Disaster Risk Reduction. Background Paper prepared
for the 2013 Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR. http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
Hobsbawm, E. 2011. How to change the world. Tales
of Marx and Marxism. London, UK: Little Brown/
Abacus.
Hochrainer, S. 2009. Assessing the Macroeconomic
Impact of Natural Disasters: Are there any? Policy
Research Working Paper 4968. Washington:
World Bank.
Hochrainer, S. 2012. Financial and Economic Disaster Risk Estimation in Madagascar for the Implementation of CatSim. Summary report for the
project “Mainstreaming Disaster Risk Management and Climate Change in Economic Development. Technical Assistance to the Republic of
Madagascar”. Vienna, Austria: IIASA.
Hochrainer, S., Timonina, A., Williges, K., Pflug,G.
and Mechler, R. 2013. Modelling the indirect and
fiscal risks from natural disasters using the CatSim

model. Background Paper prepared for the 2013
Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR. http://www.
preventionweb.net/gar
Hoekstra, A.Y. and Chapagain, A.K. 2008. Globalization of water: Sharing the planet’s freshwater resources. Oxford, UK: Blackwell Publishing,
Holt, J., Le Jeune, S., Bernard, J., Chastre, C. and
Berton, H. 2009. Understanding the Household
Economy in Rural Niger. London: Save the Children UK.
Honey, M. and Krantz, D. 2007. Global Trends in
Coastal Tourism. Prepared for Marine Program
World Wildlife Fund. Washington DC, USA
Hsiang, S.M. and Jina, A.S. 2012. Development after
Disaster. Background Paper prepared for the 2013
Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR. http://
www.preventionweb.net/gar
Hussels, S., Ward, D. and Zurbruegg, R. 2005. Stimulating the Demand for Insurance. Risk Management and Insurance Review, 8 (2): pp. 257-278.
IADB (Inter-American Development Bank). 2010. Indicators of Disaster Risk and Risk Management.
Program for Latin America and the Caribean. Technical notes, IDB-TN-169, September 2010.
IASC (Inter-Agency Standing Committee). 2012.
Strategic Document Version 2 Response plan addressing the food and nutrition crisis in the Sahel.
15 February 2012. Dakar Inter Agency Standing
Committee.
IATP (Institute for Agriculture and Trade Policy). 	
2009. Betting Against Food Security: Futures Market Speculation. Trade and Global Governance
Programme. Minneapolis, USA: Institute for Agriculture and Trade Policy.
IFC (International Financial Corporation). 2012. IFC
and Small and Medium Enterprises. IFC Issue Brief.
International Finance Corporation.
IFPRI (International Food Policy Research Institute).
2011. Food Prices: Riding the Rollercoaster. 2011
International Food Policy Report. Washington,
DC: IFPRI.
IHS Global Insight.	 2012. As the clear-up begins, a
look at hurricane Sandy’s likely economic toll.
cclxvii

Country & Industry Forecasting, 31 October 2012.
IIED (International Institute for Ennvironment and
Development). 2012a. Draft Resilient Cities report.
Unpublished contribution to the UNISDR Making
Cities Resilient Report 2012. Draft of 6 July 2012).
Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR. http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
IIED (International Institute for Environment and Development). 2012. The global land rush: what the
evidence reveals about scale and geography. IIED
Briefing, April 2012b, written by Lorenzo Cotula
and Emily Polack. London: IIED.
IIED (International Institute for Environment and
Development), FAO (Food and Agriculture Organization), and IFAD (International Fund for Agricultural Development). 2009. Land grab or development opportunity? Agricultural investment and
international land deals in Africa. IIED/FAO/IFAD.
London/Rome.
IIGCC (Institutional Investors Group on Climate
Change). 2010. Climate Impact Reporting for Property Investment Portfolios: A guide for Pension
Funds and their Trustees and Fund Managers. Report of the Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change. London, UK
IIHS (Indian Institute for Human Settlements). 2012.
The Role of Private Sector in Reducing Disaster Risk
in Large Scale Infrastructure and Real Estate Development, Case of Delhi. Background Paper prepared for the 2013 Global Assessment Report on
Disaster Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland:
UNISDR. http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
IISD (International Institute for Sustainable Development), the Blended Capital Group, and UNEP-FI
(United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative). 2012. Financial stability and systemic risk. Lenses and Clocks. IISD Report, June
2012. Geneva, Switzerland.
ILO (International Labor Office or Organization).
2012. Global Employment Trends 2012. Geneva,
Switzerland: ILO.
IMECHE (Institution of Mechanical Engeneers). 2012.
Global Food. Waste not, want not. London, UK.
IMF (International Monetary Fund). 2012. Regional
Economic Outlook. Sub-Saharan Africa: Maintaincclxviii

References

ing Growth in an Uncertain World. World Economic and Financial Surveys. October 2012. Washington, DC: IMF.
Ingirige, B. and Amaratunga, D. 2012. Minimising
flood risk accumulation through effective private
and public sector engagement. Background
Paper prepared for the 2013 Global Assessment
Report on Disaster Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR. http://www.preventionweb.net/
gar
IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change).
2007. Climate Change 2007: Impacts, Adaptation
and Vulnerability. IPCC Synthesis Report. Geneva,
Switzerland.
IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change). 	
2012. Managing the Risks of Extreme Events and
Disasters to Advance Climate Change Adaptation.
Special Report of Working Groups I and II of the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
(Field, C.B., V. Barros, T.F. Stocker, D. Qin, D.J.
Dken, K.L. Ebi, M.D. Mastrandrea, K.J. Mach, G.-K.
Plattner, S.K. Allen, M. Tignor, and P.M. Midgley
(eds.). Cambridge University Press. Cambridge,
UK, and New York, NY, USA.
Ipsos MORI. 2013. Making Futures Real. Exploring
how policy-makers perceive and deal with longterm risk. Research report prepared for UNISDR
and HFP, Kings College. 	
IRGC (Integrated Risk Governance Council). 2005.
Risk Governance. Towards an integrated approach.
Geneva, Switzerland: Integrated Risk Governance
Council.
IRGP-IHDP. 2010. Integrated Risk Governance Project
Science Plan. Integrated Risk Governance Project
and International Human Dimension Program for
Global Environmental Changes. Bonn, Germany.
IRIN (Integrated Regional Information Networks).
2010. Niger: Southern villages emptying as drought
bites. Humanitarian News and Analysis. 6 December 2012.
IRP (International Recovery Platform). 2012. Policy,
partnerships & land use planning interventions to
reduce future risks. Background Paper prepared
for the 2013 Global Assessment Report on Disaster
Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR.	

http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
Jabeen, H. 2012. Private Sector Investment Decisions
in Building and Construction: Increasing, Managing
and Transferring Risks: The Case of Dhaka. Case
study prepared for the 2013 Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR. http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
Jackson, I. 2002. Adaptation to Climate Change in
the Caribbean Tourism Sector Workshop Grenada,
May 27-28, 2002. Prepared for the Organization of
American States (OAS).
Jayanthi, H. and Husak, G.J. 	2012. A probabilistic
approach to assess agricultural drought risk. Background Paper prepared for the 2013 Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR.
http://www.
preventionweb.net/gar
Johannessen, A. Rosemarin, A. Gerger Swartling, A.
Han, G. Vulturius, G and Stenström, T.A. 2013.
Linking Investment Decisions with Disaster Risk Reduction in Water Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH):
The Role of the Public and Private Sectors, Potentials for Partnership and Social Learning. Background Paper prepared for the 2013 Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction.
Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR. http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
Johnson, C. 2011. Creating an enabling environment
for reducing disaster risk: Recent experience of regulatory frameworks for land, planning and building
in low and middle-income countries. Background
Paper prepared for the 2011 Global Assessment
Report on Disaster Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR. http://www.preventionweb.
net/gar
Johnson, C., Adelekan, I., Bosher, L., Jabeen, H., Kataria, S., Wijitbusaba, A. and Zerjav, B. 2012. Private Sector Investment Decisions in Building and
Construction: Increasing, Managing and Transferring Risks. Background Paper prepared for the
2013 Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk
Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR. http://
www.preventionweb.net/gar
Johnston, D. 2012. The Value of Seismic Risk Mitigation in Canterbury, New Zealand. Case study pre-

pared for the 2013 Global Assessment Report on
Disaster Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland:
UNISDR. http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
Jones Lang LaSalle. 2013. Global Market Perspective, first quarter 2013.
Jose, S.R. 2012. Preliminary examination of Existing
Methodologies for Allocating and Tracking National
Government Budget for Disaster Risk Reduction
(DRR) in the Philippines. Study commissioned by
UNISDR under the ADB supported RETA 6511 (Regional Stocktaking and Mapping of Disaster Risk
Reduction Internventions in Asia and the Pacific).
http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
Joskow, P.L. and Parsons, J.E. 2012. The Future of
Nuclear Power After Fukushima. MIT Center for Energy and Environmental Policy Research., CEEPR
WP 2012-001, February 2012.
Kamal-Chaoui, L., Leman, E. and Rufei, Z. 2009.
Urban Trends and Policy in China. OECD Regional
Development Working Papers, 2009/1. Paris,
France: OECD.
Karlsson, A. 2012. Innovative Approaches to Address
DRR Implementation in Cities. Sustainability Certification of Urban Areas and Opportunities to Integrate Resilience and DRR. Presentation at the
Seminar 25 May 2012 on “Resilient cities - From
knowledge to local action” convened by the
Swedish Water House cluster group for Water and
Disaster Risk Reduction.
Kataria, S. and Zerjav, B. 2012. Private Sector Investment Decisions in Building and Construction: Increasing, Managing and Transferring Risks: A Literature Review. Prepared for the 2013 Global
Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction.
Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR. http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
Kayode, F., Ojo, B. and Sheba E.A. 2008. Review Paper: Design, Aesthetics and the Isue of Integrity in
the Built Environment: The Nigerian Example. Indoor and Built Environment, August 2008 Vol. 17
No.4, 283-298.
Kellet and Sparks. 2012. Disaster Risk Reduction Spending where it should count. Global Humanitarian Assistance / Development Initiatives.
Kent, R. 2013. Making Futures Real: The policy-makcclxix

ers challenge. Background Paper prepared for the
2013 Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk
Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR.	
http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
Khan, M.E. 2005. The Death Toll from Natural Disasters: the Role of Income, Geography and Institutions. The Review of Economics and Statistics, 87
(2): 271-284.
King, A. 2012. Livelihood profiles, North Eastern Provinces, Kenya. Food Economy Group and Save the
Children, Oct. 2012.
KPMG International. 2012. Expect the Unexpected:
Building Business Value in a Changing World. Part I.
http://www.kpmg.com/Global/en/IssuesAndInsights/ArticlesPublications/Documents/buildingbusiness-value-part-1.pdf
Kyrili, K. and Martin, M. 2010. The Impact of the Global Economic Crisis on the Budgets of Low-Income
Countries. A report for Oxfam by Development Financing International. Oxford, UK: Oxfam International.
Lao People’s Democratic Republic. 2012. National
Progress Report on the Implementation of Hyogo
Framework for Action (2011-2013) - interim report. 	
HFA Monitor update. http://www.preventionweb.
net/english/countries/asia/lao/
Lapvitsas, C., Kaltenbrunner, A., Lambrinidis, G., Lindo, D., Meadway, J., Michell, J., Painceira, J.P.,
Pires, E., Powell, J., Stenfors, A. and Teles, N. 2010.
The Eurozone between austerity and default. RMF
Occasional Report, September 2010.
Lavell, A.	 2003. Regional Programme for Risk Management in Central America. Ideas and notions relating to concept and practice. Panama: CEPREDENAC and UNDP.
Le Courtois, E., Gálvez-Nogales, E., Santacoloma, P.
and Tartanac, F. 	2010. Enhancing farmers’ access
to markets for certified products: A comparative
analysis using a business model approach. AGS
Main Series, Agricultural Management, Marketing
and Finance Working Documents, Issue 28. Rome:
FAO.	
Lewsey, C., Cid, G. and Kruse, E. 2004. Assessing climate change impacts on coastal infrastructure in
the Eastern Caribbean. Marine Policy 28 (2004):
cclxx

References

393-409.
Likosky, M.B. 2009. Contracting and regulatory issues in the oil and gas and metallic minerals industries. Transnational Corporations, Vol 18, No. 1
(April 2009).	
Llasat, M. and Siccardi, F. 2010. A reflection about
the social and technological aspects in flood risk
management – the case of the Italian Civil Protection. 	Natural Hazards Earth System Science, 10:
109–119.
Lloyds. 2011. Lloyds Risk Index 2011. 	Featuring
content by Economist Intelligence Unit. London:
Lloyds.	
Lloyds. 2012. Lloyd’s Global Underinsurance Report.
October 2012. London: Lloyds.
Lo, B., Mlachila, M., Nallari, R. and Kalonji, K. 2003.
The impact of external indebtedness on poverty in
low-income countries. IMF Working Paper No.
03/61. International Monetary Fund. Washington
DC, USA.
Lorphensri, O., Ladawadee, A. and Dhammasarn, S. 	
2011. Review of Groundwater management and
Land Subsistance in Bangkok, Thailand. Chapter 7.
In: Makoto Taniguchi (Ed.). Groundwater and Subsurface Environments. Human Impacts in Asian
Coastal Cities. Kyoto, Japan: Springer.
Louw, A., Vermeulen, H., Kirsten, J., and Madevu, H. 	
2007. Securing small farmer participation in supermarket supply chains in South Africa.  Development Southern Africa 24(4): 539–551.
Luino, F., Turconi, L., Petrea, C. and Nigrelli G. 2012.
Uncorrected land-use planning highlighted by
flooding: the Alba case study (Piedmont, Italy).
Natural Hazards Earth System Sciences, 12: 2329–
2346.
Mahon, R. 2007. The Role of Physical Planning in
Linking Disaster Risk Reduction to the Development
Process: Coastal Tourism Reconstruction in Grand
Anse, Grenada. Paper presented at the 5th International Coastal and Marine Tourism Congress:
Balancing Marine Tourism, Development and Sustainability. Auckland, New Zealand.	
Mahon, R., Becken, S. and Rennie, H. 2012. Evaluating the Business Case for Investment in the Risk Resilience of the Tourism sector of Small Island Devel-

oping States. Background Paper prepared for the
2013 Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk
Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR. http://
www.preventionweb.net/gar
Marome, W.A. 2012. Private Sector Investment Decisions in Building and Construction: Increasing,
Managing, and Transferring Risks: A Case Study of
Thailand. Background Paper prepared for the
2013 Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk
Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR. http://
www.preventionweb.net/gar
Marsh, Inc. 2012. Navigating the risk and insurance
landscape: Latin America and Caribbean Insurance
Market Report 2012. http://usa.marsh.com/Portals/9/Documents/1807NCN2012IMR-LAC.pdf	
Marsh. 	2011. Preparing the Local Public Sector for
Risk Governance: First Steps Towards an ISO 31000
Framework. Framework for Public Risk Governance and Lessons Learnt.
Masters, M.W. and White, A.K. 2011. How institutional investors are driving up food and energy prices.
Chapter 1. In: IATP, 2011. Excessive speculation in
Agricultural Commodities. Selected Writings from
2008-2011. Minneaplolis, USA: IATP.
Matondi, P. B., Havnevik, K. and Beyene, A. 2011.
Biofuels, land grabbing and food security in Africa.
Uppsala, Sweden: Zed Books Ltd.
Maxwell, S. and Slater, R. 2003. Food policy old and
new. 	Development Policy Review 21(5–6): 531–553.
McKinsey Global Institute. 2009. Global capital markets: Entering a new era. September 2009.
Mechler, R. 2004. Natural Disaster Risk Management
and Financing Disaster Losses in Developing Countries. Band 1, Karlsruher Reihe II: Risikoforschung
und Versicherungsmanagement. Karlsruhe,	
Germany: Verlag Versicherungswirtschaft.
Mechler, R. 2009. Disasters and Economic Welfare.
Can National Savings Measures Help Explain Post
Disaster Changes in Consumption? 	Background
Paper for Chapter 2 of World Bank/UNISDR 2010:
Natural Hazards, Unnatural Disasters. https://
www.gfdrr.org/node/284
Mechler, R., Hochrainer, S., Linnerooth-Bayer, J. and
Pflug, G. 2012. Public Sector Financial Vulnerability
to Disasters. The IIASA CatSim Model. In: Birk-

mann, J. (ed.): Measuring Vulnerability to Natural
Hazards. Towards Disaster Resilient Societies. Revised and extended Second Edition, Tokyo, Japan: United Nations University Press.
Mechler, R., Hochrainer, S., Pflug, G., Lotsch, A. with
Williges, K. 2009. Assessing the Financial Vulnerability to Climate-Related Natural Hazards. Policy
Research Working Paper, 5232 (Background Paper for the Development and Climate Change
World Development Report 2010). Washington,
DC: World Bank.
Mechler, R., Hochrainer-Stigler, S. and Nakano, K.
2013. Modelling the Economic Effects of Disaster
Risk in Nepal. In: Amendola et al. (eds.): Integrated
Catastrophe Risk Modeling. Advances in Natural
and Technological Hazards Research. Springer.
Mechler, R., Linnerooth-Bayer, J., Hochrainer, S. and
Pflug, G. 2006. Assessing Financial Vulnerability
and Coping Capacity: The IIASA CatSim Model.
Concepts and Methods. In: Measuring Vulnerability and Coping Capacity to Hazards of Natural Origin. J. Birkmann (ed.). Tokyo, Japan: United Nations University Press.
Méheux, K. and Parker, E. 2006. Tourist sector perceptions of natural hazards in Vanuatu and the
implications for a small island developing state.
Tourism Management 27 (2006): 69-85.
Mekkonen, M.M. and Hoekstra. A.Y. 2011. National
Water Footprint Accounts: The green, blue, and
gray water footprint of production and consumption. 	Value of Water Research Report Series No. 50.
Volume 1: Main Report. Delft, The Netherlands:
UNESCO-IHE Institute for Water Education.
Menoni, S., Pesaro, G., Mejri, O. and Atun, F. 2005. Interface between public and private treatment of
«public goods». Background Paper prepared for
the 2013 Global Assessment Report on Disaster
Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland:UNISDR.
http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
Mitlin, D. and Satterthwaite D. 2012. Urban Poverty
in the Global South: Scale and Nature. London,
Routledge
Mkumbwa, S. 2011. Cereal food commodities in
Eastern Africa: consumption - production gap trends
and projections for 2020. MPRA Paper 42113. http://
cclxxi

mpra.ub.uni-muenchen.de/42113/
Mori Building. 2012. Comprehensive disaster management measures: From the city that people run
away from, into the city that people seek refuge in
time of disaster (original document in Japanese). 	
Mori Building report. http://www.mori.co.jp/en
Moteff, J.	2007. Critical Infrastructure: The National
Asset Database. CRS Report for Congress. Updated July 16, 2007. Congressional Research Service.
http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/homesec/RL33648.pdf
Muir-Wood, R. 2012. The Christchurch earthquakes
of 2010 and 2011. The Geneva Reports. Risk Insurance Research. Geneva, Switzerland: The Geneva
Association.
Mukhija, V. 2003. Squatters as Developers? Slum Redevelopment in Mumbai. Aldershot, UK: Ashgate.
Munich Re. 2010. TOPICS GEO Natural catastrophes
2010 Analyses, assessments, positions. Munich Re.
Munich, Germany.
Munich Re. 2012. TOPICS GEO Natural catastrophes
2011. Analyses, assessments, positions. 2012 Issue,
Munich Re. Munich, Germany.
Mycoo, M. 2006. Sustainable Tourism Using Regulations, Market Mechanisms and Green Certification: A Case Study of Barbados. Journal of Sustainable Tourism, Vol.14, No.5: 489-511.	
Nagamatsu, S. 2007. Economic Problems During
Recovery from the 1995 Great Hanshin-Awaji
Earthquake. Journal of Disaster Research Vol.2,
N°5. 372-380.
NAPC (National Agricultural Policy Center). 2009.
Syrian Agricultural Trade 2008-2009. Ministry of
Agriculture and Agrarian Reform, Syrian Arab Republic.	
National Academies. 2012. Disaster Resilience. A national imperative, Summary Report. The National
Academies Press. Washington USA.
National Academy of Sciences. 2007. Water implications of biofuel production in the United States. Report in Brief, October 2007. The National Academy
of Sciences. Washington, USA.
National Diet of Japan. 2012. The Official Report of
the Fukushima. Nuclear Accident Independent
Investigation Commission. http://www.nirs.org/
fukushima/naiic_report.pdf
cclxxii

References

National Intelligence Council. 2012. Global Trends
2030: Alternative Worlds. Office of the Director of
National Intelligence. United States of America.
National Transportation Safety Board. 2007. Collapse
of I-35W Highway Bridge Minneapolis, Minnesota.
August 1, 2007. Accident Report. NTSB/HAR-08/03
PB2008-916203. United States of America.
Nellemann, C., MacDevette, M., Manders, T., Eickhout, B., Svihus, B., Prins, A. G., Kaltenborn, B. P.
(Eds). 2009.  The environmental food crisis – The
environment’s role in averting future food crises. A
UNEP rapid response assessment. United Nations
Environment Programme, GRID-Arendal. 	
NERC (National Environment Research Council (CEH
(Center of Ecology and Hydrology))).	2012. Hydrological Summary for the United Kingdom. Oxfordshire, UK.
Neumayer, E. and Barthel, F. 	2011. Normalizing Economic Loss from Natural Disasters: A Global Analysis. 	Global environmental change, 21 (1): 13-24.
NGI (Norwegian Geotechnical Institute). 2013a. Tsunami Metodology and Results Overview. Background Paper prepared for the 2013 Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction.
Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR. http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
NGI (Norwegian Geotechnical Institute). 2013b.
Landslide Hazard and Risk Assessment in El Salvador. Background Paper prepared for the 2013
Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR. http://www.
preventionweb.net/gar
Nguyen, T. 2012. Insurability of Catastrophe Risks
and Government Participation in Insurance Solutions. 	 Background Paper prepared for the 2013
Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR. http://
www.preventionweb.net/gar
Nicholls, R., Hanson, J., Herweijer, C., Patmore, N.,
Hallegatte, S., Corfee-Morlot, J., Château, J. and
Muir-Wood, R. 2008. Ranking Port Cities with High
Exposure and Vulnerability to Climate Extremes:
Exposure Estimates. OECD Environment Working
Papers, No.1, OECD Publishing. Paris, France:
OECD.	

Nomura Research Institute. 	 2011. On the promotion
of policies toward disaster reconstruction (in Japanese). http://www.nri.co.jp/opinion/r_report/
pdf/201104_fukkou9.pdf
Noy, I. 2009. The macroeconomic consequences of
disasters. Journal of Development Economics, 88
(2009): 221-231.
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development). 2007. Infrastructure to 2030 vol.2:
Mapping Policy for Electricity, Water and Transport.
Paris, France: OECD.
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development). 2008. Privatisation in the 21st Century: Recent Experiences of OECD Countries. Report on Good Practices. Paris, France: OECD.
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development). 2009. OECD Territorial Reviews:
Trans-border Urban Co-operation in the Pan Yellow
Sea Region. Paris, France: OECD.
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development). 2011. Future Global Shocks. Improving Risk Governance. OECD Review of Risk
Management, OECD Territorial Reviews. Paris,
France: OECD.
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development) and FAO (Food and Agriculture Organization). 2012. OECD-FAO Agricultural Outlook
2012-2021. OECD Publishing and FAO. Paris,	
France: OECD.
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development). 2012. OECD Roundtable of Mayors
and Ministers: Mobilising investments for urban sustainability, job creation and resilient growth. Issue
Paper. Chicago, Illinois, USA.
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development). 2013. Investment. National Accounts at a Glance 2013. Paris, France: OECD.	
Okazumi, T., Nakasu, T., Sugimoto, M.and Adakari, Y. 	
2012. Lessons Learnt from Two Unprecedented Disasters in 2011: Great East Japan Earthquake and
Tsunami in Japan and Chao Phraya River flood in
Thailand. Background Paper prepared for the
2013 Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk
Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR. http://
www.preventionweb.net/gar

Ole MoiYoi, O. 2012. Short- and Long-term Effects of
Drought on Human Health. Background Paper
prepared for the 2013 Global Assessment Report
on Disaster Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland:
UNISDR.
Oliver Wyman. 2008. Corporate Risk Case Study.
City of Chicago Climate Change Task Force. Oliver
Wyman report.
Onakuse, S. and Lenihan, E. 	 2007. Policies, programmes and sustainable development in Nigeria: a critique. Africana 2007 Vol.1: No.1, 41-58.
Orie, M. and Stahel, W.R. 2012. UNISDR Case Study
Report. Background Paper prepared for the 2013
Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR. http://
www.preventionweb.net/gar
Orihuela, J.C. 2012. Understanding Existing Methodologies for Allocating and Tracking DRR Resources
in 6 Countries in the Americas: Colombia, Costa
Rica, Guatemala, Mexico, Panama and Peru. Study
commissioned by UNISDR. Geneva, Switzerland:
UNISDR. http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
OSSO (Corporación OSSO). 2012a. La Ruralidad, la
Fragilidad Urbana y el Fenómeno La Niña en Colombia, 1971-2011. Background Paper prepared
for the 2013 Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR. http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
OSSO (Corporación OSSO). 2012b. Contribución al
análisis de riesgos en el sector rural. El caso de Colombia y la “Ola Invernal”. Background Paper prepared for the 2013 Global Assessment Report on
Disaster Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland:
UNISDR. http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
OSSO (Corporación OSSO). 2012c. Patrones en la
Configuración de Riesgos y Condiciones de Vulnerabilidad Asociados con la Ruptura de Diques en Colombia. Background Paper prepared for the 2013
Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR. http://
www.preventionweb.net/gar
Parker, M. and Steenkamp, D. 2012. The Economic
Impact of the Canterbury Earthquakes. Reserve
Bank of New Zeland, Bulletin, Vol.75. No.3 September 2012.
cclxxiii

Patra, J. 	 2012. Coasts, Ports and Communities: The
Emerging Dynamics of Investment-Risk Interactions
in Odisha, India. Background Paper prepared for
the 2013 Global Assessment Report on Disaster
Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR.
Coasts, Ports and Communities. Odisha, India.
Pennington-Gray, L., Thapa, B., Kaplanidou, K., Cahyanto, I. and McLaughlin, E. 2011. Crisis Planning
and Preparedness in the United States Tourism
Industry. Cornell Hospitality Quarterly, 52(3): 312320.
Perch-Nielsen, S. L. 2009. The vulnerability of beach
tourism to climate change. An index approach.
Climatic Change 100: 579–606.
Petherick, A. 2012. Dirty Money. Nature Climate
Change Vol 2, February 2012: 72-73.	
Porter, M. and Kramer, M. 2006. Strategy and society. The link between competitive advantage and
corporate social responsibility. Harvard Business
Review, 84(12): 78–85.
Porter, M. and Kramer, M. 2011. Creating shared value. Harvard Business Review, 89(1/2): 62–77. 	
Pretty, J. 2006. Agro-ecological approaches to agricultural development. Background Paper for the
World Development Report 2008. Rimisp-Latin
American Center for Rural Development contribution to 2008 WDR.
PwC (PricewaterhouseCoopers). 2008. Infrastructure in India. A Vast Land of Construction Opportunity. 	 London: PricewaterhouseCoopers
PwC (PricewaterhouseCoopers). 2012. Risk in Review: Rethinking Risk Management for New Market
Realities. March 2012. London, UK. 	
PwC (PricewaterhouseCoopers). 2013. UNISDR and
PwC – Working together to reduce disaster risks.
Report prepared in the context of the 2013 Global
Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction.
Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR. http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
Rabobank. 2011. Country Report Thailand, May
2011. Rabobank Economic Research Department.
Utrecht, The Netherlands
Raisch, W., Statler, M. and Burgi, P. 2007. Mobilizing
Corporate Resources to Disasters: Toward a Program for Action. 	The International Center for Encclxxiv

References

terprise Preparedness, New York University. 	
New York, USA.
Raisch, W.G. 2007. A Missing Link Between Business
Resilience & Incentives? A New U.S. Law and Corporate Preparedness. http://www.nyu.edu/intercep/
A%20Missing%20Link%20Between%20Business
%20Resilience%20%26%20Incentives.htm.
Ranger, N. and Surminski, S. 	2011.
A preliminary
evaluation of the impact of climate change on nonlife insurance demand in the BRICS economies.
Working Paper n°72. Centre for Climate Change
Economics and Policy. Leeds and London, UK.
Ranger, N. and Williamson, S. 2011. Forecasting
non-life insurance demand in the BRICS economies:
a preliminary evaluation of the impacts of income
and climate change. Working Paper n°70. Centre
for Climate Change Economics and Policy. Leeds
and London, UK.
Renn, O. 2008. Risk Governance. Coping with Uncertainty in a Complex World. University of Stuttgart:
Earthscan.
Ritter, J.R. 2004. Economic growth and equity returns. EFA 2005 Moscow Meetings. 	
Rittichainuwat, B.N. 2013. Tourists’ and Tourism
Suppliers’ Perceptions Toward Crisis Management on Tsunami. Tourism Management, Vol. 34
(31 January 2013): 112-121.
RMS (Risk Management Solutions,Inc.). 2012. Too
Early to Calculate Reliable Loss Estimates for Hurricane Sandy. Risk Management Solutions, 21 November 2012. London, UK.
Robinson, L. and Jarvie, J.K. 2008. Post-disaster
community tourism recover: the tsunami and
Arugam Bay, Sri Lanka. Disasters, Vol 32 (4): 631645.
Rondinelli, D.A. and Cheema, G.S. 2003. Reinventing
government for the 21st Century. State Capacity in
a Globalising Society. Bloomfield, CT USA: Kumarian Press.
Rosa, D. 2012. The Boxing Day tsunami and its effects on Thailand’s tourism. http://www.neumann.edu/academics/divisions/business/journal/Review2012/Rosa.pdf
Roy, A. and Ong, A. 2011. Worlding Cities. Asian Experiments and the Art of Being Global. Oxford, UK:

Blackwells.
Ruel, MT., Garrett, JL., Morris, SS., Maxwell, D., Oshaug, A., Engle, P., Menon, P., Slack, A. and Haddad, L. 	1998. Urban challenges to food and nutrition security: a review of food security, health, and
caregiving in the cities.  Food Consumption and
Nutrition Division discussion paper no. 51. Washington DC: International Food Policy Research Institute.	
Saeijs and Van Berkel. 1995. Global Water Crisis, the
Major Issue of the 21st Century, a growing and explosive problem. European Water Pollution Control, Vol. 5: Issue 4 (July 1995): 26-40.
Sarmiento, J.P., Hoberman, G., Ilcheva, M., Asgari, A.,
Majano, A.M., Poggione, S. and Duran, L.R. 2012.
Private Sector and Disaster Risk Reduction: The
Cases of Bogota, Miami, Kingston, San Jose, Santiago and Vancouver. Background Paper prepared
for the 2013 Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR.
http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
Scheyvens, R. and Russell, M. 2012. Tourism and
poverty alleviation in Fiji: Comparing the impacts
of small and large-scale tourism enterprises.
Journal of Sustainable Tourism, Vol 20, Nr. 3: 417436.	
Schoneveld, G.C. 2011. The anatomy of large-scale
farmland acquisitions in sub-Saharan Africa. Working paper 85. Bogor, Indonesia: CIFOR.	
Sekar, N.U. 2000. Decentralized Natural Resource
Management: From State to Co-management in
India. 	 Journal of Environmental Planning and
Management, 43(1): 123-138.
Sen, A. 	1981. Poverty and Famine: An Essay on Entitlement and Deprivation. Oxford, UK: Clarendon
Press/Oxford University Press.
Sengezer, B. and Koç, E. 2005. A critical analysis of
earthquakes and urban planning in Turkey. Disasters, 2005, 29 (2): 171-194.	
Simpson, M.C., Gössling, S., Scott, D., Hall, C.M. and
Gladin, E. 2008. Climate Change Adaptation and
Mitigation in the Tourism Sector: Frameworks, Tools
and Practices. UNEP, University of Oxford, UNWTO, WMO. Paris, France.	
Sirakaya, E., Sheppard, A.G. and McLellan, R.W.

1997. Assessment of the relationship between
perceived safety at a vacation site and destination choice decisions: extending the behavioral
decision-making model. Journal of Hospitality &
Tourism Research, 1997, 21(1): 1-10.
Skidmore and Toya. 2002. Do Natural Disasters
Promote Long-Run Growth? Economic Inquiry 40:
664-687.
Smolka, M.O. and Sabatini, F. 2000. The Land Market Deregulation Debate in Chile. Land Lines, January 2000, Vol.12, No.1.
SOPAC (South Pacific Applied Geoscience Commission). 2010. SOPAC Overview: Introduction to the
Applied Geoscience and Technology Division.
http://www.sopac.org/index.php/south-pacificapplied-geoscience-commission
Spielman, D.J., Kelemwork, D. and Alemu, D. 2011.
Seed, Fertilizer, and Agricultural Extension in Ethiopia. Ethiopia Strategy Support Programme II
Working Paper 020 (March 2011). Addis Ababa
and Washington: International Food Policy Research Institute.	
Sudmeier-Rieux, K., Fra Paleo, U., Garschagen, M.,
Estrella, M., Renaud, F.G. and Jaboyedoff, M. 2012.
Opportunities, Incentives and Challenges to Risk
Sensitive Land Use Planning: Lessons from Nepal,
Spain and Vietnam. Background Paper prepared
for the 2013 Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR.
http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
Swiss Re.	2008. Setting up sustainable agricultural
insurance: the case of China. Focus Report. Zurich, Switzerland.
Swiss Re.	2011a. Economics of Climate Adaptation
(ECA)-Shaping climate-resiliet development. A
framework for decision-making. A factsheet on urban
resilience. Zurich, Switzerland. http://proclimweb.
scnat.ch/portal/ressources/2611.pdf
Swiss Re. 2011b. Closing the financial gap. New partnerships between the public and private sectors
to finance disaster risks. Zurich, Switzerland.
Takagi, H., Danh Thao, N., Esteban, M., Thu Tam, T.,
Knaepen, H.L., Mikami, T. and Yamamoto, L. 2012. 	
Coastal Disaster Risk in Southern Vietnam: The
Problems of Coastal Development and the Need for
cclxxv

Better Coastal Planning. Background Paper prepared for the 2013 Global Assessment Report on
Disaster Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland:
UNISDR. http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
TEEB (The Economics of Ecosystems and Biodiversity). 	2010. Integrating the ecological and economic dimensions in biodiversity and ecosystem
service valuation. In: Kumar, P. (ed.). Ecological
and Economic Foundations, TEEB Document. London: Earthscan.
Thampanishvong, K. 2012. The Case of Thailand.
Background Paper prepared for the 2013 Global
Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction.
Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR. http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
Thomalla, F., Downing, T., Spanger-Siegfried, E., Han,
G. and Rockström, J. 2006. Reducing hazard vulnerability: towards a common approach between
disaster risk reduction and climate adaptation.
Disasters, 2006, 30 (1): 39-48.
Thompson, G. 2004. Sanitation Partnerships in Maputo, Mozambique. A case study. Draft report
available via info@bpdws.org. Short version: BPD
Water and Sanitation, “Sanitation Partnerships:
Maputo Case Study”.
Time. 2012. Hurricane Sandy Estimated to Cost $60
Billion. Time Magazine, Business & Money, 31 October 2012.
Toba, N. 	 2009. Potential Economic Impacts of Climate Change in the Caribbean Community. Latin
America and Caribbean Region Sustainable Development Working paper 32, “Assessing the Potential Consequences of Climate Destabilization
in Latin America”. World Bank. Washington DC.
USA.	
UNCTAD (United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development). 2005. Improving the Competitiveness of SMEs Through Enhancing Productive Capacity. 	United Nations. New York and Geneva.
UNCTAD (United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development). 2011. Trade and Development Report: 2011 Post-crisis Policy Challenges in the World
Economy. New York and Geneva.	
UNCTAD (United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development). 2012. World Investment Report
cclxxvi

References

2012: Towards a New Generation of Investment Policies. New York and Geneva.
UNDESA (United Nations Department of Economic
and Social Affairs). 2010. Trends in Sustainable
Development. Small Islands Developing States
(SIDS). 	United Nations publication. New York,
USA.	
UNDESA (United Nations Department of Economic
and Social Affairs). 2012. World Urbanization Prospects: The 2011 Revision Highlights. United Nations publication. New York, USA.
UNDP (United Nations Development Programme)
Informe nacional de desarrollo humano 2011. Bogotá, Colombia.
UNDP (United Nations Development Programme).
2004. Reducing Disaster Risk, a Challenge for Development. Bureau for Crisis Prevention and Recovery. New York. USA.
UNDP (United Nations Development Programme). 	
2012a. 	A Global Review: UNDP Support to Institutional and Legislative Systems for Disaster Risk
Management. UNDP. New York, USA.
UNDP (United Nations Development Programme). 	
2012b. 	Issue Brief: Disaster Risk Governance. Crisis
Prevention and Recovery. UNDP. New York, USA.
UNDP (United Nations Development Programme).
2013. Small Businesses: Impact of Disasters and
Building Resilience. Background Paper prepared
for the 2013 Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR. http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
UNEP (United Nations Environment Programme).
2008. Coastal Degradation Leaves the Caribbean
in Troubled Waters. Environment Alert Bulletin 11.
February 2008. UNEP-DEWA / GRID-Europe. Geneva, Switzerland.
UNEP FI (United Nations Environment Programme
Financial Initiative). 2002. Climate Change & the
Financial Services Industry. Module 1 – Threats and
Opportunities. Report prepared for the UNEP Finance Initiatives Climate Change Working Group
by Innovest SVA.
UNEP FI (United Nations Environment Programme
Financial Initiative). 2007. Carbon Crunch. Meeting
the Cost. Recommendations for Policy Makers.

CEObreefing series, December 2007. Geneva,
Switzerland.
UNEP FI (United Nations Environment Programme
Finance Initiative) and PRI (Principles for Responsible Investment). 2011. Universal Ownership. Why
environmental externalities matter to institutional
investors. Geneva , Switzerland: UNEP Finance Initiative and Principles for Responsible Investment.
UNEP-SOPAC (United Nations Environment Programme-South Pacific Applied Geoscience Commission). 2005. Building Resilience in SIDS: The
Environment Vulnerability Index. Nairobi, Kenya
and Suva, Fiji: UNEP and SOPAC.
UN-HABITAT (United Nations Human Settlements
Programme). 2012. State of the World’s Cities
2012/2013: Prosperity of Cities. Nairobi, Kenya.
UNISDR. 	2007. Hyogo Framework for Action 20052015. Building the Resilience of Nations and Communities to Disasters. Extract from the final report
of the World Conference on Disaster Reduction
(A/CONF.206/6). United Nations International
Strategy for Disaster Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR.
UNISDR. 	2009. Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction: Risk and poverty in a changing
climate. United Nations International Strategy for
Disaster Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR. http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
UNISDR. 	2011. Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction: Revealing Risk, Redefining Development. United Nations International Strategy
for Disaster Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland:
UNISDR. http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
UNISDR. 	2012. City Resilience in Africa: A Ten Essentials Pilot. United Nations International Strategy
for Disaster Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland:
UNISDR. http://www.preventionweb.net/gar
United Nations Secretary General. 2012. Resilient
People, Resilient Planet: A future worth choosing. 	
United Nations. High Level Panel on Global Sustainability. New York	
United Nations. 2010. Shanghai Manual. A guide for
sustainable urban development in the 21st Century.
Case Study – Disaster Risk Management, Mumbai,
India. 	 United Nations Bureau International des

Expositions, Shanghai 2010 World Exposition Executive Committee.
UNU-IHDP (United Nations University-International
Human Dimensions Programme on Global Environmental Change) and UNEP (United Nations Environmental Programme). 	2012. Inclusive Wealth
Report 2012: Measuring Progress Toward Sustainability. 	 Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
UNWTO (World Tourism Organization). 2011. Compendium of Tourism Statistics Data 2006-2010.
2011 Edition.
UNWTO (World Tourism Organization). 2012. Challenges and Opportunities for Tourism Development
in Small Island Developing States. Madrid, Spain.
UNWTO (World Tourism Organization) and UNEP
(United Nations Environement Programme). 2008. 	
Climate Change and Tourism – Responding to Global
Challenges. Madrid, Spain.
Van Baars, S. and Van Kempen, I.M. 2009. The
causes and mechanisms of Historical Dike Failures
in the Netherlands. Official Publication of the European Water Association (EWA). Delft University
of Technology. Delft, The Netherlands.
Van der Veen, A. and Logtmeijer, C. 2005. Economic
hotspots: visualising vulnerability to flooding.
Natural Hazards (2005), 36: pp. 65-80.
Vella, J. 2012. The Future of Food and Water Security
in New Egypt. Future Directions International. 	
Dalkeith, Australia.
Vitez, O. 	 2013. The Effects of Disasters on Large vs.
Small Businesses. The Houston Chronicle. Hearst
Communications Inc. http://smallbusiness.chron.
com/effects-disaster-large-vs-small-businesses-881.html.
Wang, Z., Lin, T. and Walker, G. 2009. Earthquake
Risk and Earthquake Catastrophe Insurance for the
People’s Republic of China. Sustainable Development Working Paper Series, No. 7. Manila: Asian
Development Bank.	
WAVES. 2012. Moving beyond GDP. How to factor
natural capital into economic decision making.
WAVES Partnership, June 1012. Washington:
World Bank
WBCSD (World Business Council for Sustainable Development). 2005. Facts and trends: water. Gecclxxvii

neva, 	 Switzerland.
WCMA. 	2012. ILS Market Update. Strong Momentum
Continues Into 2012 Hurrican Season. Willis Capital
Markets & Advisory, July 2012.
Webb, P., Coates, J., Frongillo, E.A., Rogers, B., Swindale, A. and Bilinsky, P. 2006.  Measuring household food insecurity: why it’s so important and yet
so difficult to do.  The Journal of Nutrition 136(5):
1404S–1408S.
Wedawatta, G., Ingirige, B. and Amaratunga, D. 2010.
Building up resilience of construction sector SMEs
and their supply chains to extreme weather
events. International Journal of Strategic Property
Management Vol.14: 362-375.
WEF (World Economic Forum). 2008. Convergence
of Insurance and Capital Markets. World Economic
Forum in collaboration with Allianz, Barclays Capital, Deloitte, State Farm, Swiss Re, Thomson Reuters, Zurich Financial Services. New York and
Geneva: World Economic Forum.
WEF (World Economic Forum). 2011. The Travel and
Tourism Competitiveness Report 2011: Beyond the
Downturn. World Economic Forum. Geneva, 	
Switzerland.
WEF (World Economic Forum). 2012. The Global
Competitiveness Report 2012-2013. World Economic
Forum. Geneva, Switzerland.
White, C. and Fan, M. 2006. Risk and Foreign Direct
Investment. Palgrave MacMillan. Basingstoke, UK.
Williams, R. 2012. The Rolling Apocalypse of Contemporary History. Chapter 1. In: Castells et al.
(eds.). Aftermath. The Cultures of the Economic Crisis. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press.
WMO (World Meteorological Organization). 2005.
Climate and Land Degradation. WMO n°. 989. 	 Geneva, Switzerland.
WMO (World Meteorological Organization). 2011.
The State of Greenhouse Gases in the Atmosphere
Based on the Global Observations through 2010.
Greenhouse Gas Bulletin. 	 Geneva, 	 Switzerland.
WMO (World Meteorological Organization). 2012.
WMO Provisional Statement on the State of Global
Climate in 2012. Geneva, Switzerland.
World Bank and UNISDR. 2010. Southeastern Europe Disaster Risk Mitigation and Adaptation Procclxxviii References

gramme. At a glance. Washington and Brussels:	
World Bank and UNISDR.	
World Bank. 1998. Export processing zones. PremNotes
Economic Policy No.11. Washington DC: World
Bank. http://www1.worldbank.org/prem/PREMNotes/premnote11.pdf
World Bank. 2004. 	Grenada, Hurricane Ivan Preliminary Assessment of Damage,September 17, 2004.
http://siteresources.worldbank.org/INTDISMGMT/Resources/grenada_assessment.pdf
World Bank. 2005. Natural Disaster Hotspots: A Global Risk Analysis. Washington DC: World Bank.
World Bank. 2008a. Rethinking Infrastructure for Development. Annual World Bank Conference on
Development Economics Global 2007. Washington DC: World Bank.
World Bank. 2008b. World Development Report 2008:
Agriculture for Development. Washington DC:
World Bank .
World Bank. 2010. Economics of Adaptation to Climate Change. Synthesis Report. Washington:
IBRD and World Bank.
World Bank. 2011. The changing Wealth of Nations :
Measuring Sustainable Development in the New
Millennium. Washington DC
World Bank. 2012a. World Development Report 2013:
Jobs. Washington DC: World Bank
World Bank. 2012b. The Sendai Report. Managing
Disaster Risks for a Resilient Future. 	Government
of Japan, GFDRR and World Bank. Washington DC
World Bank, ADB (Asian Development Bank), UN
System. 2005. Republic of Maldives, Tsunami: Impact and Recovery. Joint Needs Assessment.
Worldwatch Institute. 2012. Losses from Natural Disasters Reach Peak in 2011. http://www.worldwatch.org/losses-natural-disasters-reach-newpeak-2011.
Worrell, E., Bernstein, L., Roy, J., Price, L. and Harnish, J. 2009. Industrial energy efficiency and climate change mitigation. Energy Efficiency (2009)
2: 109-123.
Wright, N. 2013. Small Island Developing States, disaster risk management, disaster risk reduction, climate change adaptation and tourism. Background
Paper prepared for the 2013 Global Assessment

Report on Disaster Risk Reduction. Geneva, Switzerland: UNISDR. http://www.preventionweb.net/
gar
WTO (World Trade Organization). 2011. World Trade
Report 2011: The WTO and preferential trade agreements: From co-existence to coherence. Geneva,
Switzerland.
WTTC (World Travel and Tourism Council). 2012.
Travel and Tourism Economic Impact 2012. London, 	UK.
Ye, L. and Abe, M. 2012. The Impacts of Natural Disasters on Global Supply Chains. Asia-Pacific Research and Training Network on Trade. ARTNeT
Working Paper Series N°.115 / June 2012. ESCAP.
Bangkok, Thailand.
Yönder, A. and Türkoğlu, H. 2010. Post 1999 Developments in Disaster Management in Turkey: The Regulatory Frameworks and Implementation of Land
Use Planning for Disaster Risk Reduction in Istanbul. Case study prepared for 2011 Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction. Geneva,
Switzerland: UNISDR. http://www.preventionweb.
net/gar
Yumkella, K., Kormawa, P., Roepstorff, T. and
Hawkins, A. 2011. Agribusiness for Africa’s Prosperity. Vienna, Austria: UNIDO.
Zhang, X., Song, H. and Huang, G.Q. 2009. Tourism
Supply Chain Management: A New Research
Agenda. Tourism Management 30: 345-358.
Zheng, W., Yongdong, L. and Dickinson, G. 2008.
The Chinese Insurance Market: Estimating its
Long-Term Growth and Size. The Geneva Papers
on Risk and Insurance, 33: 489-506.	

cclxxix

Index
UN list of country names and territories
A
Albania

88

Colombia 			 28, 29, 35, 69, 70, 76, 80, 81, 82, 94, 133, 189,

Algeria

88, cclv

			

222, 225, 227, 230, ccl, ccliii, ccliv

Americas

iv, v, xviii, 29,184, 228, cclxxiii

Comoros

88, ccliii

American Samoa

65, 76, 107

Cook Islands

65, 76, 150, ccliii

Angola

88

Costa Rica 			 29, 33, 35, 76, 189, 218, 224, 225, ccl, ccli, cclii,

Anguilla

88, 150, 222, ccliii

	

ccliii, cclv

Antigua and Barbuda

88,

Croatia

ccliii, ccliv

Argentina

88, 156, ccliii

Cuba

88

Armenia

ccliii

Czech Republic

88, ccliii

Aruba

88

						

Australia 				 50, 64, 65, 88, 94, 95, 160, 200, 220, 231, 233,

D

				

ccli, cclii, ccliii, ccliv, cclv, cclvi, cclxv, cclxxvii

Democratic Republic of 	

Austria

ccli, cclv

the Congo

88						

						

Djibouti

xviii, 72, 76, 88, ccliii

B

			

Dominica

88, 106

Bahrain

222, ccliii

Dominican Republic

80, ccliii

Bangladesh

48, 126, 127, 129, 212, 230, ccliii

Barbados

109, 143, ccl, ccliii

E

Belarus

ccliii

East Timor

76

Belgium

40, 88, 104

Ecuador

76, 88, 138, cclii, ccliii

Belize

61, 88

Egypt

164, 165, cclxxvii

Bhutan

80, 138, 139

El Salvador

71, 76, 81, 88, ccli, cclii, ccliii

Bolivia

76, 88, ccliii

Ethiopia 				 vii, xviii, 72, 76, 88, 98, 102, 161, 162, 165, 167,

Bolivia (Plurinational State of) 76, 88
Bosnia and Herzegovina

				

212, 225, 226, ccl, ccliii

96

F

						

British Virgin Islands

88, ccliii

Fiji 				

76, 113, 144, 145, 147, 148, 149, 150, ccliii

Brunei Darussalam

88

Finland

ccliii

Bulgaria

ccliii

France

ii, 182, 206, ccli, ccliii, cclv

Burkina Faso

212, ccliii

French Polynesia

64, 76, 88

Burundi

88

Brazil

				
G

C

Georgia

65, 88, ccli, ccliii

Cambodia

ccliii, cclx

Germany

31, 88, 186, 213, ccli, ccliii, ccliv

Canada 			

viii, 35, 159, 189, 194, 220, 230, cclii, ccliii

Ghana

69, 88, 161, 162, ccli, ccliii

Cape Verde

69, 88, 143

Gibraltar

88

Cayman Islands

88, 106, cclx

Greece

88, 98, ccliii

Central African Republic

88

Grenada

88, 144, 147

Chile

35, 128, 189, ccliii, cclxxv

Guadeloupe

61, 88, 106

China 				 iv, vi, 30, 31, 35, 44, 48, 56, 57, 58, 61, 62, 63, 80,

Guam

65, 76

					
81, 88, 104, 123, 142, 158, 174, 202, 204, 213,

Guatemala 			 75, 76, 88, 218, 220, ccliii, Guyana xviii, 72, 76,

			

	

cclxxx

Index

216, 217, 221, ccli, ccliii

88, ccliii

H

Madagascar 		

46, 83, 84, 87, 161, 162, cclxvii

Haiti

46, 57, 58, 88, 195

Malawi

88, 98, 167, ccliii

Honduras 		

v, xviii, 72, 73, 75, 76, 81, 82, 83, 85, 87, 88, ccliii

Malaysia

30, 35, 88, ccliii

Hong Kong

57, 58, 61, 63, 88, 104, 216

Maldives

63, 106, 107, 143, 144, 147, 149, ccliii

Hungary

ccliii

Mali

xviii, 72, 76, 88, 100, 161, ccliv

					

Mariana Islands

65, 76,

Marshall Islands

76, 227, ccliii,

Martinique

61, 88,

India 				 iv, vii, 30, 48, 65, 87, 94, 123, 131, 134, 142, 158,

Mauritius

230, ccliii

					
164, 170, 174, 213, 217, 218, 219, 222, ccl, ccli,

Mayotte 		

88

				

cclii, ccliii, cclv

Mexico 				 viii, 61, 75, 80 - 82, 85, 88, 91, 159, 184, 204, 206,

Indonesia 		

30, 62, 64, 88, 166, 195, 218, 221, 222, 231, 233, ccliii

				

218, 220 - 222, 226, 227, ccl-cclv	

Iran

56, 57, 58, 88, ccliii, ccliv

Micronesia

76, 88, 104, ccliii,

Iraq

88

Monaco

88, ccliii,

Ireland

63, 88, ccliii

Mongolia

88,

Israel

ccliv

Montenegro

88,

Italy 			

88, 98, 118, 129, ccl, ccli, cclii, ccliii, ccliv, cclv

Morocco 			

ccliii,

						

Mozambique 	

v, 69, 73, 78, 81, 88, 98, 102, 103, 161, ccliv

J

					

Myanmar

88, 213, ccliii,

Jamaica

35, 72, 76, 111, 112, 189, ccliii

I
Iceland

30

xviii,

		

Japan				
ii, iii, iv, vii, xv, xx, 23, 24, 25, 26, 30, 31, 32, 33, 35,

N

						

					
48, 50, 52, 55, 56, 57, 61, 62, 63, 64, 81, 87, 133,

Namibia

88, 225

					
135, 183, 189, 196, 201, 204, 217, 220, 228, 229,

Nauru

65, 76, ccliii

			

235, ccl, ccliii, ccliv, cclv, cclvi

Nepal

85, 88, cclii, ccliv

Jordan

ccliii

Netherlands

65, 133, 140, 203, ccliii

						

New Caledonia 	

76, 88

New Zealand 	

iii, viii, 30, 32, 33, 50, 139, 203, 204, ccli- ccliii

Nicaragua

xviii, 72, 76, 81, 88, ccliv

Kenya 				 xviii, 69, 72, 76, 97, 98, 99, 100, 102, 166, 167,

Niger

88, 98, 102 - 104, 166, 167, ccliii

				

168, 195, ccli, cclii, ccliii, ccliv, cclv

Nigeria

93, 127, 166

Kiribati

76, ccliii, cclxxxi

Niue

65, 76, 213, ccliii

Korea, Republic of

24, 88, 139, ccliii

Northern Mariana Islands 65, 76

K
Kazakhstan

156, ccliii

Norway

2, 204, ccli - ccliii, cclvi

O

						

Oman

63, 88

L
Lao People’s 	

xviii, 72, 73, 74, 76, 88, ccliii, cclxx, cclxxxi		

Democratic Republic
Lebanon

xviii, 72, 73, 74, 76, cclii, ccliii, cclv

Lesotho

213, ccliii

P

Liberia

161, 162

Pakistan

iii, 26, 87, 94, 213, ccliii

Libya

88

Palau

76, 88, ccliii

Liechtenstein

88

Panama 				 88, 134, 135, 140, 218, 220, 224, 233, cclii, ccliii,
ccliv

M

Papua New Guinea

56, 76, 88, 212, ccliii,

Macao (Special Administrative	 62						
Peru 			

76, 218, 222, 224, 225, ccliii, cclxxiii,

Region of China)

Philippines 		

30, 52, 56, 57, 61, 80, 85, 87, 218, 221, 231

Pitcairn Islands

76

Poland

ccliii

Macedonia (The former	
Yugoslav Republic of)

98, ccliv, cclxxxi			

cclxxxi

Portugal

98, ccliii

Puerto Rico

52, 61, 88, 104, 109

R

Tuvalu

76, ccliii

						
U

			

Uganda 			

xviii, 72, 73, 76, 98, 100, 104, ccliii, ccliv

Réunion

88

Ukraine

88, 156

Romania

65, ccliii

United Arab Emirates

88

Russian Federation

88, 156, 159, 160, ccliv

United Kingdom of Great	

30, 63, 88, 129, 130, 134, 197, ccl, ccli, ccliii	

Rwanda

88, 212, ccliii

Britain and Northern Ireland 	
United Republic of Tanzania 69, 88, ccliii

S

United States of America 		 xv, 27, 30, 35, 44, 48, 52, 56, 57, 61, 63, 64, 81,

Saint Kitts and Nevis

ccliii

					
87, 88, 94, 95, 127, 137, 144, 148, 158 - 160, 166,

Saint Lucia

88

					
189, 192, 194, 201, 206, 219, 222, 225, 229, 230,

Samoa

61, 76, 88, 106, 107, 144, ccliii

				

San Marino

88

United States Virgin Islands 88

Sao Tome and Principe

88

Uruguay

xviii, 72, 76, 88, 213, ccliii, ccliv

Saudi Arabia

88

Uzbekistan

88

Senegal

69, 88, 222, cclii

Serbia

88, 98, 128, ccliii

V

Sierra Leone

46

Vanuatu

56, 76, 88, 106, 225, ccliii

Slovenia

ccliii

Venezuela

76, 88, ccliv

Solomon Islands

57, 63, 76, 88, 106, 107, 110, ccliii

Viet Nam

72, 76, 88, 128, 146, 147, ccliv

South Africa

198

South Sudan

161

W

Spain

57, 58, 88, 98, 101, ccl

Wallis and Futuna Islands 76

Sri Lanka

76, 145, 220, ccliii, ccliv

State of Palestine

212, ccliii

Y

Sudan

88, 98, 161

Yemen

Suriname

88

Swaziland

88

Z

Sweden

88, 139, 194, 220, ccliii

Zambia

161

Switzerland

ii, 31, 88, 222, ccl - ccliii, cclv

Zimbabwe

88

Syrian Arab Republic

88, 102, ccl, ccliv

236, ccliii, cclvi

88, ccliv

T
Taiwan (Province of China), 88, cclv

agribusiness			 vii, xix, 34, 50, 90, 94, 104, 118, 119, 151-154,

Tajikistan

				

88

160, 162-165, 168, 170-173, 197, 240

Thailand 				 iii, vi, xv, 25, 30, 31, 33, 35, 49, 50, 54, 149, 165,

annual average loss (AAL)		 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 75, 76, 79, 80, 81,

				

195 - 198, 204, 214 - 216, 222, 235, cclii

				

98, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 113, 122, 217, ccxlix

Timor-Leste

xviii, 65, 72, 76, ccliv

business continuity	

v, ix, 183-187, 189, 200, 204, 239, ccxlix

Togo

ccliii

capital stock			 25, 35, 39, 42, 45, 52, 63, 80, 81, 114, 236, ccxl-

Tokelau

65, 76

Tonga

76, 88, 107, 110, 150, ccliii

climate change		 iii, xiii, xv, xvii, 48, 49, 50, 90-92, 100, 101, 106, 109,

Trinidad and Tobago

111, ccliii

					
112, 113, 130, 135, 136, 138, 143, 162, 163, 165, 186,

Tunisia

88

				

Turkey

88, 98, 129, ccliii

corrective risk management 222, 224, 225, ccxlix

Turkmenistan

88

cyclone wind (see also

v, vii, 45, 52, 58-61, 65, 79, 80, 81, 91, 92, 106,

Turks and Caicos Islands

88, 106, ccliii

cyclonic wind)	

107, 109-111, 122

cclxxxii

Index

viii, ccxlix

193, 195, 197, 203, 221, 225, 236, 243-245, ccxlviii

Disaster Deficit Index (DDI)	 84, 85				

probability	 		 49, 52, 53, 57, 62, 64, 78, 98, 102-104, 130, 195,

direct losses	 		 iv, 23-30, 34, 35, 38, 39, 78, 86, 87, 90, 102, 109,
					
118, 136, 139, 143, 144, 162, 185, 221, 232,

207, 226, ccxlviii, ccxlix
produced capital		 42-47, 52, 53, 55-58, 60-63, 65, 69, 80, 90, 93,

ccxlviii
drought				
v, vii, 34, 35, 39, 68, 90-92, 94, 97-104, 109, 152,
					 159-167, 170, 172, 194, 195, 197, 218, 221, 227,
				

236, ccxlviii

94, 106-109, 111, 122, 148, ccxlix
prospective (disaster) risk 188, 210, 218, 220, 224, 225, 228, 229, 230, ccxlix	
management		

	

resilience	 			 vi-ix, xv-xix, 29, 34, 39, 49, 69, 77-81, 106, 109,

earthquake			iii-vii, xv, xvi, 23-26, 30-34, 39, 42, 44, 46, 47, 52,

					
112, 114, 124, 135, 138, 142, 148, 149, 152, 160,

					
53, 55-58, 61, 62, 64, 79-81, 85, 106-113, 118,

					
166, 168-173, 178, 179, 183, 195, 200, 220, 225,

					
122, 131, 132, 135, 137, 139, 183, 187, 189, 198,

					
226, 228, 230, 232, 235-237, 239, 240, 245, 246,

					
201-204, 206, 207, 222, 227-229, 231, 232, 235,

ccxlviii

				

236, ccxlviii, ccxlix

return period	 		 45, 53, 55, 58-60, 62-65, 68, 71, 75, 80, 83, 84,

economic resilience	

78, 81, 106, 109, 112, 138

					
98, 108, 109, 114, 125, 130, 131, 133, 147, 150,

extensive risk	

26, 34, 39, 68-76, 122, 133 179, 235, ccxlviii

financing gap	

v, 81-86, 112, 226

flood	

			 iii, v, vi, xv, xviii, 24-28, 30, 31, 33, 34, 39, 44-46,

ccxlix
risk financing		

78, 82, 84, 202, 219, 224, 226, 227

risk governance		 viii, ix, xiv, 135, 177, 179, 182, 186, 202, 209, 210,

					
48-50, 54, 55, 58, 65, 68, 69, 83, 85, 91, 106-

				

					
109, 114, 127-140, 144-147, 160, 162, 164,165,

Risk Reduction Index (RRI) 46, 93, 104

					
169, 170, 178, 186, 187, 195-198, 200-204, 206,

risk transfer		

					
215-218, 220, 221, 225, 232, 233, 235, 236, 245,

Special Economic Zone (SEZ) vi, 216, 242

food security	 	

xvi, 49, 82, 90, 91, 113, 131, 165, 219, 224

ccxlviii

shared risk			 xv, xvi, xix, 49, 50, 90, 91, 118, 126, 127, 133-135,

90, 119, 151-153, 156, 163, 165-169

				

foreign direct Investment (FDI) xix, 33, 43, 44, 196, 204, 214-217, 238, 245, 246
global risk model	

216, 217, 228-230, 238, 242, 243, ccxlix

	iii, xvii, 34, 39, 45, 52-60, 63, 79, 80, 106-108,
110, 111, 241

gross capital fixed formation	 xiv, xx, 25, 35, 65, 75, 76, 78, 79, 81, 86, 88, 110,
111, 217, ccxlix

179, 185, 194, 235, 236, 239, 243-245

shared value	 		 xiii, xv-xvii, xix, 34, 50, 119, 170, 171, 178, 179,
235, 239, 245, 246
small and medium

25, 26, 28, 31-34,49, 76, 118, 130, 145, 184, 186,

enterprise (SME) 	

189, 230, 240, 243 	

tourism	

			 vii, xix, 34, 35, 44, 109, 118, 142 - 150, 162, 215,

Hyogo Framework for Action xiii, xiv, xviii, 46, 129, 150, 153, 210-214, 217-

240, 245

(HFA)			

222, 224-226, 228, 230, 231, 243, 246

toxic assets	

hidden risks		

vi, 41, 192-194, 197, 235

tsunami	

v, 235, 236

			 iii, iv, xvi, 24, 25, 30 - 34, 39, 42, 44, 52, 55, 61 -

indirect losses		 23-27, 29, 30, 33, 35, 39, 52, 56, 69, 76, 78, 86,

					
65, 106 - 108, 113, 114, 122, 133, 139, 143 - 145,

				

102, 109, 143, 144, 185, 221

				

147, 149, 150, 198, 204, 206, 236, ccxlviii, ccxlix

intangible capital	

42, 245, ccxlix

underlying risk drivers	

xiii, xiv, xvii, 46, 68, 163, 213, 239, ccxlviii

intensive risk	 		 51, 52, 68, 73, 75, 122, 125, 133, 204, 206, ccxl-

urban development		 xv, xix, 34, 43, 46, 49, 50, 68, 92, 118, 122 - 131,

viii

				

land degradation	

v, 33, 39, 90, 94, 96, 98, 101, 102, 158, 162, 163

urban produced capital		 52, 53, 55 - 58, 60, 61, 63, 65, 106 - 109, 122,

landslide			

v, xv, 25, 39, 68, 69, 71, 129, 198, 227, ccxlviii

macroeconomic effects	

23, 24, 35, 56, 78, 86, 88, ccxlviii

value chain		

119, 153, 154, 170, 192, 193

Millennium Development

xiii, xx, 114, 133			

virtual water	

164, 174

Goals (MDGs)

133 - 135, 139, 162, 221, 225, 229, 236, 240, 245

ccxlix

vulnerability			 xvii, 30, 42, 45, 46 - 48, 50, 52, 53, 54, 56, 57, 58,

national revenue	

80, 88

					
61, 63, 68, 69, 80, 83, 85, 90, 92, 112, 113, 119,

natural capital	

	 v, 34, 39, 42, 88, 89-98, 101, 102, 104, 162, 163,

					
136, 142, 143, 150, 166, 167, 170, 183, 186, 202,

171, 198, 216, 244, 245, ccxlix

				

221, 227 - 232, 236, 238, 240, ccxlviii

52, 53, 54, 57, 58, 60, 61, 80, 85, 107, 233, ccxlix	

water risks		

cclxxxiii

(PML) 	

wider impacts	

23, 24, 31, 33, 35, 78, 87, 144, 200, ccxlviii

public-private partnership	 133, 134, 139, 140, 162, 170, 182, 201, 203-205,

wild (land) fires	

v, 34, 39, 68, 90 - 92, 94 - 97, 102

probable maximum loss

(PPP)	

227-230 232, 243

cclxxxiii

GAR2013 products
• The Pocket GAR provides the main evidence and messages of the report in a concise, easy-touse format.
• The main report contains enhanced content links which provide access to dynamic maps,
videos, photos, and case studies for users with smartphones and tablets.
• Tablet computer and smartphone users can also enjoy the GAR for Tangible Earth (GfT) free
application. GfT, or “gift”, is a fully interactive stand-alone application, which features a 3D
globe interface that contains decades of dynamic earth science data sets, including disaster
events from all GARs. These data sets are illustrated with interactive risk scenarios, maps, and
photos and are searchable by time (including real-time), place, risk driver, hazard, disaster
event, and more.
• GAR2013 is also available as a fully interactive web version, with much of the functionality
available in products such as:
The main report (PDF) in French, Spanish and Arabic
Interactive main report in English
Appendices
Background papers
Interim national progress reports on the implementation of the Hyogo Framework
for Action
Access to disaster loss and risk databases
All GAR2013 products can be accessed via:

www.preventionweb.net/gar/

