The Report maps out major policy steps to promote a new type of city – the city of the 21st century – that
is a ‘good’, people-centred city. One that is capable of integrating the tangible and more intangible aspects
of prosperity, and in the process shedding off the inefficient, unsustainable forms and functionalities of the
city of the previous century. By doing this, UN-Habitat plays a pivotal role in ensuring that urban planning,
legal, regulatory and institutional frameworks become instruments of prosperity and well-being.

United Nations Human Settlements
Programme (UN-HABITAT)
P.O. Box 30030, Nairobi, Kenya
Tel: +254 20 7621 234
Fax: +254 20 7624 266/7

EN
VIR
ON
M

F LIF E
TY O

A LI

ITY

The Report advocates for the need of cities to enhance the public realm, expand public goods and
consolidate rights to the ‘commons’ for all as a way to expand prosperity. This comes in response to
the observed trend of enclosing or restricting these goods and commons in enclaves of prosperity, or
depleting them through unsustainable use.

PROSPERITY

C TIV

What this new edition of State of the World’s Cities shows is that prosperity for all has been
compromised by a narrow focus on economic growth. UN-Habitat suggests a fresh approach to
prosperity beyond the solely economic emphasis, including other vital dimensions such as quality of
life, adequate infrastructures, equity and environmental sustainability. The Report proposes a new
tool – the City Prosperity Index – together with a conceptual matrix, the Wheel of Prosperity, both of
which are meant to assist decision makers to design clear policy interventions.

I

PROD U

However, when prosperity is restricted to some groups, when it is used to pursue specific interests, or
when it is a justification for financial gains for the few to the detriment of the majority, the city becomes
the arena where the right to shared prosperity is claimed and fought for. As people in the latter part
of 2011 gathered in Cairo’s Tahrir Square, in Madrid’s Puerta del Sol, in front of London’s St Paul’s
cathedral, or in New York’s Zuccotti Park, they were not only demanding more equality and inclusion;
they were also expressing the need for prosperity to be shared across all segments of society.

EQUI
TY A
ND
SO
CI
AL

QU

The City is the Home of Prosperity. It is the place where human beings find satisfaction of basic needs
and access to essential public goods. The city is also where ambitions, aspirations and other material
and immaterial aspects of life are realized, providing contentment and happiness. It is a locus at
which e prospects of prosperity and individual and collective well-being can be increased.

ITY
ABIL
N
I
TA
US
S
L
TA
N
E

N
SIO
LU
NC

Prosperity of Cities

STATE OF THE WORLD’S CITIES 2012/2013 Prosperity of Cities

STATE OF THE
WORLD’S CITIES
2012/2013

IN F R A S T R U C T U R E

STATE OF THE
WORLD’S CITIES
2012/2013
Prosperity of Cities

World Urban
Forum Edition

STATE OF THE
WORLD’S CITIES
2012/2013
Prosperity of Cities

Copyright © United Nations Human Settlements Programme, 2012.
All rights reserved
United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-HABITAT)
P.O. Box 30030, Nairobi, Kenya
Tel: +254 20 7621 234
Fax: +254 20 7624 266/7
Website: www.unhabitat.org

DISCLAIMER
This is a World Urban Forum edition of the State of the World’s
Cities Report 2012/2013: Prosperity of Cities. The final edition
will include the foreword by the Secretary General of the United
Nations, maps, bibliography, index and all illustrative text boxes.
The designations employed and the presentation of the material in
this report do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever
on the part of the Secretariat of the United Nations concerning
the legal status of any country, territory, city or area, or of its
authorities, or concerning delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries,
or regarding its economic system or degree of development. The
analysis, conclusions and recommendations of this reports do
not necessarily reflect the views of the United Nations Human
Settlements Programme or its Governing Council.
The Report is produced with official data provided by governments
and additional information gathered by the Global Urban
Observatory. Cities and countries are invited to update data relevant
to them. It is important to acknowledge that data varies according
to definition and sources. While UN-HABITAT checks data provided
to the fullest extent possible, the responsibility for the accuracy
of the information lies with the original providers of the data.
Information contained in this Report is provided without warranty
of any kind, either express or implied, including, without limitation,
warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose and
noninfringement. UN-HABITAT specifically does not make any
warranties or representations as to the accuracy or completeness
of any such data. Under no circumstances shall UN-HABITAT be
liable for any loss, damage, liability or expense incurred or suffered
that is claimed to have resulted from the use of this Report,
including, without limitation, any fault, error, omission with respect
thereto. The use of this Report is at the User’s sole risk. Under no
circumstances, including, but not limited to negligence, shall UNHABITAT or its affiliates be liable for any direct, indirect, incidental,
special or consequential damages, even if UN-HABITAT has been
advised of the possibility of such damages.

Design and layout by Bounford.com, Cambridge, UK.
Printed and bound in Malta by Progress Press Ltd.
The paper used for this book is FSC-certified. FSC (the Forest
Stewardship Council) is an international network to promote
responsible management of the world’s forests.

Front cover pictures
Equity and Social Inclusion: © Meunierd/Shutterstock.com
Quality of Life: © 2012 Peter Herbert/fotoLIBRA.com
Infrastructure: © Paul Smith/Panos Pictures
Productivity: © Atul Loke/Panos Pictures
Environmental Sustainability: © Anne-Britt Svinnset/Shutterstock.com
Back cover picture
© Claudio Zaccherini/Shutterstock.com
Part One pictures
Page 8: © Ragma Images/Shutterstock.com
Page 10: © Denis Mironov/Shutterstock.com
Page 25: © Christian Als/Panos Pictures
Part Two pictures
Page 34: © Joyfull/Shutterstock.com
Page 36: © Claudio Zaccherini/Shutterstock.com
Page 48: © Philip Lange/Shutterstock.com
Page 59: © Philip Lange/Shutterstock.com
Page 68: © Clive Shirley/Panos Pictures
Page 78: © Edwina Sassoon/fotoLIBRA.com
Part Three pictures
Page 88: © Steve Forrest/Panos Pictures
Page 90: © Denis Mironov/Shutterstock.com
Page 103: © Chris Stowers/Panos Pictures

Contents
Foreword	iv
Introduction	v
Acknowledgements	vi

Part One: Prosperity and Urban Trends	

8

Conceptualizing Urban Prosperity	

10

Urban and Regional Trends	

25

Urban Change in Developed Countries	

25

Urban Change in Developing Countries	

28

Part Two: Prosperity of Cities	

34

Productivity and the Prosperity of Cities	

36

Urban Infrastructure: Bedrock of Prosperity	

48

Quality of Life and Urban Prosperity 	

59

Equity and the Prosperity Of Cities	

68

Environmental Sustainability and the Prosperity of Cities	

78

Part Three: Policies for Prosperous Cities	
From Comparative Advantage to Urban Prosperity	

88
90

Policy-Related Factors Underlying the Prosperity of Cities	
Innovating to Support the Transition to the City of the 21st Century	

92
103

Urban Prosperity Through Planning and Design	

108

Empowering Laws and Institutions for Urban Prosperity	

114

Statistical Annex	

122

iii

Foreword
This is a time of crises. This
is also a time for solutions.
Indeed, the world is
currently engulfed in waves
of financial, economic,
environmental, social and
political crises. Amidst
the turmoil, however, we
are also witnessing valiant
and creative attempts at
different levels and by different actors to seek for solutions.
The State of the World’s Cities Report 2012 presents,
with compelling evidence, some of the underlying factors
behind these crises that have strongly impacted on cities.
It shows that a lopsided focus on purely financial prosperity
has led to growing inequalities between rich and poor,
generated serious distortions in the form and functionality
of cities, also causing serious damage to the environment –
not to mention the unleashing of precarious financial
systems that could not be sustained in the long run.
The Report proposes a fresh approach to prosperity,
one that is holistic and integrated and which is essential for
the promotion of a collective well-being and fulfilment of
all. This new approach does not only respond to the crises
by providing safeguards against new risks, but it also helps
cities to steer the world towards economically, socially,
politically and environmentally prosperous urban futures.
In order to measure present and future progress of cities
towards the prosperity path, the Report introduces a new
tool – the City Prosperity Index – together with a conceptual
matrix, the Wheel of Prosperity, both of which are meant to
assist decision makers to design clear policy interventions.
To varying degrees of intensity, cities have been hit by
different crises. However, this Report tells us that cities can
also be a remedy to the regional and global crises. When
supported by different tiers of government, and in the quest
to generate holistic prosperity, cities can become flexible
and creative platforms to address these crises in a pragmatic
and efficient manner. Prosperity, in this sense, can be
seen as a Pharmakon – both a cause of the problem and a
remedy. As per this ancient Greek construct, when used
properly, it can help decision-makers to steer cities towards
well-balanced and harmonious development.

In this Report, UN-Habitat advocates for a new type of
city – the city of the 21st century – that is a ‘good’, peoplecentred city, one that is capable of integrating the tangible
and more intangible aspects of prosperity, and in the process
shedding off the inefficient, unsustainable forms and
functionalities of the city of the previous century. By doing
this, UN-Habitat plays a pivotal role in ensuring that urban
planning, legal, regulatory and institutional frameworks
become an instrument of prosperity and well-being.
This is a time of solutions to the numerous challenges
that confront today’s cities. If we are to take measures that
will make a difference to the lives of the billions of people in
the world’s cities, and to future generations, we need sound
and solid knowledge and information. This Report provides
some of these crucial ingredients. I am confident that it will
serve as a useful tool in the necessary redefinition of the
urban policy agenda at local, national and regional levels.
I do believe also that it will provide valuable insights in the
search for urban prosperity and related policy changes in
the years ahead.
The Report is a bridge between research and policy,
with inputs from more than 50 cities, individual scientists
and institutions, particularly the Directorate-General for
Regional Policy from the European Commission, and other
partner institutions around the world that participated
actively in the preparation of this study. I would like to thank
them for their immense contribution. I would also like to
thank the Government of Norway for its financial support.
The partnerships that have evolved during the
preparation of this report are part and parcel of, as well as
critically essential in, creating the building blocks of a more
sustainable prosperity, one that is shared by all. UN-Habitat
is determined to sustain and consolidate such partnerships
as we collectively chart a better future.

Joan Clos
Under-Secretary-General,
United Nations Executive Director, UN-Habitat

iv

Introduction
As the world moves into the urban age, the dynamism and
intense vitality of cities become even more prominent.
A fresh future is taking shape, with urban areas around
the world becoming not just the dominant form of habitat
for humankind, but also the engine-rooms of human
development as a whole.
This ongoing evolution can be seen as yet another
assertion, albeit on a larger scale, of the time-honoured role
of cities as centres of prosperity. In the 21st as in much earlier
centuries, people congregate in cities to realize aspirations and
dreams, fulfil needs and turn ideas into realities.
Prosperity in this broader, organic sense transcends
narrow economic success to encompass a socially broadbased, balanced and resilient type of development that
combines tangible and more intangible aspects. Taken in
this multi-dimensional sense, urban prosperity tightens the
links between individuals and society with their everyday
environment, i.e., the city itself. Amidst multiple challenges
facing cities today, a focus on poverty reduction and/or
responses to the economic crisis is gradually shifting to a
broader and more general understanding of the need to
harness the transformative dynamics and potentials which, to
varying degrees, characterize any city anywhere in the world.
How to rekindle momentum, optimize regenerating
potential, enhance strategic position in the international
business sphere, polishing both image and appeal – in other
words, how to foster prosperity – has become the main
thrust behind urban development. In this endeavour, every
city will inevitably find itself on its own specific and unique
historic course. Still, a common set of conditions can be
found prevailing in all cities, which enable human beings to
flourish, feel fulfilled and healthy, and where business can
thrive, develop and generate more wealth. These conditions
mark out the city as the privileged locus of prosperity, where
advancement and progress come to materialize.
This Report focuses on the notion of prosperity and
its realisation in urban areas. More specifically, this Report
advocates a shift in attention around the world in favour of a
more robust notion of development – one that looks beyond
the narrow domain of economic growth that has dominated
ill-balanced policy agendas over the last decades.
The gist of this Report is the need for transformative
change towards people-centred, sustainable urban
development, and this is what a revised notion of prosperity
can provide. This focus on prosperity comes as institutional
and policy backgrounds are in a state of flux around the

world. Prosperity may appear to be a misplaced concern
in the midst of multiple crises –financial, economic,
environmental, social or political – that afflict the world
today. It may appear as a luxury in the current economic
predicament. However, what this Report shows with
compelling evidence is that the current understanding
of prosperity needs to be revised, and with it the policies
and actions deployed by public authorities. UN-Habitat
suggests a fresh approach to prosperity, one that reaches
beyond the sole economic dimension to take in other vital
dimensions such as quality of life, infrastructures, equity and
environmental sustainability. The Report introduces a new
statistical instrument, the City Prosperity Index, measuring
the prosperity factors at work in an individual city, together
with a general matrix, the Wheel of Urban Prosperity, which
suggests areas for policy intervention.
As the privileged locus of prosperity, the city remains best
placed to deal pragmatically with some of the new, postcrisis challenges. With adequate backing from higher tiers of
government, the city appears as a flexible, operational, creative
platform for the development of collaborative agendas and
strategies for local responses to the global crisis.
Cities can offer remedies to the worldwide crises – if
only we put them in better positions to respond to the
challenges of our age, optimizing resources and harnessing the
potentialities of the future. This is the ‘good’, people-centred
city, one that is capable of integrating the tangible and more
intangible aspects of prosperity- in the process shedding the
inefficient, unsustainable forms and functionalities of the
previous century or so – the city of the 21st century.
This Report comes at a transitional juncture in the
international agenda: in the wake of the ‘Rio + 20’ conference
on the environment and development, and ahead of a fresh,
updated Habitat Agenda due in 2016 (Habitat III). Against
this background, this UN-Habitat Report calls on countries
and cities to engage with a fresher notion of prosperity in their
respective agendas. Prosperity involves a degree of confidence
in the foreseeable future. As the world recovers from one of
its worst-ever economic crises and a variety of interrelated
predicaments, we must find a new sense of balance and
safeguard against risks of further turmoil. With dominant
roles in economic, political and social life cities remain critical
to setting our nations on a more inclusive, productive, creative
and sustainable course.

v

Acknowledgements
Core Team

Support Team

Director: Oyebanji O. Oyeyinka

Contributors: Wandia Seaforth, Obas John Ebohon,
Cecilia M. Zanetta, Kaushalesh Lal, Dina K. Shehayeb,
Olumuyiwa Alaba, Sai Balakrishnan, Maria Buhigas,
Christopher Horwood

Coordinator: Eduardo López Moreno
Task Manager: Ben C. Arimah
Statistical Adviser: Gora Mboup

Statistics: Omondi Odhiambo, Joel Jere, Julius Majale,
Wandia Riunga, John Obure, Anne Kibe, Wladimir Ray, Kaushalesh Lal

Principal Authors: Eduardo López Moreno,
Ben C. Arimah, Gora Mboup, Mohamed Halfani, Oyebanji O. Oyeyinka

Maps: Maharufa Hossain, Jane Arimah

Research: Raymond Otieno Otieno, Gianluca Crispi, Anne Amin

Administrative Support Team: Beatrice Bazanye, Anne Idukitta,
Elizabeth Kahwae, Jacqueline Macha, Mary Dibo

City Prosperity Index: Gora Mboup, Wandia Riunga, John Obure
Editor: Thierry Naudin

UN-HABITAT advisory and Technical Support

Africa: Femi Olokesusi (Accra, Ibadan and Lagos);Yeraswork Admassie
(Addis Ababa); Hany M. Ayad (Alexandria); Madani Safar Zitoun (Algiers);
Albino Mazembe (Beira); Aldo Lupala (Dar es Salaam); Faustin Tirwirukwa
Kalabamu (Gaborone); Rosemary Awuor Hayanga (Johannesburg);
Allan Cain (Luanda); Godfrey Hampwaye and Wilma Nchito (Lusaka);
Alfred Omenya (Nairobi); C. Fernandez (Praia)

Elkin Velasquez, Laura Petrella, José Chong, Claudio Acioly, John Hogan,
Raf Tuts, Ana Moreno, Alioune Badiane, Mariam Yunusa, Roi Chiti, Axumite
Gebre-Egziabher, Kibe Muigai.

International Advisory Board
Patricia Annez; Mark Redwood; Billy Cobbett; Lamia Kamal-Chaoui; Edgar
Pieterse; Amin Y. Kamete; Smita Srinivas; Alfonso Iracheta; Yu Zhu; Dina K.
Shehayeb, Inga Klevby, Maha Yahya, Javier Sanchez-Reaza

Asia and Arab States: Saswati G. Belliapa (Bangalore); Francisco
L. Fernandez (Cebu); Yanping Liu and Yuehan Wang (Chongqing);
Amelita Atillo (Davao); Pelin F. Kurtul (Gaziantep); Dung D. Dzung (Ho Chi
Minh City); Satyanarayana Vejella (Hyderabad); Syed Shabih ul Hassan
Zaidi. (Lahore); Lan Jin and Yanping Liu. (Shenzen); Centre for Livable
Cities (Singapore); Omar Khattab (Kuwait City); Ali Shabou, Nashwa Soboh,
Kamal Jalouka, Deema Abu Thaib, (Aqaba and Amman); Sinan Shakir A.
Karim (Basra); Mona Fawaz and Nisrene Baghdadi (Beirut); Ahmedou Mena
(Doha); Darim. Al-Bassam and Jalal Mouris (Dubai); Dara al Yaqubi (Erbil);
Falah Al- Kubaisy (Muharrak); Rana Hassan and Ismae’l Sheikh Hassan
(Saida).

Financial Support
Government of Norway

Special Technical Contribution
Directorate-General for Regional Policy from the European Commission
various background documents from: Corinne.Hermant, Zoé BUYLE-BODIN,
Christian.SVANFELDT, Antonio G. Calafati, Celine Rozenblat, Moritz Lennert,
Gilles Van Hamme, Uwe Neumann Birgit Georgi

Additional Contributions:
Thematic Background Papers:

Input to boxes:
Cilla Ng, Inga Klevby, José Chong, Zeltia Gonzales, Estefania Villalobos,
Laura Petrella; Alexy Romero Garcia C.; Francisco Perez Arellano,

Brian H. Roberts; Pengfei Ni; Robert M. Buckley and Achilles Kallergis;
David Simon, Michail Fragkias, Robin Leichenko, Roberto SánchezRodríguez, Karen Seto and Bill Solecki, Susan Parnell and Matthew Sharp;
Ivan Turok.

Design and page layout:
Bounford.com (UK)

City Reports for policy analysis:
Latin America and the Caribbean: Francisco Perez Arellano
(Guadalajara);Ana Raquel Flores (Ciudad Del Este); Vladimir Morales
Gonzalez (Valparaíso);Flávio José Nery Conde Malta (Santos); Ibarra Rolando
Mendoza (Panama City); Oscar Bragos (Rosario); Tito Alejandro Alegría
Olazábal (Tijuana); Grethel Castellanos (Santo Domingo); Haydée Beltrán
Urán (Medellín); Isabel Viana (Montevideo); Miguel Coyula (Havana);
Carlos Foronda (La Paz); Alberto José Tobío (Guarenas); Luis Delgado
Galimberti (Lima); Alain Philippe Yerro (Fort-De-France)	

vi

Part One

Prosperity and
Urban Trends

Chapter 1.1

Conceptualizing Urban
Prosperity

might well on their own call into question the relevance
and even the viability of a Report on prosperity.
This proliferation of risks might even challenge the
conventional notion of “Cities as the Home of Prosperity”,
i.e. where, by definition, “successful, flourishing, or
thriving conditions” prevail.
As people in the latter part of 2011 gathered in Cairo’s
Tahrir Square or Madrid’s Puerta del Sol, in front of
London’s St Paul’s cathedral or in New York’s Zuccotti
Park, they were not only demanding more equality and
inclusion; they were also expressing solidarity with fellow
citizens that belong with the“99 per cent” (the vast
majority) as opposed to the “one per cent” (those with
vastly disproportionate shares of wealth and decisionmaking capacity). These movements highlighted the
inherent risks of ill-balanced growth or development
policies, and their failure to safeguard prosperity for all.
Throughout history, cities as seats of power have served
as stages for protests and the recent social movements
are no exception. Demographic concentrations in dense
urban spaces allow critical masses of protestors to
congregate and air new ideas, highlighting cities’ role
as sounding boards for
positive social change. This
At best,
points to another of the
prosperity
promises of a prosperous
as conventionally
city – not just a more
understood seems to be
productive socio-economic
an unnecessary luxury
use of space and the built
in a time of crisis. At
worst, prosperity can
environment, but also one
be seen as a harbinger
that safeguards the city’s
of yet another singlerole as a public forum
minded pursuit of purely
where plans and policies
economic prosperity
can be discussed and
that might bring the
challenged for the sake of a
global economy to the
brink again.
more prosperous society.

The City is the Home of Prosperity
Cities are where human beings find satisfaction of basic
needs and essential public goods. Where various products
can be found in sufficiency and their utility enjoyed. Cities
are also where ambitions,
aspirations and other
immaterial aspects of life
It is in every
are realized, providing
city’s interest to
adopt organically integrated
contentment and happiness
types of development and
and increasing the
prosperity that transcend
prospects of individual and
the narrow confines of an
collective well-being.
accumulation-driven model
However, when
that benefits only a few to
prosperity is absent or
the detriment of the majority.
restricted to some groups,
when it is only enjoyed in
some parts of the city, when it is used to pursue specific
interests, or when it is a justification for financial gains for
the few to the detriment of the majority, the city becomes
the locus where the right to shared prosperity is claimed
and fought for.

policy

FACT

Prosperity: A Misplaced Concern in
the Midst of Crises?
Never before had humankind as a whole faced cascading
crises of all types as have affected it since 2008, from
financial to economic to environmental to social to
political. Soaring unemployment, food shortages and
attendant price rises, strains on financial institutions,
insecurity and political instability, among other crises,
10

Conceptualizing Urban Prosperity

Box 1.1.1
Crises, Cities and Prosperity
The financial crisis: Borrowing, borrowing, borrowing
Prominent scholars such as Joseph Stiglitz ascribe the 2008
financial crisis to rising income inequalities in countries
around the world. In the face of stagnating real earnings, those
households in the lower- and middle-income brackets were
forced into more and more borrowing in order to maintain or
improve living standards. With financiers experimenting with risky
schemes at the other end of the credit chain, this situation led to
a spate of defaults and, ultimately, the financial crash of 2008.
The double irony of this crisis is that it originated in the efforts of
a supposedly sophisticated financial system to give low-income
categories a much-desired access to housing finance – and a
foothold in prosperity.

These protests highlighted the fact that economic growth was a
necessary condition for prosperity, though insufficient on its own:
social and political inclusion is vital for prosperity.
The environmental crisis: The convergence of climate change
and urbanisation
The current pattern of urbanization both in developed and
developing countries converges on one and the same model: low
density-based suburbanisation. Land speculation is associated
with indiscriminate conversion of rural land to urban uses in the
peripheries; this phenomenon combines with a growing reliance on
individual motor vehicles and new-fangled middle-class lifestyles
to expand urban areas way beyond formal city boundaries. A
variety of economic agents can typically be found behind this
trend, including real estate developers, home- and road-builders,
national and international chain stores, among others, more often
than not with support from banks and finance houses. Wasteful
expansion of cities in endless peripheries is a major factor behind
climate change. Beyond the physical threats from climate change,
some cities stand to face an array of additional risks related to
the provision of basic services and public goods (water supply,
physical infrastructure, transport, energy, etc.), affecting industrial
production, local economies, assets and livelihoods. Climate
change may have ripple effects across many sectors of urban
life, affecting the potential for prosperity of the more vulnerable
populations: women, youth, children and ethnic minorities.1

The democratic crisis: “We are the 99 per cent!”
The recent crisis is more than just an economic one. More
fundamentally, it has exposed a number of risks to social justice,
fairness, participation and, ultimately, democracy. Systematic
decision-making in favour of those better-off is, in itself, a form of
democratic deficit, and one that has led to popular movements like
New York’s Occupy Wall Street. The movement “calls for a society
organized around the needs, desires, dreams, of the 99 per cent,
not the one per cent.” The other major uprisings of 2011 – the
Arab Spring in North Africa and the Middle East, and Spain’s
own Indignados – were also motivated by similar demands for
better and deeper democracy as essential for overall prosperity.

Cities: Remedy to the Global Crises

with attendant employment and income generation. If
urban responses to economic crises are to be effective on a
local scale with positive regional or national repercussions
(‘multiplier effects’), then efficient, multi-way institutional,
policy and budget linkages are required between all relevant

If anything, the recent crises have demonstrated that cities
around the world are, to varying degrees of intensity,
exposed at least as much to the destructive as to the more
beneficial effects of international markets, including social
and political repercussions. In this sense, these crises
did more than expose systemic market failures: they also
highlighted major imbalances at the core of economic
policy-making.2
When responding to such crises, national
macroeconomic policies definitely have a major role to play
through countercyclical public expenditure, strengthening
bank supervision and financial regulations, introducing
progressive income taxation, and reinforcing worldwide
financial governance mechanisms, among other solutions.
However, responses to global crises must also allow for
a vigorous role for cities. So far, cities have been perceived
as the ‘engines’ of national economies and there is no
reason to depart from that view. Indeed, urban authorities
find themselves, at least notionally, in a position to boost
production in the real sector of the economy at local level,

FACT

Cities are a remedy to the global crises. They provide
ready, flexible and creative platforms that can mitigate
the effects of regional and global crises in a pragmatic, balanced
and efficient way. Cities can act as the fora where the linkages,
trust, respect and inclusiveness that are part of any remedy
to the crisis can be built. Acting locally in different areas and
spaces, urban responses to the crisis can be structured and
included in national agendas for more efficiency, with better
chances of flexible responses and more beneficial effects.
Although not immune to divisive partisanship and ideologies that
can paralyze decision-making, cities find themselves in more
privileged positions than national governments to negotiate and
agree on responses with local stakeholders. They can forge new
partnerships and local social pacts which, in turn, can strengthen
national governments in the face of global challenges.

11

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

policy

Cities can devise a number of safeguards against a
variety of socioeconomic risks. Municipal authorities
can prioritize expenditures on social security nets, local/regional
infrastructure and other types of development, with a view to
securing longer-term growth while stimulating consumption and/
or employment in the short term.

policy

Cities can also deploy safeguards against the risks
international markets may bring to bear on local
socioeconomic conditions, deploying redistributive policies in
close collaboration with central government in order to reduce
income gaps and other local structural problems.

FACT

This edition of the
State of the World’s
Cities Report presents
a fresh perspective on
prosperity based on five
dimensions – productivity,
infrastructures, quality
of life, equity and
environmental sustainability.

China: busy traffic on one of Beijing’s boulevards. Wide avenues such as this bring a sense of space to city centres but increasing wealth has
led to a massive growth in private car use.
© Yu Yang/Shutterstock.com

12

Conceptualizing Urban Prosperity

tiers of government. In this respect, proper alignment of
central and local government expenditures at city level can
facilitate transfers and their effective use by urban authorities.

policy

Shared urban prosperity puts people first, values
the tangible and intangible aspects of development,
promotes inclusive economic growth, protects human rights,
ensures enabling equitable development, cares for the natural
environment, reduces disaster risks and vulnerabilities for the
poor and builds resilience to adverse forces of nature. This new
city – the city of the 21st century –creates harmony between the
five dimensions of prosperity and enhances the prospects for a
better future.

Re-Thinking Urban Prosperity
A poverty-stricken plumber in Hyderabad (India), a
factory worker in Bogotá (Colombia), a middle manager in
Madrid (Spain), a businessman in Fortaleza (Brazil), a car
mechanic in Nairobi (Kenya) − all five will have aspirations
to prosperous lives. However, prosperity means different
things to different people around the world. Whatever the
individual perception, regardless of culture and civilization,
prosperity refers to a sense of general and individual
socioeconomic security for the immediate and foreseeable
future, which comes with the fulfilment of other, nonmaterial needs and aspirations.
Yet, the prevailing view continues to confine prosperity
to the realm of economics; a limiting view that shuts out
other dimensions that are integral to human well-being
and necessary for individual and collective fulfilment.
If anything, the 2008 financial crisis has amplified the
need to include other, non-economic dimensions in the
understanding and measurement of prosperity.
This Report introduces a new gauge for the degree
of prosperity in the cities of the world. Known as the
City Prosperity Index and developed by UN-Habitat,
this new instrument combines the five dimensions of
prosperity as understood in this Report and as subsumed
in measurable indicators. The index pinpoints strengths and
weaknesses, in the process suggesting where policy action
can address imbalances.
Re-thinking prosperity in those terms requires a shift
away from the current dominant perspective, which is
outdated and unsustainable on many grounds with its
combination of cheap fossil fuel, heavy dependence on
the motor car, highly segmented urban forms, socially and
economically segregated spaces, endless urban peripheries
that consume land, resources and in many cases natural
protected areas – and all largely steered by private, not
public interest.

policy

The ‘good’, people-centred city of the 21st century
stimulates local job creation, promotes social
diversity, maintains a sustainable environment and recognises
the importance of public spaces. In short, this is a city that comes
with a change of pace, profile and urban functions and provides
the social, political and economic conditions of prosperity – a city
that is all-encompassing and accessible to everyone.

wellbeing of the population? Put differently, what are the
manifestations or outcomes of a prosperous city? In general
terms, a prosperous city offers a profusion of public goods
and develops policies and actions for a sustainable use and
equitable access to ‘commons’.3 More specifically, several
elements which come to mind guide what constitutes the
UN-Habitat conceptualization of Prosperity.
First, a prosperous city contributes to economic
growth through productivity, generating the income and
employment that afford adequate living standards for the
whole population.
Second, a prosperous city deploys the infrastructure,
physical assets and amenities – adequate water,
sanitation, power supply, road network, information and
communications technology etc. – required to sustain both
the population and the economy.
Third, prosperous cities provide the social services –
education, health, recreation, safety and security etc. –
required for improved
living standards, enabling
A fresh
the population to maximize
approach
individual potential and
to prosperity is needed,
lead fulfilling lives.
not just to respond
Fourth, a city is only
to the effects of the
crisis and safeguard
prosperous to the extent
against new risks, but
that poverty and inequalities
also to steer the world
are minimal. No city can
towards economically,
claim to be prosperous
socially, politically
when large segments of the
and environmentally
population live in abject
prosperous urban
futures.
poverty and deprivation.

policy

Conceptualizing Prosperity:
The UN-Habitat Approach
Prosperity implies success, wealth, thriving conditions, and
wellbeing as well as opportunity. In any urban setting, a
key question will arise: What are the essential conditions
and elements that are required for a city to thrive, or for
an urban area to be described as prosperous, or for the
13

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

Table 1.1.1
Defining a prosperous city
A prosperous city is one that provides
Productivity

Contributes to economic growth and development, generates income, provides decent jobs and equal
opportunities for all by implementing effective economic policies and reforms

Infrastructure
development

Provides adequate infrastructure – water, sanitation, roads, information and communication technology in
order to improve urban living and enhance productivity, mobility and connectivity

Quality of life

Enhances the use of public spaces in order to increase community cohesion, civic identity, and guarantees the
safety and security of lives and property

Equity and social
inclusion

Ensures the equitable distribution and redistribution of the benefits of a prosperous city, reduces poverty and
the incidence of slums, protects the rights of minority and vulnerable groups, enhances gender equality, and
ensures civic participation in the social, political and cultural spheres

Environmental
sustainability

Values the protection of the urban environment and natural assets while ensuring growth, and seeking ways
to use energy more efficiently, minimize pressure on surrounding land and natural resources, minimize
environmental losses by generating creative solutions to enhance the quality of the environment

This involves reducing the incidence of slums and new
forms of poverty. Prosperous cities are equitable and socially
inclusive. The benefits and opportunities that come with a
prosperous city are equitably (re)distributed. A prosperous
city ensures gender equality, protects the rights of minority
and vulnerable groups, and ensures civic participation by all
in the social, political and cultural spheres.
Fifth, the creation and (re)distribution of the benefits
of prosperity do not destroy or degrade the environment,
instead the city’s natural assets are preserved for the sake of
sustainable urbanization.

infrastructure may be well-advanced, but inaccessible to
large portion of the population, therefore compromising the
notion of equity. In other, frequent situations, a city may be
economically efficient, enhancing job opportunities, but the
natural environment is neglected.
Since socioeconomic conditions keep changing on a
local and a broader scale, they will have an effect on one or
more of the five dimensions of prosperity, and it will be for
policy interventions to restore the balance. In this endeavour,
urban authorities will find that the various interlinkages and
interdependencies between
the five dimensions can
The ‘hub’
also be of a positive nature.
is made
For instance, provision
of the local urban
of water and sanitation
power functions, both
in informal settlements
public (municipal and
will improve both equity
other institutions and
agencies, laws and
and quality of life, and
regulations, including
even the environment.
urban planning) and
This points to the
non-public (civil society,
‘natural’ or ‘spontaneous’
business, etc.).they
interdependencies between
combine in a variety of
the five dimensions along
ways according to local
needs and conditions,
the outer rim of the
with the synergies
wheel. These can also
between them
be strengthened with a
resulting in innovative
multiplier effect through
institutional or policy
deliberate, well-targeted
practice, all for the sake
interventions through the
of the public interest
and shared prosperity.
‘hub’ of the wheel, i.e., the

FACT

The ‘Wheel of Urban Prosperity’
Prosperity, as defined by UN-Habitat, is a social construct
that materializes in the realm of human actions. It builds
deliberately and conscientiously on the objective conditions
prevailing in a city at any time, wherever located and
however large or small. It is a broader, wide-ranging notion
that has to do with well-balanced, harmonious development
in an environment of fairness and justice.
As described above, prosperity takes in all urban
functions as subsumed in five main categories. Since shared,
balanced development is a crucial feature of prosperity,
none of the dimensions must prevail over the others and
all must be kept roughly ‘equal’ – for the sake of a smooth
‘ride’ on the path of prosperity. In practice, of course, it is
a rare city where the five dimensions will be found equal
at any point in time, and this is where policy interventions
will be called for, as suggested graphically by the profile
of the city’s specific ‘city prosperity index’. For instance,
14

Conceptualizing Urban Prosperity

Figure 1.1.1
The Wheel of Urban Prosperity
URBAN PROSPERITY

tio

spo

ns

s

TY
SPERI
PRO
BAN
UR

ke

int

era

cti

on

s

policy
interactions

Envi

ronm

enta

l sus

bility

Infra

Government
institutions

policy
interactions

tion s

terac
spo

ke in

s poke interaction s

URB
AN

PR
OS
P
ER
IT

combined power functions at work in the city. For instance,
building a school and a covered market next to a poor area is
likely to have multiplier effects across the five dimensions of
shared prosperity.
This goes to show that far from some new ‘model’ or
‘utopia’ or branding/marketing technique, UN-Habitat’s
‘wheel of prosperity’ symbolises the well-balanced
development of the five dimensions, the current condition
of which is graphically represented in the City Prosperity
Index (CPI – see below). The ‘outer rim’ absorbs the
cumulative forces transmitted through the ‘spokes’ – the
five dimensions of prosperity. At the centre is the ‘hub’ –
the local urban power functions, with four interrelated
roles: (i) ensuring the prevalence of public over any
other kind of interest); (ii) controlling the direction,

UR

Eq

uit

ya

policy
interactions

life

nd

of

so

ty

cia

ali

l in

Qu

ns

clu
s

actio

policy
interactions

Y
RIT
PE
OS
PR

inter

ion

s poke

Laws and
urban planning

Y

ture

struc

taina

N
BA

URBAN
PROS
PER
ITY

p

ok

ei
n

ter
ac

Productivity

policy
interactions

pace and momentum of the ‘wheel’; (iii) ensuring the
balanced development of the five ‘spokes’ and associated
synergies; and (iv) in a two-way relationship, absorbing
and amortising any ‘shocks’ transmitted by the ‘spokes’.
The ‘hub’ brings together
the power functions
(e.g., laws, regulations
UN-Habitat
and institutions, urban
suggest
that the project for the
planning, civil society,
city of the 21st century
trade associations, special
is one of achieving
agencies, etc.) associated
balanced prosperity,
with the five ‘spokes’.
implying making the
In this role the ‘hub’
‘wheel’ well rounded
represents human agency
with synergetic spokes
and a dynamic hub.
in all its embodiments.

policy

15

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013
an end to “GDP fetishism” and, one year later, the British
government announced that it would, for the first time,
survey happiness in addition to purely economic measures.6
Prosperity is a more complex notion, one that cannot
be captured through straightforward indices that measure
how much money people earn or how many cars they
own. A ‘prosperous’ life includes other non-material,
non-tangible dimensions, like having a voice in shaping
the future of one’s city, having meaningful relationships,
belonging to supportive communities, and having the
resources and capabilities to transform your dreams into
concrete realities.
Recent efforts have attempted to include these other
dimensions of prosperity for a more accurate representation
of societal progress. Table 1.1.2 presents a summary of these
methods and approaches.

It holds the five ‘spokes’ together and endeavours to
maintain their balance and symmetry.

Measuring Prosperity: Attempts,
Failures and Progress
Prosperity remains one of humankind’s most enduring
pursuits across time and space. But it is only in the past
few decades that decision-makers, academics, practitioners
and populations have started to measure this important
dimension of human development. This has been a journey
of learning, trial and error. The adage “what gets measured,
gets done” has injected a sense of urgency in the pursuit not
just of prosperity per se, but also of an operational definition
complete with specific indicators.
More than 70 years ago in 1937, the Nobel-winning
metric of gross domestic product (GDP) was purported
to be the ‘mother of all statistics’, capturing the notion of
prosperity through total production of goods and services.
Although GDP spread rapidly and was widely accepted for
decades, it is becoming more and more apparent that this
aggregate is too narrow to provide the accurate measure
of a society’s overall well-being today. In 1972, the king
of Bhutan declared he was interested in measuring ‘Gross
National Happiness’ (GNH). In 1990, US economist
Mahbub ul-Haq convinced future Nobel laureate Amartya
Sen to create “an index as vulgar as GDP but more
relevant to our own lives.”4 In 2006, China developed its
own “Green GDP Index”, which seriously challenged the
validity of the standard aggregate, once environmental
aspects were factored in.5 In 2009, Joseph Stiglitz called for

The UN-Habitat “city Prosperity Index”
Cities can take different paths to prosperity. UN-Habitat
views development as a non-linear, non-sequential and
complex process and recognizes that development paths
are differentiated and unique.7 Still, actions and policies
implemented by governments to increase prosperity and
the outcomes of these policies can be measured to provide
an indication of how solid or weak are the factors of
prosperity available to any individual urban area.

Fetching water in Debre Zeit city, Ethiopia. Quality of life
and prosperity require an urban growth with commensurate
infrastructure and basic services.
© Eduardo Lopez Moreno

FACT

Conceptually, the
notion of prosperity
still belongs within the realm
of economic growth, but it
has to do with more than
just economic well-being
and material progress. Trying
to integrate other tangible
and less tangible human
dimensions of development,
such as well-being and
prosperity, has been an
ongoing story for more
than 40 years, with efforts
to create new metrics and
approaches that add nuance
to standard GDP.

16

Conceptualizing Urban Prosperity

Table 1.1.2
Measuring Progress and Prosperity
Human Development Index (HDI)
United Nations Development Programme
1990

HDI combines indicators of life expectancy, educational attainment and income into
a composite human development index. It is a single statistic that serves as a frame
of reference for both social and economic development, ranking countries by level of
“human development”.

Genuine Progress Indicator (GPI)
Think-tank Redefining Progress
1994

GPI was developed as an alternative system to GDP measurement. It is used as a more
inclusive type of economics based on “True Cost” economics, looking how the increased
production of goods, and expanding services have actually resulted in the improvement of
welfare or well-being of the people.

Measuring Sustainable Development
UNECE, OECD, EUROSTAT
2005

This is structured around the concept of capital, as measured under four main
dimensions – economic, natural, human and social – that all pertain to sustainability.
The idea is to make this concept operational for public policies.

Prosperity Index
Regional Research Institute, USA
2006

This index measures regional economic prosperity and tracks performance at city level,
assessing competitiveness and identifying opportunities to improve business. Although
based on economic prosperity, the index includes three main components: business,
people and place.

Commission on the measurement of
economic performance and social
progress, France
2008

This Commission proposed to shift emphasis from measuring economic production to
measuring people’s well-being, against a background of sustainability. The Commission
concluded that well-being is better assessed on the basis of income and consumption
rather than production.

Legatum Prosperity Index
Legatum Institute, UK
2008

The index purports to measure national prosperity based on wealth and well-being, using a
composite indicator. It ranks 110 countries based on eight “pillars of prosperity”: economic
conditions, entrepreneurship and opportunity, governance, education, health, safety and
security, personal freedom, and social capital.

Redefining Prosperity
UN Sustainable Development Commission
2009

Prosperity is redefined based on three aspects: a) fulfilment of material needs; b) the social
and psychological dimensions that contribute to an enhanced sense of identity, meaning,
belonging and hope; c) individual capability to flourish in more prosperous environments.

National Well-Being Accounts Index
New Economics Foundation, UK
2009

The index measures social progress based on subjective well-being. It combines two types
of data: personal (emotional well-being, satisfying life, vitality, resilience, self-esteem) and
social well-being (supportive relationships, trust and belonging).

Global City Index (GCI)
Foreign Policy Magazine, Kearney &
Chicago Council on Global Affairs
2010

The GCI measures the international standing of cities along five dimensions: business
activity, human capital, information exchange, cultural experience and political
engagement. The index results in competitiveness rankings of cities in terms of business
opportunities and economic innovation.

Sustainable Development Index
Department for Environment,
Food and Rural Affairs, UK
2010

This index combines four sets of data: sustainable consumption and production, climate
change and energy, protecting natural resources and enhancing the environment, and
creating sustainable communities. The index is a composite of a total 68 indicators.

Various sources, compiled by UN-Habitat, 2012.

UN-Habitat’s “City Prosperity Index” (CPI) does
not only provide indices and measurements; it also
enables decision-makers to identify opportunities and
potential areas along the path of prosperity. The CPI
includes various indices and indicators that are relevant
to urban areas, and important for prosperity-oriented
public policy-making.

Being based on the UN-Habitat concept of prosperity,
the CPI includes the five dimensions (the ‘spokes’ in the
‘wheel’) of urban prosperity. Each is further disaggregated in
various variables and sub-indices. UN-Habitat has adopted
an incremental approach to the development of this index.
Two of the dimensions – productivity and quality of life –
correspond to components of the Human Development
17

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

Box 1.1.2
Cities and Human Development
Cities with high HDI values appear both as engines for positive
change and as beneficiaries of prosperity. In the developing
world, some urban areas are becoming so prosperous that
they have closed the gap with, or even surpassed the HDI of
cities in developed nations. For example, Seoul, South Korea,
features a HDI as high as 0,911, higher than that of many
European cities, particularly the Southern and Eastern regions
where HDI readings, though high, come under 0.900 in cities
such as Lisbon, Athens or Warsaw.

FACT

UN-Habitat analysis shows that some cities
in the developing world are becoming more
prosperous (with higher HDI values), reflecting very
significant progress on health and education, and at
times even in the absence of sustained economic growth.

City and National HDI values
HDI Index
1.0

Country HDI 2010

City HDI

0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3

o
nt
ro

ou

l
To

ex
M

Se

ic
o
W City
ar
sa
w

iro
Ca

a
cr
Ac

r
ka
Da

M
u
Ne mb
w ai
De
lh
i

Ki

ns
ha
Ni sa
am
M e
on y
ro
via

0.2

Index (HDI), and have been used to compute the “City
Human Development Index” (CHDI). The three other
dimensions – infrastructure, environmental sustainability
and equity – are made of various key indicators as indicated
in Table 1.1.3. Although more refinement is still needed in
terms of what indicators
are included in the index
and with which respective
The Human
weightings, those that have
Development Index
been selected offer the
(HDI) is typically higher
possibility of disaggregating
in cities compared with
the different dimensions
relevant national averages.
Indeed, cities are in general
of prosperity, in the
richer than the rest of any
process identifying policy
country. However, differences
intervention areas.8
between City and country
Although in many cases
HDI measures are much
the
prosperity of a city will
steeper in nations with lower
go hand in hand with that
than those with higher HDI
measures.
of the country, significant
variations in CPI measures

can be found in cities in the same country, and this goes
to show that national aggregates do not necessarily reflect
what happens in different regions or cities. Most existing
prosperity indices provide estimations for countries only
(see Table 1.1.2). By comparison, the UN-Habitat City
Prosperity Index is unique in the world for two reasons: (i)
it focuses on individual cities, as opposed to countries, and
(ii) it is concerned with
prosperity as measured
across five dimensions, of
Despite
which the local economy is
their high
only one, as opposed to the
production of goods
sole business environment.
and services, European
cities are experiencing
The resulting CPI values
many crises –financial,
can be regrouped in six
employment, housing,
distinct brackets that range
among others – and it
from cities with ‘very solid’
is expected that their
prosperity factors to those
respective CPI values
where those factors are
will reflect this in the
near future.
found to be ‘very weak’.9

FACT

policy

18

Conceptualizing Urban Prosperity

Table 1.1.3
The UN-Habitat City Prosperity Index
Dimensions

Definitions/variables

Productivity

The productivity index is measured through the city product, which is composed of variables such
capital investment, formal/informal employment, inflation, trade, savings, export/import and household income/
consumption. The city product represents the total output of goods and services (value added) produced by a
city’s population during a specific year (details of the methodology can be found in the complete Report).

Quality of life

This index is a combination of three sub-indices: education, health sub-index and public space.

Infrastructure development

This index combines two sub-indices: one for infrastructure proper, and another for housing.

Environmental sustainability

This index is made of three sub-indexes: air quality (PM10), CO2 emissions and indoor pollution.

Equity and social inclusion

This index combines statistical measures of inequality of income/consumption, (Gini coefficient) and
inequality of access to services and infrastructure.

Cities with very solid prosperity factors (0.900
and above): In the world’s most prosperous cities the
five ‘spokes’ are well-developed overall, with very little
variations among them. Urban power functions such as
good governance, urban planning, laws, regulations and
institutional frameworks ensure that no particular dimension
of prosperity gains prevalence to the detriment of the others.
More specifically, they feature high volumes of goods and

services as well as strong economic fundamentals and high
productivity. Their populations live longer and are well
educated. Infrastructures are available and the environment
is well managed. These cities are well governed and ensure
safe, secure environments. It is clear that the five ‘spokes’ of
urban prosperity are kept together in balance and at a right
pace by a ‘hub’ that has the collective interest as its core.
When the equity index is included in the CPI, the
findings show that urban
equity and prosperity
are closely linked: not
unsurprisingly, cities
that do well on the first

Figure 1.1.2
Cities with very solid prosperity factors
CPI Index (with five dimensions)

Productivity Index

Infrastructure Development Index

CPI Index (with four dimensions)

Quality of Life Index

Environmental Sustainability Index

Equity Index

1.0

FACT

0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1

nk
St
i
oc
kh
ol
m
Lo
nd
on
To
ro
n
Ne to
w
Yo
rk
Vi
en
na

in

lsi

He

bl

lo

Du

Os

ky
o
Pa
ris

rn

e

To

nd
M

elb

ou

m

la

Au

ck

h

da

Am

st

er

n

Zu
ric

ls

ag
e

se

nh

Co

pe

na

Br

us

n
ila

elo

M

rc
Ba

W

ar

sa

w

0

19

In broad terms,
the classification
of cities by CPI values
results in regional brackets
with various cities in the
developed world featuring
solid prosperity factors
(CPI: 0.900 or higher), a
majority of African cities
with a very weak readings,
constituting the last two
groups (CPI: 0.600 or
below). In between a large
number of Asian and Latin
American cities make up the
third and fourth groups (with
CPI values of 0.700–0.799
and 0.600–0.699,
respectively).

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

FACT

All the cities in this group feature very high Gross
National Incomes (GNI) per capita (from US$ 25,478
for New Zealand to US$ 58,810 for Norway) and they produce a
substantial share of the country’s GDP (e.g., Brussels – admittedly
an exception – contributes as much as 46 per cent of Belgium’s
GDP). The economic power of some of these cities is comparable
to that of many national economies. Estimated GDP equivalents in
Tokyo and New York are similar to those of Canada or Spain, while
London’s GDP is higher than those of Sweden or Switzerland.

four dimensions of prosperity (with very solid prosperity
factors) seem to be more equitable. In most cities of this
group, inequality is relatively low, as reflected in low Gini
coefficients (typically below 0.4, the exception being
New York where inequality is significantly steeper (0.5)).
When the equity dimension is taken into consideration,
the CPI remains high for all cities (i.e., above 0.800),
but only half remain with ‘very solid’ prosperity factors
(i.e., CPI above 0.900).
Cities with solid prosperity factors – first category
Recycling is a vital service in modern city dwelling.
(CPI: 0.800–0.899): Cities in this bracket feature high
© EGD/Shutterstock.com
CPI values. The five ‘spokes’ of prosperity are connected,
generating a selfreinforcing, cumulative
momentum along the
Figure 1.1.3
path of prosperity. The
Cities with solid prosperity factors – first category
minute variations between
Productivity Index
Infrastructure Development Index
CPI Index (with five dimensions)
the ‘spokes’ is evidence
Environmental Sustainability Index
Quality of Life Index
CPI Index (with four dimensions)
of the efficiency of the
1.0
’hub’, i.e., relatively
strong institutions,
0.9
responsive legal and
0.8
regulatory frameworks
0.7
and large availability of

Equity Index

0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1

n
bo
Lis

st
da
pe
Bu

ns
he
At

e
Pr

ag
u

l
ou
Se

w
co
os
M

lo
Pa
u

y
at
m
Al

20

Sã
o

i

t

gh
a
an
Sh

ch

ar

es

ty
Bu

M

ex
ico

Ci

ra

0

An
ka

FACT

Cities with solid
prosperity factors
belong to countries with
different stages of economic
development and different
HDIs, with Kazakhstan
featuring the highest (0.884)
and China, Turkey and Brazil
the lowest (0.663, 0.679
and 0.699, respectively).

Conceptualizing Urban Prosperity

Box 1.1.3

policy

Cities in emerging economies such as Brazil or
China combine high economic growth and strong
infrastructure, and are expected to move faster along the path of
prosperity – but then, for the sake of balanced development, they
must tackle inequalities and environmental degradation. They also
must look to improve quality of life through more ample provision
of public goods.

Promising African cities
Among the 20 African cities included in UN-Habitat’s CPI
sample, Cape Town, Johannesburg, Cairo and Casablanca are
the only ones featuring solid prosperity factors. Cairo’s current
political turmoil highlights the need for a more integrated
pathway and more balanced growth with some dimensions
(quality of life and infrastructure) progressing much faster than
others (equity and social inclusion). Morocco, on the contrary,
has embraced political change with a new constitution that
enhances civil liberties and expands the notion of prosperity,
which stand to benefit Casablanca and other cities. South
African cities have experienced significant economic growth,
but in the past two decades life expectancy has declined
substantially, affecting quality of life.

performance in terms of prosperity. When the equity index
is included in the CPI, both cities score below 0.800. This
suggests that, although prosperity factors remain on the
whole solid, they are somewhat weaker. While inequality is
historically entrenched in most Latin American cities, it is a
recent phenomenon in Russia, in the extended aftermath of
economic liberalization.
public goods. Cities in Southern and Eastern Europe such
Cities with solid prosperity factors – second category
as Lisbon, Athens, Warsaw, Budapest, Prague, Bucharest
(CPI: 0.700–0.799): This group is heterogeneous, with
and Moscow feature in this bracket, along with others in
some cities showing a ‘less coordinated’, ill-balanced
Latin America and Asia: São Paulo, Mexico City, Almaty
development in the ‘spokes’. This comes as the result
(Kazakhstan), Shanghai, Seoul and Ankara.
of institutions, legal and regulatory frameworks and
However, it is important to note that high inequalities
urban management practices that are being consolidated
in Moscow, Mexico City and São Paulo interfere with their
and because of this; they cannot hold together all the
elements of the ‘wheel’
to operate with stability.
Heterogeneity is also
Figure 1.1.4
related to the stage of
Cities with solid prosperity factors – second category
development of the
Productivity Index
Infrastructure Development Index
CPI Index (with five dimensions)
Equity Index
relevant countries.
Environmental Sustainability Index
Quality of Life Index
CPI Index (with four dimensions)
Measured by HDI
1.0
readings, significant
variations occur between
0.9
countries like Jordan
0.8
(0.884) and Indonesia
0.7
(0.600), for instance.
0.6
0.5

FACT

0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1

21

an
m
Am

k

ïv

ko
ng
Ba

Ky

i
No
Hà

n
Ye
re
va

iji
ng

To
pe
Ca

Be

wn

rta
ka

es
nn
ha

Ja

g
bu
r

ila
an

iro
Ca

M
Jo

Ca

sa

bl

an

ca

0

Most of the
cities in this
group are located in
Asia: Amman, Bangkok,
Hanoi, Yerevan, Beijing,
Jakarta and Manila.
Four African cities are
feature: Cape Town,
Johannesburg, Cairo
and Casablanca. Kiev in
Ukraine is the only city
in Eastern Europe.

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

ap

a

u

al

cig

gu

Te

Ch

isi

na

i

M

um

ba

bi

iro

Na

Pe

no

Ph

aa

Ul

m

aa

nb

a

al

em

Gu

at

nh

r

ta

ty

Ci

nd

ou

Ya

Ne

w

De

lh

i

é

Interestingly, the capital
Figure 1.1.5
cities of these two
Cities with moderate prosperity factors
countries do not feature
Productivity Index
Infrastructure Development Index
CPI Index (with five dimensions)
Equity Index
such extreme variations
Environmental Sustainability Index
Quality of Life Index
CPI Index (with four dimensions)
in their respective HDIs
1.0
(0.810 for Amman and
0.755 for Jakarta).
0.9
However, it is important
0.8
to note that inequality
0.7
is inconsistent with
prosperity as understood
0.6
in this Report. When the
0.5
equity index is included
0.4
in the CPI, Cape Town
and Johannesburg (which
0.3
both feature very high Gini
0.2
coefficients), drop from the
0.1
bracket of cities with ‘solid’
prosperity factors and join
0
the group with ‘weak’ or
even ‘very weak’ prosperity
factors, with CPI values of
0.590 and 0.479 respectively.
Cities with moderate
prosperity factors (CPI: 0.600–0.699): The difference
infrastructure and environment in most of the cities in
between ‘solid’ and ‘moderate’ prosperity factors
this bracket. Production of goods and services is still too
lies in wider discrepancies among the values of the
low, a reflection of underdevelopment. Historic structural
various components. This points to institutional and
problems, chronic inequality of opportunities, widespread
structural failures, as the ‘hub’ fails to keep the ‘spokes’
poverty, inadequate capital investment in public goods,
at a relatively same ‘length’. Cities with less balanced
and lack of pro-poor social programmes are critical factors
development feature contrasted patterns, with a neat
behind such low degrees of prosperity.
divide between rich and poor.
The city product of African cities in this bracket is low,
In Nairobi, prosperity is compromised by steep
as are the ratings for quality of life and infrastructure. Most
inequality (Gini coefficient: 0.59), causing its CPI value to
drop from ‘moderate’ to’ weak’ (0.673 to 0.593).
Box 1.1.4
Cities with weak prosperity factors (CPI: 0.500–0.599):
Much remains to be done there in terms of quality of life,
Low production, highly available public goods
Chisinau, the capital of Moldova, features a very low city
product (0.34) that is almost half of those of Mumbai (0.645)
or New Delhi (0.596). Still, this combines with very high
readings for quality of life (0.85), infrastructure (0.895) and
clean environment (0.894), similar to those for much richer
cities like Auckland, Brussels, London or New York. With
a very modest economic base, the city has been able to
deliver sufficient public goods to reach a moderate degree
of prosperity. This goes to show that various dimensions of
urban prosperity can be deployed while economic growth
remains relatively weak.

FACT

Most of the cities in this bracket – Tegucigalpa, Nairobi,
Phnom Penh, Ulaanbaatar, Guatemala city, Yaoundé,
Mumbai and New Delhi – feature low HDIs (below 0.62). While
in most cities a moderate CPI value is associated with a low city
product, in the case of the two Indian cities the low CPIs mostly
reflect poor environmental conditions.

FACT

In Nairobi, prosperity is compromised by steep inequality
(Gini coefficient: 0.59), causing its CPI value to drop from
‘moderate’ to’ weak’ (0.673 to 0.593).

22

Conceptualizing Urban Prosperity

Figure 1.1.6

policy

Cities with weak prosperity factors
CPI Index (with five dimensions)

Productivity Index

Infrastructure Development Index

CPI Index (with four dimensions)

Quality of Life Index

Environmental Sustainability Index

Equity Index

1.0
0.9
0.8
0.7

Poor
performance of
the ‘hub’ points to the need
for more effective urban
power functions such as
governance, urban planning,
laws, regulations, and
institutions that can pave
the way for more prosperous
futures for these cities.

0.6

Ka

Ab

id

ja

n

du

un

la
m

pa

s
Ka

go
La

a
cr
Ac

z
Pa

ba
sA
di

La

ba

r
ka
Ad

Da

re
ra
Ha

al
sS

Da

re

Lu

sa

aa

m

ka

0

m

0.1

a

0.2

th

0.3

like Monrovia (0.048),
Antananarivo (0.171) or
Conakry (0.133). In 2002,
Zimbabwe recorded the
lowest slum prevalence of
the region, and one of the
lowest of all the developing
world (four per cent);
poor governance, political
instability and massive
housing evictions in 2005
have raised that percentage
to 17 per cent, mainly due to overcrowding; and yet, Harare
features high infrastructure development (0.899), similar to
that of emerging economy cities like Ankara, Manila, Mexico
City or Mumbai. Quality of life in Harare is also very low,
ak

0.4

Dh

0.5

of these cities perform better on the environment indicator
(low emissions of fine particles (PM10). Recent progress in
Ghana in the economic and political spheres looks certain
to improve the CPI value for Accra, which at the moment
is low (0.533) due to poor economic performance (0.347).
Addis Ababa features relatively low in all CPI components,
and this relative uniformity reflects a fair balance among
the ‘spokes’ (0.52 on average). The city continues to make
progress, thanks to higher investment in infrastructure and
construction, manufacturing and tertiary activities. This
in turn paves the way for job creation, and it is for central
government to ensure that this economic model, which
involves several dimensions of prosperity, retains both
momentum and good synchronization.
Various cities/countries
from this group have a
recent past marred by
The bulk of this
bracket can be
conflicts, political instability
found in Africa: Abidjan,
or economic crisis. The
Accra, Addis Ababa,
city product of Harare
Dakar, Dar Es Salam,
(0.246), not long ago a
Harare, Kampala,
very vibrant economic
Lagos and Lusaka. Also
centre, is almost as low as
included are Dhaka,
Kathmandu and La Paz.
that of post-conflict cities

El Alto, Bolivia: a large and poorly serviced part of greater La Paz,
where the population is 80% indigenous
© Eduardo Lopez Moreno

FACT

23

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

reflecting a dramatic
reduction in life expectancy
(to 1970s levels). Similar
declines are also observed in
the Democratic Republic of
Congo, Lesotho, Swaziland
or Zambia.
It is important to
note that inequality
further weakens the CPI
values for Lagos, Harare
and Lusaka. When the
equity index is included
in the CPI, all three cities
move from ‘weak’ to ‘very
weak’ prosperity factors
(below 0.500).
Cities with very weak prosperity factors (CPI
below 0.500): Cities in this bracket feature contrasted
patterns among the sub-indices in the CPI. For some,
the dispersion of index values across the ‘spokes’ reflects
institutional and structural problems. For others, the five
dimensions of prosperity do converge, only at very low
values, a hallmark of dysfunctional systems, institutional
failures, sluggish economic growth as well as widespread
poverty and destitution.

Figure 1.1.7

FACT

There are only
five cities with
very weak prosperity
factors (CPI below 0.500)
in UN-Habitat’s worldwide
sample – Bamako,
Antananarivo, Monrovia,
Niamey and Conakry. Their
common feature is that they
have recently experienced
various types of conflict
with various degrees of
intensity. In each of them,
production, quality of life
and infrastructure indicators
are very low.

Cities with very weak prosperity factors
CPI Index (with five dimensions)

Productivity Index

CPI Index (with four dimensions)

Quality of Life Index

Infrastructure Development Index

Equity Index

Environmental Sustainability Index
1.0
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1

ey
am
Ni

o
ak
m

riv
na
na
An

ta

Ba

o

y
kr
na
Co

M

on

ro

via

0

Box 1.1.5
Visualizing the 5 dimensions of the CPI
Productivity index

Equity index

Productivity index

Quality of life index

1.0

0.5

Equity index

Quality of life index

0
Vienna

1.0

Mexico City

0
Vienna
Cairo
Nairobi

Johannesburg
Environmental index

0.5

Infrastructure index

Environmental index

Infrastructure index

environment appears to be the weaker point in an otherwise
well-balanced pattern of prosperity – although at an overall
lower level compared with Vienna. Similar interpretations can be
derived from the pentagon to the left, which compares the relative
performances of revealing the prosperity patterns for the Mexico
and Johannesburg, again against Vienna’s.

The two pentagons represent the five ‘spokes’ of prosperity
as measured in five cities and the extent to which they are
imbalanced /balanced in relation to each other. The radar-shaped
graphs suggest where policy interventions are required. For
instance, Nairobi (to the right) performs well in terms of the
environment and infrastructure, but less so on equity, productivity
and quality of life. In Cairo, the situation is the reverse, as the

24

Chapter 1.2

Urban and
Regional Trends

Urban Change in
Developed Countries

More than Half of the World is Now Urban

Urban Population Growth is Next to
Stagnant

It is really remarkable that only one century ago, two
out of 10 people in the world were living in urban areas.
In the least developed countries, this proportion was
as low as five per cent, as the overwhelming majority
was living in rural areas. The world has been rapidly
urbanizing since then and, in some countries and regions,
at an unprecedented pace. It was only two years ago that
humankind took a historic step when, for the first time
in history, the urban outnumbered the rural population.
This milestone marked the advent of a new “urban
millennium” and, by the middle of this century, it is
expected that out of every 10 people on the planet, seven
will be living in urban areas.
Interestingly, only 60 years ago or so (1950), the
number of people living in urban centres was slightly
higher in the developed nations (54 per cent, or 442
million) compared with developing countries. Today,
of every 10 urban residents in the world more than
seven are found in developing countries, which are also
hosts to an overwhelming proportion of humankind
(82 per cent of the world’s population). Moreover, it is
estimated that, between 2010 and 2015, some 200,000
people on average will be added to the world’s urban
population each day. Worth noting is that 91 per cent of
this daily increase (or 183,000) is expected to take place in
developing countries.

In the more advanced nations, urban population growth
is next to stagnant (0.67 per cent on an annual average basis
since 2010), which represents an additional six million or
so every year. In Europe, the annual increase is only two
million. By comparison, the aggregate annual population
increase in six major developing-country cities – New Delhi
and Mumbai (India), Dhaka (Bangladesh), Lagos (Nigeria),
Kinshasa (Democratic Republic of Congo) and Karachi
(Pakistan) – is higher than Europe’s entire population.
Population in North American cities was the least slow of
all those in the developed world between 2005 and 2010,
particularly in the United States (one per cent on average).
The Growth, Decline and Prosperity of Cities: There
is no clear association between the demographic growth or
decline of cities and their degrees of prosperity. Although
population numbers have declined in a number of cities in
Western Europe, Canada and New Zealand, this did not
affect living standards, which in some cases even improved.
On the other hand, and
as might be expected,
population declines in
In the last
a number of cities in
20 years,
the proportions of
Eastern Europe and the
European cities with
United States of America
demographic growth
are strongly associated
rates over one per cent
with economic decay. The
and of those with
deterioration of inner
population declines
city conditions (deserted
were comparable.

FACT

25

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

policy

Cities must
create
the conditions (and
record accurate data)
that will enable them
to understand and
anticipate trends,
including the growth or
decline of some areas
or regions, if they are
to be in a position to
develop expansionary
or recovery strategies.

China, Ruili, Yunnan Province. Dai minority threshing rice harvest in fields which are gradually being swallowed by this booming border city.
© Mark Henley/Panos Pictures

26

Urban and Regional Trends

Figure 1.2.1
Population density in Europe, 2001

Source: ORNL LandScan – cartography DG REGIO, European Commission.

residential areas and crumbling infrastructure) have all gone
hand in hand with population declines.
Growing Cities are Located in Growing Regions.
Cities and the surrounding regions are typically
interdependent economically and tend to share similar
socio-economic and demographic trends. In most North
American cities, surrounding regions tend to predominate
over urban areas. In contrast, in Western Europe the
prosperity of entire regions is largely dependent on a
primate conurbation and the concentration of services
and manufacturing that comes with it.
Cities in the North will
continue to attract migrants.
European urban areas,
Regional
and national
in particular, will continue to
urban planning through
feature low fertility rates and
central government
rapidly aging populations.
plays a critical role in
These demographic trends
creating a system of
are unmistakable and point
cities and in determining
to overall demographic
the prosperity and
growth of cities.
decline.

Between 2005 and 2010,
net international migration
In the European
Union, deaths
counterbalanced the excess
should outnumber births
of deaths over births in 11
from 2015 onwards, putting
developed countries, while
an end to population growth
contributing twice as much
through natural increase.
to population growth in
Positive net migration will
another nine countries.11
be the only demographic
growth factor until 2035.10
With the ongoing economic
crisis, the aggregate flow of
immigrants to developed
countries has slowed down
from an annual 2.3 per cent average rate in 2000–05 to
1.7 per cent in 2005–10. Rising unemployment in some of
the host cities/countries may cause governments to impose
restrictions on immigration.12
It would be in the best interests of European countries/
cities to review immigration policies with a view to
maximizing the benefits and reducing the more negative
aspects of the phenomenon, with inclusionary social and
political mechanisms to bring prosperity to all.

FACT

policy

27

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

Urban Change in
Developing Countries

Caribbean is expected to reach 642 million, 566 million
and 560 million, respectively. In an apparent paradox, by
that same year 2025 Africa will still be the least urbanized
region in the world (45 per cent of the population).
Asia: Moving into the “Urban Century”: Half of the
world’s urban population now lives in Asia. This region
has accounted for about 65 per cent of the demographic
expansion of all urban areas across the world since the
beginning of the 21st Century. Undoubtedly, this is the
“Asian Urban Century”.13 Large population concentrations
in mega-cities are to remain a prominent feature in
urban Asia (today, seven out of the 10 most populous cities
of the world are in this region). In the recent past, Delhi
and Shanghai have joined the league of ‘meta-cities’, those
massive conurbations of more than 20 million people. It is
expected that by 2020, another three Asian cities – Beijing,
Dhaka and Mumbai – will have reached the 20 million mark.
Latin America and the Caribbean: Inter-city migration
predominates: This is the most urbanized region in the
world (80 per cent of the total population, compared with
Europe’s 73 per cent).The urban transition in this region
was achieved in the early 1960s, or about 16 years before
Western Asia (the second sub-region in the developing
world to become predominantly urban), and 30 and 45
years respectively before Southern and North Africa (or, on
current trends, some 70 years before the whole of Africa).

Divergent Urban Growth Patterns
In the last decade, the urban population in the developing
world grew an average 1.2 million people per week, or
slightly less than one full year’s demographic growth in
Europe’s urban areas. Asia dominated the picture, adding
0.88 million new urban dwellers every week. Africa was the
second largest contributor with an additional 0.23 million
per week, dwarfing Latin America and the Caribbean’s
0.15 million weekly increment.
Africa: The urban population is set to outstrip
Europe’s: In what promises to be one of the more
remarkable forthcoming developments in the overall
pattern of urbanization in Africa, the region’s population
is poised to outgrow both Europe’s and Latin America’s,
which was the first region to become predominantly urban
in the developing world. In 2025, the aggregate urban
population of Africa, Europe, Latin America and the

FACT

Urbanization in Africa has not yet brought the economic
development and degree of prosperity that might have
been expected. Inadequate education and physical infrastructure,
combined with poor governance, have constrained the efficient use
of productive resources, and the industrial development that might
have come with it. At the same time, the ongoing urban economic
momentum in Africa is a result of a number of the typical factors of
prosperity at work in other regions of the world, such as economies
of agglomeration, location advantages, and diversification of the
economic base, albeit all in nascent form.

Convergent Urban Growth Patterns
Cities are expanding in a discontinuous, scattered and
low-density form that is not sustainable: A defining feature
of cities in the developing
world is an outward
expansion far beyond
African
formal administrative
cities must
boundaries, largely
connect to regional
and global business
propelled by the use
networks, enhance
of the automobile and
quality of life, improve
land speculation. A large
basic infrastructure
number of cities – whether
and communication
in Angola, Egypt, Brazil,
networks, address
China, or almost any other
public transport
deficiencies and
country – feature very
environmental
land-consuming suburban
conditions, and respond
sprawling patterns that
to inequality and
often extend even to
poverty issues, if they
farther peripheries. A study
are to turn into real
on 120 cities shows that
engines of national
growth and prosperity.
urban land cover grew,

policy

FACT

Asia is also confronted by the same urban paradox as
Africa. Despite high concentrations of population in large
cities, the continent ranks among the least-urbanized regions in
the world (45 per cent urban). The tipping point for ‘urban Asia’ is
expected to happen earlier though (around 2020s).

policy

The economic success of many countries/cities goes
hand in hand with urbanization. Cities must give
more attention to rising inequalities and the worrying trend of
environmental degradation.

28

Urban and Regional Trends

FACT

Urban populations maintain high growth rates in the
developing world, but the pace has slowed down, from
just under three per cent in the year 2000 to 2.4 per cent in
2010, which is still three and a half times higher than the annual
average population growth rate in developed countries.

La Paz, Bolivia sprawls ever higher up the mountain side. The metropolitan area, formed by the neighbouring cities of La Paz, El Alto and
Viacha, is the most populous area of Bolivia.
© 2012 Robert Gilhooly/fotoLIBRA.com

29

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

on average, more than double the growth of the urban
population. Similar urban trends can be observed in other
parts of the world. For instance, in Mexico, the urban

physical expansion of all urban areas over the last 30 years
was estimated to be at around 7.4 per cent on an annual
average basis, outstripping population growth by a multiple
of nearly four.14
Cities are becoming endless expanses, with high
degrees of fragmentation of the urban fabric that
result in vast interstitial open spaces. At the periphery,
residential neighbourhoods are characterized by lowdensity developments which, along with under-used
spaces and fragmented built-up areas in the intermediate
city-rings, are contributing to dramatic reductions in
residential densities.

FACT

Latin America and the Caribbean will be nearly 87 per cent
urban in 2050, by which time the annual average pace
of growth in the urban population is expected to slow down to
0.3 per cent. Some cities already see their populations shrinking.
Latin America and the Caribbean stands out as the only region
where migration between urban areas is a significant determinant
of urban population growth, accounting for nearly 50 per cent and
due to several factors, chief among them the pursuit of prosperity.

Novel Urban/Regional Configurations and
Prosperity

policy

Latin American cities must become more productive
and generate local jobs, improve transport
infrastructure and living conditions, short of which they will face
prospects of population decline due to higher mobility from city
to city. They must reduce entrenched inequalities while improving
quality of life and environmental protection. More prosperous
cities must articulate better their strategic advantages with
national economic policies and enhance their creative capital to
increase prosperity prospects.

Cities large or small have increasingly come to merge
together to form new spatial configurations that typically
take three principal forms: mega-regions, urban corridors
and city-regions. Each on its own spatial scale, these
three forms seem to act as nodes where global and
regional flows of people, capital, goods and information
combine and commingle, resulting in faster growth, both
demographic and economic, than that of the countries

policy

Even though the region is more urbanized than Europe,
GDP per capita (PPP) was nearly three times lower
than the European Union’s in 2010. The main reasons include
chronic inequalities and mass poverty, insufficient infrastructure,
poor public services, inadequate connectivity, poor governance
and fragile institutions.

Box 1.2.1
Novel configurations: A typology
Mega-regions surpass mega- and meta-cities by population
and economic output, combining large markets, skilled labour
and innovation and amalgamating several cities within the
orbit of the overall region.
Example: Japan’s Tokyo-Nagoya-Osaka-Kyoto-Kobe region,
with a population close to 60 million.

policy

Against this background, cities must accommodate
demographic and spatial expansions, with a
concomitant development of well-devised urban structures that
would reduce transport and service delivery costs, optimize land
use and support the deployment and/or protection of open spaces.
Better connectivity, mobility and accessibility and wellplanned integration of land-use, density and transport
have the potential to reduce energy consumption drastically,
making cities more sustainable.

Urban corridors, a number of urban centres of various
sizes are connected along transportation routes in linear
development axes that are often linked to a number of megacities, encompassing hinterlands. New developments in some
fringe areas experience the fastest growth rates and the most
rapid urban transformation. Example: in Malaysia, the Kuala
Lumpur-Klang corridor along the Klang Valley.

FACT

City-regions take on a larger scale than large cities,
expanding beyond formal administrative boundaries to engulf
smaller ones as well as semi-urban and rural hinterlands,
and even merge with other intermediate cities, creating large
conurbations that eventually form city-regions.

policy

Most urban plans and regulatory regimes in the developing
world have been incapable of preventing the conversion
of rural land to urban use in city peripheries. as a result, the
reclassification of settlements from ‘rural’ to ‘urban’ has become
the second most significant determinant of urban population growth
and expansion in the developing world today.

Examples: São Paulo, Brazil; Cape Town, South Africa;
Bangkok, Thailand.

30

Urban and Regional Trends

where they are located. These new configurations are
more and more spatially connected and functionally
bound by their economic and environmental ties, at times
even socially and politically. They play an increasing role
in the creation and distribution of prosperity far beyond
their own specific geographic areas.
Large urban configurations, as grouped in
networks of cities, amplify the benefits of economies of
agglomeration, increasing efficiencies and enhancing
connectivity. They also generate economies of scale that are
beneficial in terms of labour markets, as well as transport
and communication infrastructure, which in turn increase
local consumer demand.

FACT

A critical mass of people, ideas, infrastructure and
resources acts as a magnet of development, attracting
migrants, private firms, investors and developers. All of this
enhances the prospects for more employment opportunities,
wealth creation, innovation and knowledge, which are all major
factors of prosperity.

and developing a strong
regional vision for the
whole large configuration.
For instance, in the Pearl
River Delta mega-region
in China, each of the
cities capitalizes on its
comparative strengths, and
contributes to the overall
prosperity of the large
configuration.
Infrastructural
development: Transport
infrastructure improves

Enhancing Prosperity in Large Urban
Configurations: The 5 Dimensions
Large urban configurations concentrate so many
resources and opportunities that give substance to the
five dimensions of prosperity: productivity, infrastructural
development, quality of life, equity and social inclusion, and
environmental sustainability.
Enhanced productivity: Planning large urban
configurations as a ‘portfolio’ of functional and
complementary areas of specialization can lead to more
diversified economies, capitalizing on the comparative
advantages of each city within the large agglomeration

policy

It is in a city’s
interest to
establish linkages with
other neighbouring urban
areas for the sake of
complementary functions
in order to acquire a
strong collective regional
identity, in the process
achieving greater economic
momentum than if they
remain in isolation.

India, Tirupur, Tamil Nadu.Workers at a textile factory in Tirupur.
There are some 7,000 garment factories in the city, providing
employment to close to one million people.
© Atul Loke/Panos Pictures

31

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

China: high-speed train in Lujiazui City, the financial district of
Shanghai. Bullet trains in China substantially reduce transit times
between cities, a 140 km journey taking only 30 minutes.

connectivity and spatially integrates the networks of cities
that make up the urban/regional configuration. The large
economically prosperous cities of Shanghai, Guangzhou
and Beijing have invested
in infrastructure to connect
peripheral towns and
Investments
enhance the large urban
in transport
infrastructure and related
configuration. Beijing has
reforms, including finance
extended 304 km of roads
and regulations, deliver
to link all ‘administrative
major economic benefits,
villages’ to the city (2005).
contributing to poverty
Shanghai has built 750 km
alleviation and improving
of highways to integrate
quality of life.
the rural hinterland (2007).

© ArtisticPhoto/Shutterstock.com

Guangzhou has completed extensive networks of roads,
electricity and water distribution to all neighbouring rural
settlements with more than 100 residents (2007).15
Equity and social inclusion: The market-driven
logic of scale economies can interfere with equitable
distribution, such as unregulated land markets, spatial
segregation, extreme income inequalities and uneven
development. Speculative real estate development in
many of these large urban
configurations effectively
excludes not only the poor,
Increasing
but even the middle class,
evidence
from formal land markets,
shows that
creating an uneven
interventions to
patchwork of privilege and
promote quality
of life have clear
underprivilege across large
positive effects on
urban areas.
the other dimensions
Quality of life: When
of prosperity.
city leaders cooperate,
Unsurprisingly, progress
rather than compete, in a
on the other dimensions
number of areas (crime,
of prosperity is found to
enhance quality of life.
poverty, social inequalities,

policy

policy

policy

Cities and regional governments should encourage
social and institutional innovations that can level out
socio-spatial inequalities; this can include tax revenue transfers
among urban authorities within the large urban configuration, or
revenue-sharing, or equalization grants.

policy

New or strengthened, more effective local and regional
institutions, new linkages and alliances across the
three tiers of government, together with a comprehensive vision
with clear plans favouring inclusiveness, are all crucial for
equitable development and prosperity.

32

Urban and Regional Trends

transport systems, infrastructure) a more effective type of
regional governance emerges that has direct implications on
the quality of life both inside and outside the large urban
configuration.
Environmental sustainability: Environmental
challenges transcend political/administrative boundaries.
Yet, local authorities may find themselves with little
power or resources to counter negative impacts of growth
on the environment, particularly in the face of negative
externalities generated by neighbouring cities.

policy

Looking beyond their own local interests and
cooperating with the other jurisdictions involved,
local authorities can improve competitive advantage while also
preserving the environment.

policy

Working together, cities in a large urban configuration
are in better positions effectively to protect,
manage, and plan for physical environments that span multiple
jurisdictions.

policy

The economic surpluses that large urban
agglomerations derive from productivity gains can
be channeled towards the protection of natural resources in the
region, with the costs of maintaining these indivisible public goods
equitably shared among the population.

Large Urban Configurations face
specific risks
Large urban configurations come with a number of wellidentified, specific risks: poor urban/regional planning,
lack of coordination and deficient coping strategies in
the face of social and fiscal disparities. Although these
affect the whole population, the bulk of the risks fall
disproportionately on the poor.
Economic forces and spontaneous growth in the large
urban configurations tend to sharpen spatial and social
disparities, which are further compounded by inefficient use
of land and other resources. Close links with world financial

policy

Should they fail to address those detrimental side
effects, large urban configurations may find it
increasingly difficult to attract investment, labour and skills, in the
process compromising future prosperity.

markets and the impacts of global and regional economic
crises shape ‘uneven geographies of development’.

Endnotes
1	

UN-Habitat (2011) Cities and Climate Change: Global Report on Human Settlements
2011, Earthscan, London

2	

United Nations (2010) World Economic and Social Survey 2010: Retooling Global
Development, United Nation (DESA),New York, http://www.un.org/esa/policy/wess/
wess2010files/wess2010.pdf

3	

Historically, water, biodiversity, knowledge and some other shared resources,
including roads, sidewalks, highways and other public infrastructure have been
considered as ‘commons’. ‘Commons’ are also intangible aspects such as clean
environmental conditions, identity, cultural and symbolic spaces. More recently, from
an institutional governance perspective, ‘commons’ are institutional arrangements
such as ‘spaces’ for negotiation and participation, cultural norms and legal and
statutory provisions.

8	

Further compounding the problem of data dearth is the fact that most of the existing
information was not collected in a uniform way to allow for comparisons of cities
across countries and regions.

9	

This classification has used data from multiple sources for the various components
of the UN-Habitat City Prosperity Index, and this calls for a word of caution when
interpreting some of these variations.

10	 Eurostat (2008) ‘Ageing characterizes the demographic perspectives of the European
societies’, Eurostat - Statistics in focus, 72/2008, Author: Konstantinos Giannakouris.
European Commission, Brussels.
11	 United Nations (2010) World population policies 2009, United Nations, Department
of Economic and Social Affairs, Population Division, New York, http://www.un.org/esa/
population/publications/wpp2009/Publication_complete.pdf

4	

Dickinson, E. (2011) ‘GDP: A Brief History’, Foreign Policy, January/February 2011,
http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/01/02/gdp_a_brief_history.

5	

The outcome of China’s “green GDP” index was that if air pollution, water shortages,
desertification, and depletion of fish stocks and wildlife were factored into its GDP
calculation, the 2004 GDP would have been 511 billion yuan (US$ 66 billion), or three
per cent lower (SEPA and NBS, 2006).

6	

Dickinson, 2011.

14	 ONU-HABITAT and SEDESOL (2011), El Estado de las Ciudades de México, ONUHABITAT (Oficina Regional para América Latina y el Caribe), Rio de Janeiro,

7	

Oyelaran-Oyeyinka, B. and P.G. Sampath (2010) Latecomer Development: Innovation
and Knowledge for Economic Growth, Routledge, London and New York.

15	 World Bank (2009) World Development Report 2009: Reshaping Economic
Geography, World Bank, Washington.

12	 Ibid.
13	 Mohan, R. (2006) Asia’s Urban Century: Emerging Trends, Key note address delivered
at the Conference of Land and Policies and Urban Development, Lincoln Institute
of Land Policy, Cambridge, Massachusetts, June 5, http://www.bis.org/review/
r060705e.pdf.

33

Part Two

Prosperity of Cities

Chapter 2.1

Productivity and the
Prosperity of Cities

per capita fails fully to reflect the complex dynamics
determining urban productivity.

Rising Urbanization and Increasing
Productivity

Enhancing urban productivity is clearly desirable, as it
improves competitiveness and, ultimately, the prosperity of
any city. More productive cities are able to increase output
with the same amounts of resources, generating additional
real income that can raise living standards through more
affordable goods and services. More specifically, the
extra income and municipal revenue generated through
productivity will enable any city to provide more, better
services, such as housing, education and health services,
social programmes and expanded infrastructure networks
to support both productive and leisure activities.
Urban productivity refers to the efficiency with which
a city transforms inputs into outputs. However, because
of limited data, gross domestic product (GDP) per capita
is commonly used as a proxy for urban productivity, with
a city’s GDP measuring
local production of
Raising urban
goods and services and
productivity
the population serving
is not a goal in itself, but
as a proxy for inputs
a critical starting point
related to human capital.
to provide residents with
However, it is important
decent income for their
basic needs and adequate
to emphasize that, despite
living standards.1
its expediency, GDP

As countries become more urbanized, both urban
and national productivity will increase. As shown in
Figure 2.1.1, rising urbanization and per capita income
went hand in hand for the world as a whole over the
past five decades. While the share of urban populations
worldwide increased from 33 to 51 per cent between 1960
and 2010, per capita income increased by 152 per cent –
from USD 2,382 to USD 6,006 – over the same period.4
However, as shown in Figure 2.1.2, the positive link
between urbanization and national productivity holds
mainly for high- and middle-income countries, signaling
healthy urbanization dynamics fueled by prosperous
cities acting as magnets for rural migration. Low-income
countries display a more mixed trend. While these countries
as a whole experienced a fast pace of urbanization from
1960 onward, GDP per
capita remained largely
unchanged, and even
In OECD
countries, the
decreased, particularly
GDP per capita is, on
between 1970 and the
average, 64 per cent
year 2000. This would
higher in towns and
suggest that, rather than
cities than in rural
being attracted by better
areas. Similarly, in
economic opportunities
European cities with
populations over
in urban areas (demand
one million, average
pull’), rural migrants
GDP per capita is
were only seeking refuge
25 per cent higher than
from famine, war or other
in the EU as a whole,
calamities in what is often
and 40 per cent higher
referred to as ‘supply push‘
than that of their home
nations.3
urbanization.5

policy

FACT

policy

Cities are naturally more productive than rural areas,
as they benefit from larger pools of labour and talent,
together with concentration efficiencies for both producers and
consumers, and a more fluid exchange of ideas and innovations.2

36

Productivity and the Prosperity of Cities

more rapidly, reflecting
The correlation
the productivity gains
between
from improvements in
urbanization rates and
manufacturing and services
productivity over the past
as well as infrastructure
five decades has also varied
investments made during
across and within regions,
the inter-war years.6
reflecting the multiplicity
of factors affecting both
Brazil, a higher middlephenomena.
income country, underwent
a seemingly similar growthurbanization path until the
late 1960s, when about half the population became urban.
Thereafter, productivity neither grew significantly faster
than urbanization, nor were productivity gains sustained,
suggesting that urbanization alone may not guarantee
continued productivity increases.
China, a lower middle-income country, experienced
a gradual increase in urbanization rates and productivity
until the late 1970s, when urbanization reached 20 per cent.
After the opening up of the economy in 1978, productivity
increased at a much faster pace – GDP per capita grew
by a factor of roughly 15 between 1978 and 2010, while
the percentage of the urban population increased by a
factor of ‘only’ 2.4 during the same period.

Figure 2.1.1

FACT

Urbanization and per capita GDP across countries
as % of base year, 1960–2010
GDP per capita

Urban population (%)

5.0
4.5
4.0
3.5
3.0
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5

10
20

05
20

00
20

95
19

90
19

85
19

80

75

19

19

70
19

65
19

19

60

0.0

Note: Both time series are indexed to 1 in the initial year. The y value of
each series shows the unit change with respect to the base year.
Source: UNDESA (2012) urbanization; World Bank (2012) GDP per capita.

The experience of the USA, Brazil, China and
Kenya illustrates some of the specific factors at work
in individual countries. Figure 2.1.3 shows that in the
USA, urbanization rates and per capita income moved
together until roughly 1940, when urbanization reached
close to 60 per cent. Thereafter, per capita income grew

Shenzen, China: inside the factory of the biggest CCTV
surveillance camera producer in China.
© Bartlomiej Magierowski/Shutterstock.com

37

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

Figure 2.1.2
Trends in urbanization and national GDP per capita – for various levels of income, 1960–2010
GDP per capita

5.0

5.0

Lower middle-income countries, 1960–2010

4.5

4.5

1.0

0.5

0.5

0.0

0.0

19

20

20

20

19

19

19

19

19

19

19

19

60

1.0

10

1.5

05

1.5

00

2.0

95

2.5

2.0

90

2.5

85

3.0

80

3.0

75

3.5

70

3.5

65

4.0

60

4.0

Low-income countries, 1960–2010

10

0.0

20

0.0

05

0.5

20

0.5

00

1.0

20

1.0

95

1.5

19

2.0

1.5

90

2.0

19

2.5

85

2.5

19

3.0

80

3.0

19

3.5

75

4.0

3.5

19

4.0

Urban population (%)

Higher middle-income countries, 1960–2010

70

4.5

19

High-income countries, 1960–2010

4.5

65

5.0

19

5.0

Note: Both time series are indexed to 1 in the initial year. The y value of each series shows the unit change with respect to the base year.
Source: UNDESA (2012) urbanization; World Bank (2012) GDP per capita.

Lastly, Kenya illustrates the experience of the limited
number of low-income countries, mostly in Sub-Saharan
Africa, where productivity
growth was negligible even
though urbanization rates
Despite
continued to rise.7

FACT

In the USA, New York City contributes about 10 per cent
of the country’s GDP and only 6.3 per cent of the total
population. The 10 US cities with the largest GDP produce
36 per cent of the country’s goods and services and 24 per cent
of the total population.8 São Paulo – Brazil’s economic and
financial capital accounts for 10 per cent of the population, but
25 per cent of national GDP.9 In China, the 53 metropolitan regions
with populations over one million contribute about 62 per cent
of national non-farm GDP and 29 per cent of the country’s
population. In Kenya, Nairobi, with 8.4 per cent of the country’s
population, accounts for almost 20 per cent of the country’s
GDP.10 Worldwide, the largest 100 cities accounted for around
30 per cent of the total production of goods and services in 2008,
with the top 30 cities alone accounting for around 18 per cent.11

policy

Factors Affecting
Urban Productivity
The factors determining
urban productivity can
be split into two broad
categories: external factors
that give cities additional
comparative advantage,
including national and
38

differences
in the pace of
productivity growth
with respect to
urbanization, the urban
dominance in economic
productivity is evident
across countries. In
other words, urban
areas contribute
disproportionately to
national productivity.

Productivity and the Prosperity of Cities

Figure 2.1.3
Urbanization and GDP per capita in selected countries
GDP per capita
1,200

Urbanization

350
Kenya

USA

300

1,000

250

800

200
600
150
400

350

2,250
Brazil

2,000

300

10
20

05
20

00
20

95
19

90
19

85
19

80
19

75
19

70
19

19

60
19

10

00

20

90

20

80

19

70

19

60

19

50

19

40

19

30

19

20

19

19

19

19

18

18

10

0

00

0

90

50

80

200

65

100

China

1,750
250

1,500

200

1,250

150

1,000
750

100

500
50

250

10
20

05
20

00
20

95
19

90
19

85
19

80
19

75
19

70
19

19

60
19

10
20

05
20

00
20

95
19

90
19

85
19

80

75

19

19

70
19

65
19

60
19

65

0

0

Note: Both time series are indexed to 100 in the initial year. The y value of each series shows the percentage change with respect to the base year.
GDP per capita is in constant 2000 USD.
Source: Source: UNDESA (2012) urbanization; World Bank (2012) GDP per capita.

regional factors; and city-level factors that affect the city’s
production function, such as physical infrastructure,
growth management, human capital, and innovative and
entrepreneurship spirits.

cities a comparative advantage, and have served to spur the
growth of resort cities around the world, from the French
Riviera to Punta del Este (Uruguay), Eilat (Israel), Jurmala
(Latvia) or Las Palmas
(Canary Islands).
The importance of
Cities located
national comparative
in countries
advantage is illustrated by
with a well-educated labour
force, sound infrastructure,
the fact that, while 22 of
mature financial markets,
the top 30 largest urban
stable political systems and
areas (by population) were
firmly grounded market
located in emerging or
mechanisms have higher
developing economies in
productivity than those
2008, only seven emerging
located in countries that do
not offer these conditions.
economy cities ranked
among the top 30 in terms

External factors

policy

External factors are largely beyond cities’ orbits of
influence. Some of the differences in productivity among
cities are explained by external factors, such as geographic
location, as well as regional and national comparative
advantages (Table 2.1.1).
In terms of geographic location, coastal areas and river
deltas have been preferred locations for cities. Currently,
14 of the world’s 19 largest cities are port cities, which
benefit from lower shipping costs and access through wider
markets.12 Natural beauty and warmer weather also give
39

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

of urban GDP. The group
Table 2.1.1
included Mexico City,
External factors determining a city’s productivity
São Paulo, Buenos Aires,
Geographical
Physical attributes
Moscow, Shanghai, Mumbai
comparative
Climate
and Rio de Janeiro, but
advantage
Location (e.g., ports, rivers)
no Middle Eastern or
Natural endowments
Soils
African cities. The average
Minerals
GDP per capita of these
Energy
emerging/developing
Natural beauty
country cities tends to be
Archeological heritage
substantially smaller than
Regional
Economic opportunities
that of developed cities
comparative
Access to markets, investors and skills
(Figure 2.1.4).
advantage
Regional hubs and/or clusters
Subsequent expansion
National
Level of development
in individual cities triggered
comparative
Pool of labour, skills, scientific and
the emergence of ‘city
advantage
technological capital
Social conditions (e.g., poverty, inequality)
clusters,’ spurring the
Economic infrastructure
growth of second-tier cities such as Tianjin, Shijiazhuang
Institutional conditions
and Tangshan, which respectively developed around Beijing;
Sound institutions
Zhuhai, Dongguan and Foshan around the provincial
Sound governance
capital of Guangzhou; and Suzhou, Wuxi and Hangzhou in
Political stability
close proximity to Shanghai. These city clusters generated
Maturity of financial markets
agglomeration economies at the regional level, expanding
Economic policies
opportunities for trade and enhancing their (and their entire
Ease of doing business
region’s) attractions for investors.13 This cumulative effect
Investment attractiveness
Macroeconomic stability
has resulted in dramatic differences in productivity between
coastal cities and their counterparts in the hinterland, with
Vision
National leadership
the growth differential
surpassing 6 per cent,
and the per capita fiscal
Figure 2.1.4
revenues between the
Population, GDP per capita and total GDP for selected metropolitan areas (2008)
richest and the poorest
provinces increasing from a
2008 GDP per capita (Thousands US$ PPPs)
100
ratio of 2:1 to 19:1.14

FACT

In China, national
policies have
played a key role in
improved productivity
in coastal cities. Three
decades ago, China
initiated policies designed
to promote economic
growth in those cities
through a combination
of industrialization and
financial incentives,
putting them in a better
position to compete for
foreign investment and
infrastructure spending.

90

City-level factors
affecting urban
productivity

80

Cities play a key role in
determining their own
productivity, since many
factors that affect urban
productivity play out at
the city level. Some of
these factors are intrinsic
to all urban areas –
occurring naturally such
as agglomeration and scale

50

Sphere surface represents
total urban GDP
(2008 US$bn PPPs)

New York

Boston

70
60

Atlanta

Los Angeles

Paris

Houston

40

Sao Paulo**
Shanghai

Buenos Aires

30

Mexico City
Tokyo

Istanbul

20

Cairo

10

Lagos

0
0

5

Karachi
10

Dhaka

Mumbai (Bombay)****

15

20

25

30

35

40

45

2008 Population (Millions)

** New data found from national data sources on GDP per capita in all major Brazilian Cities including Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro.
**** New data found from national data sources on GDP per capita in Mumbai (as well as Delhi, Bangalore and Kolkata in full rankings).

Source: Data from PricewaterhouseCoopers (2009)

40

Productivity and the Prosperity of Cities

Table 2.1.2

fact

The concentration of infrastructure, people as well
as economic, social and cultural activities, leads to
substantial benefits and efficiency due to agglomeration and scale
economies.

City-specific factors determining a city’s productivity
Intrinsic
(natural)
productivity
growth
factors

Extrinsic
productivity
growth
factors

Economies of scale
Provision of urban services
Agglomeration economies
Matching
Sharing
Learning

benefit from a wider range
of potential employers,
which lowers their risk of
failure. Better matching
between labour supply
and demand results in
greater flexibility, higher
productivity and stronger
growth for both workers
and businesses. Cities also
offer firms and residents
access to a wider and better
range of shared services
and infrastructure.16

Technical efficiency
Structural efficiency
Land management policies
Space efficiency
Infrastructure investment
Taxation
Disaster prevention
Operational efficiency
Day-to-day urban management
Service delivery
Emergency management
Institutional scaffolding
Sound local institutions (e.g., decentralization)
Sound governance
Ease of doing business
Quality of life (quality of education, safety,
cultural life, liveliness)
Attractiveness to knowledge-base industries
Attraction and retention of the ‘creative class’

Extrinsic city-level
factors

policy

Agglomeration
economies
give cities a competitive
advantage over rural
areas, as well as large
cities over smaller cities.
Agglomeration economies
also benefit densely
populated areas within
cities.

policy

The structural
productivity
of cities in part rests upon
an efficient supply of
serviced land and reliable
infrastructure, including
transport, power, water
and sanitation as will as
ICT. These are critical
enabling factors of urban
development, as they
constitute basic inputs of
productive activity and,
if deficient, constitute
a limiting constraint
on growth and private
investment.

As cities continue to
grow, higher productivity
comes to depend on other
factors, such as the ability
of a city to maximize
the technical efficiency
of urban systems, both
structural and operational.
Effective management
of agglomeration
diseconomies – including
congestion and rising input
prices – enables the population and businesses to maximize
their own productive potential.
This has been the case in Mumbai, where serious
attempts to create an international financial hub have
been defeated by chaotic local transport conditions
together with a prohibitive property (rental) market, with

Learning-based efficiency
Creativity and innovation
Research and development and technological
development
Entrepreneurship
Vision
Local leadership
Local governance

economies (Table 2.1.2). Other city-specific factors depend
on the city’s ability to capitalize on the natural productivity
potential of agglomeration economies (‘extrinsic cityspecific factors’).

Intrinsic city-level factors15
One of the most obvious factors determining urban
productivity is population growth. As a city’s population
increases, so does the pool of workers and consumers.
Agglomeration economies are the benefits firms derive
from locating near customers and suppliers in order to
reduce transport and communication costs and having
access to a large labour pool. In larger cities, workers

fact

Lack of adequate infrastructure severely hinders the
structural productivity of cities, limiting their capacity to
achieve full potential.

41

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

rents twice as high as
Manhattan’s pushing major
financial companies away
from the city.17
Several cities are
actively expanding
infrastructure as part
of their development
strategies. Kenya’s
capital Nairobi is
developing transport
and communications
infrastructure, with
tangible results in terms of
efficiency and productivity
in various economic sectors. Similar efforts are underway
in Guadalajara in central Mexico in a bid to attract more
high-technology firms (electronics and communications). As
a result, production structures are undergoing rapid change,
and suburban landscapes with them.

For example, Rio de Janeiro’s newly established
Operations Centre offers a glimpse of the way cities might
be managed in the future.18 Conceived as a city-wide
decision-making mechanism for emergency situations
based on real-time information, the centre integrates
information from multiple departments and government
agencies, Visual displays of data from various urban
systems, including surveillance cameras, together with
maps, news updates, information about incidents and
even simulations, facilitate real-time monitoring and
analysis. Although initially designed for forecasting floods
and other emergencies, the Centre is also used for dayto-day management of urban functions. Similar projects
have already been implemented in New York City and in
Gauteng (South Africa).19
With the decline of physical constraints on cities and
communities as a result of technological progress in recent
decades, creativity and innovation have arguably become
major driving forces of productivity and economic growth
in urban areas.

policy

The sound
operation of
cities, which encompasses
traffic to emergency
management, transport
services, garbage collection,
and the provision of urban
services that offer critical
support to social and
economic activities are
important determinants of
the operational productivity
of cities.

Figure 2.1.5
Factors hampering economic productivity

per cent

Corruption/lack of good governance

Cost of conducting business

Weak public institutions

Lack of appropriate knowledge & skills development

Deficient infrastructure

Poor access to information

40

35

30

25

20

15

10

5

0
Africa

Asia

LAC

42

Arab States

All regions

Productivity and the Prosperity of Cities

fact

fact

New technologies
offer opportunities for
enhanced urban management,
making cities more efficient
and productive.

While physical factors are undoubtedly
key determinants of productivity,
local experts around the world emphasize
the importance of ‘soft’ factors. Specifically,
corruption and lack of good governance were
identified as the most significant barriers
to economic productivity by 25 per cent of
the local experts surveyed by UN-Habitat
(Figure 2.1.5). Additional factors included the
high cost or difficulty of doing business, weak
institutions, insufficient knowledge and skills,
deficient infrastructure and poor access to
information.

China: the Hexi Corridor, part of the historical Silk Route, remains economically important.
© 2012 Edwina Sassoon/fotoLIBRA.com

43

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

Some cities are
strengthening comparative
advantage by showcasing
their tangible and
intangible heritage and
exploiting their cultural
identity, in an effort to
bring about social and
economic transformation.20
Doha, for example, is
developing education and
arts as part of the city’s new
Cities that
cultural vision.21 Gaziantep
succeed in
in eastern Turkey has
educating, attracting
started to use cultural
and retaining creative
individuals are more likely
heritage as a touristic
to prosper, as they not only
asset for the purposes
generate new ideas and
of increased prosperity.
products but, in turn, also
Heritage restoration and
attract high-value added
rehabilitation enhance
firms, such as knowledgequality of life while
based industries.
contributing to economic
development.22
Talent, in turn, is a
A city’s existing
function of the quality of
talent pool is
school systems and higher
a major determinant of
education. Many cities in
productivity. The more
the developing world are
highly skilled a city’s
faced with brain drain
population, the more likely it
is to attract more talent.
due to lack of local and
national policies to retain
highly qualified individuals.
With the exception of
By offering an
Asia, where about half of
environment
the local experts perceive
conducive for Research and
that cities are making
Development, cities can be
key players in a knowledgeefforts to retain talent, the
based economy, as there
proportions are alarmingly
is a direct link between
low in other regions.
Research and Development,
There are exceptions,
technology and productivity.
though: Dubai emphasizes
higher education and
training in engineering and
23
information technologies. Chongqing has developed an
ambitious training programme to support the transition of
rural migrants from manual-based to skill-based types of
work; by 2009, nearly one-third of migrants had benefited
from the scheme.24

Some cities in developing countries have embraced
the model of world-class innovation clusters, such as
California’s Silicon Valley or Boston’s Route 128, to become
‘high-tech hubs’. Those that have met with success in
this endeavour, such as India’s Bangalore, owe it to the
same basic factors: the presence of top-quality academic
and research institutions as well as substantial public and
corporate investment. However, some observers claim
that the city needs to pay more attention to infrastructure
development and to ensure that the benefits of growth are
more evenly distributed across all the population.
Quality of life is rapidly emerging as a major asset
in any efforts to attract and retain creative minds and
businesses. It comes as no surprise that Toronto, San
Francisco or Stockholm should consistently rank among
the top performing cities in the world, since they are found
as performing particularly well in a wide range of both
economic and quality of life indicators, crime, green areas,
air quality and life satisfaction. Outside the more developed
nations, Singapore, with a similar balance of quality of life
attributes, also ranks among the top world cities and the
highest among developing countries.

FACT

Cities that succeed
in fostering the
exchange of ideas and
innovations are able to tap
into growth dynamics that
fuel the creation of social
and intellectual capital,
thereby further contributing
to their productivity.

policy

Urban Productivity: Some Challenges

fact

While China’s urban population increased from 17 to
39 per cent within a span of 40 years (from 1963 to 2003),
the same change in urban population took 120 years in
Great Britain and 80 years in the USA.26 Cities in more
advanced countries are better positioned to capitalize on
the agglomeration economies associated with population
growth. This is not just because that growth is more
manageable (typically around one per cent per year); but
also because, as suggested by their high GDP per capita,
these cities already have the physical and institutional
support needed to capitalize on that demographic
potential. Such capacities are generally not available in
developing countries,
leaving fast-expanding
cities more exposed
Top performing
to the agglomeration
cities derive
diseconomies which
their strengths not
just from their status
prevent them from
as global economic
fully capitalizing on the
powerhouses or
productivity potential
from sophisticated
associated with sustained
infrastructure, but
population growth
also from their ability
(typically an annual rate
to enhance quality of
life.25
of two to four per cent or

policy

fact

44

Productivity and the Prosperity of Cities

more). Despite the difficulty, some cities such as Shenzhen,
China has made remarkable progress as indicated in the
box below.
This is the case of Dhaka the capital city of Bangladesh,
with an average annual population growth of 4.4 per cent
between 1990 and 2008. The ninth largest city in the world,
Dhaka is one of the fastest growing in Asia. While some of
the population growth has only reflected recent expansion
boundaries, the Dhaka region has long attracted migrants
from rural areas looking for opportunities in the booming
metropolis. They provide much-needed labour in rapidly

growing sectors of the
The fast pace
economy. Fueled by the
of urbanization
continuous growth in the
in developing countries
financial, manufacturing
presents both challenges
and telecommunications
and opportunities for the
sectors, annual GDP
productivity of cities.
is an estimated USD75
billion.28 At the same
time, Dhaka’s GDP per
Not all cities are
capita is the lowest of all
fully capitalizing
mega-cities, suggesting
on the gains of population
that agglomeration
growth.
diseconomies are likely
to have offset a large
proportion of the potential
benefits associated
Unfortunately,
with strong population
Dhaka’s experience
is
not
exceptional.
In the UNgrowth. In other words,
Habitat
survey,
urban
experts
the productivity gains
expressed scepticism
associated with such
regarding the progress being
growth would have been
made towards distributing
remarkable if only Dhaka
the benefits of a prosperous
had been able to manage
city. In cities like Bangalore,
Ho Chi Minh and Chongqing,
its growth more effectively
the benefits of economic
and distribute benefits it in
prosperity are perceived to
a more equitable manner.
be captured mainly by the
As shown in
educated class; in Alexandria
Figure 2.1.6, urban experts
and Nairobi, mostly by the
wealthy; while in Santo
from all regions share the
Domino, Dubai and Dar-essame grim assessment, with
Salam, largely by politicians.
Asia showing just a slightly
more positive outlook – as
20 per cent of local experts
perceive that economic prosperity is evenly distributed,
compared to 14 per cent in the Middle East and roughly
7 per cent in Africa and Latin America.

policy

fact

Box 2.1.1
Shenzhen: Capitalizing on the gains of urban growth

fact

Shenzhen is one of the world’s fastest growing cities. During
the past 30 years, Shenzhen’s GDP per capita ranked first
among China’s major cities – averaging a phenomenal
27 per cent annual growth in urban GDP. Notably, the gains
from Shenzhen’s fast pace of industrialization, urbanization
and modernization have served to enhance the quality of
life of all its residents. Income and living conditions have
improved steadily. A new social security and public health
insurance system has been successfully implemented. The
city’s Gini coefficient has remained around 0.3, far less than
that of the other cities on the mainland, denoting the city’s
efforts to achieve an equitable growth pattern.27

Figure 2.1.6
Perceptions of experts regarding the distribution of
economic prosperity
per cent
20

15

How to raise a city’s productivity? Some
general policy guidelines

10

While urban productivity is generally linked to stable
macroeconomic conditions, sound institutions and
adequate infrastructure, the focus of policy actions will
depend on a city’s level of development.
The management of urban growth is particularly
important if rapidly expanding cities in early stages
of development must be able fully to capitalize on the
natural benefits of agglomeration economies and to
reduce future inefficiencies.

5

ns
eg
io
lr
Al

Ar

ab

St

at

es

LA
C

ia
As

Af

ric

a

0

Source: UN-Habitat, City Monitoring Policy Survey, 2011

45

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

Ineffective land management, inadequate spending
on infrastructure, distorting taxation schemes and unduly
cumbersome business regulations are detrimental to any
city’s structural productivity.

It is important to identify any barriers that prevent
any city from maximizing its productivity potential. In
this regard, reducing traffic congestion, enhancing mass
transit options and providing efficient, reliable services are

policy

policy

As cities progress
along the development
path, they must facilitate
production processes, addressing
the technical and organizational
inefficiencies that hinder structural
and operational productivity.

Cities at the early stages of development need
to strive towards enhancing good transport
connectivity to its markets and providing access to
adequate health and basic education to its population.

policy

The importance
of sound
governance structures
to prevent corruption,
together with strong local
institutions, and businessconducive regulations,
cannot be overemphasized.

China: docks on the Huangpu river, which flows through the centre of Shanghai. The Huangpu is a tributary of the Yellow River, joining it just
before that river flows into the East China Sea, and thus the port has developed as a major import/export hub.
© Claudio Zaccherini/Shutterstock.com

46

Productivity and the Prosperity of Cities

major determinants in any city’s operational productivity.
In addition, cities at intermediate levels of development
should also enhance their technological capacities with a
sharper focus on higher education and training as well as
ICT infrastructure.
While the factors at work are less easy to grasp than
in the case of technical efficiency, experience from around
the world points to the importance of supporting research
and development in quality higher education and research
institutions with both public and corporate investment.
Promoting an entrepreneurial spirit, particularly among
youth, is a desirable strategy for any city, regardless of
development level or economic strength. Similarly, far
from a desirable though ultimately dispensable aspiration,
enhancing overall quality of life should be considered as
essential to any economic development strategy if a city is to
attract creative people and businesses.
Leadership will always be always a critical factor,
be it collective, as exercised through sound governance
systems, or individual, i.e. relying on a particularly inspiring

politician or local figure.
It takes leadership to
change the prevailing urban
paradigm and develop
the transformative vision
that will not just boost
productivity of a city, or
region, or even country, but
also broadly distribute the
associated benefits for the
sake of shared prosperity.

policy

To be able to
sustain higher
wages and the associated
standards of living, more
advanced cities need to
tap into innovation-driven
productivity gains by
supporting businesses’
ability to compete based
on more sophisticated
and innovative production
processes and products.

policy

To enhance productivity, cities at all stages of
development must seek support from a wide range
of stakeholders, including various public authorities, other urban
areas in the same region, and major economic actors, and set in
motion the process of desirable change.

Endnotes
1	

Bodin-Buyle Z., and C. Hermant-De Callataÿ (2011), Urban Prosperity and Quality of
Life in European cities – Beyond GDP, Background paper prepared for “State of the
World’s Cities Report 2012/2013” as part of EU /UN-Habitat collaboration.

2	

UN-Habitat (2010), State of the World’s Cities 2010/2011 : Cities for All: Bridging the
Urban Divide.,Earthscan,London

3	

European Commission (2009) Promoting Sustainable Urban Development in Europe:
Achievements and Opportunities. European Commission , Brussels

4	

World Bank (2012) World Bank Data: World Development Indicators & Global Development
Finance, Online database last updated July 9 2012, http://data.worldbank.org

5	

Buckley, R. and A. Kallergis (2011) The Wealth of Cities and Equitable Growth,
background paper for ‘State of the World Cities Report 2012/13’

6	

Buckley, R. and A. Kallergis (2011) op. cit.

7	

Buckley, R. and A. Kallergis (2011) op. cit.

8	

PricewaterhouseCoopers (2009) ‘Global city GDP rankings 2008-2025’
PricewaterhouseCoopers UK Economic Outlook, November 2009, London. http://www.
ukmediacentre.pwc.com/Media-Library/Global-city-GDP-rankings-2008-2025-61a.aspx

9	

Cities Alliance (2006) Guide to City Development Strategies: Improving Urban
Performance, Cities Alliance, Washington, D.C. http://www.citiesalliance.org/ca/sites/
citiesalliance.org/files/CA_Docs/resources/cds/cds-guidelines/role_of_cities.pdf

16	 As noted by Turok, see Jacobs,J. (1969) The Economy of Cities, London, Jonathan
Cape; Jacobs, J. (1984) Cities and the Wealth of Nations, New York, Random House;
Porter, M. (1998) ‘Clusters and the new economics of competitiveness’, Harvard
Business Review, December, pp.77-90.
17	 Bloomberg Business Week, April 23, 2011 as quoted by Buckley, R. and A. Kallergis
(2011) op. cit.
18	 Rio’s Operation Centre builds upon advanced technologies created by IBM Research
labs around the world.
19	 Astroman (2011) City Government and IBM Close Partnership to Make Rio
de Janeiro a Smarter City, January 3, http://www.astroman.com.pl/index.
php?mod=magazine&a=read&id=871
20	 Spirou, C. (2011) Urban Tourism and Urban Change: Cities in a Global Economy, New
York, Routledge,
21	 Mena, A. (2011) City Report on Doha. Unpublished UN-Habitat background study for
“State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”
22	 Kurtul,P. F. (2011) City Report on Gaziantep. Unpublished UN-Habitat background
study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”
23	 Al-Bassam, D. and J. Mouris (2011) City Report on Dubai. Unpublished UN-Habitat
background study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”
24	 Liu, Y. and Y. Wang (2011) City Report on Chongqing. Unpublished UN-Habitat
background study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

10	 Kenya’s 2008 GDP (PPP current International), total population, population in the
largest city: World Development Indicators (2012); Nairobi’s 2008 GDP (PPP):
PricewaterhouseCoopers (2009).

25	 PricewaterhouseCoopers (2010) Cities of opportunities. PricewaterhouseCoopers/
The Partnership for New York City, Inc. http://www.pwc.com/us/en/cities-ofopportunity/2011/pdfdownload.jhtml

11	 PricewaterhouseCoopers (2009) op. cit.
12	 UN-Habitat (2008) State of the World’s Cities Report 2008/09: Harmonious Cities.
UN-Habitat, Nairobi.

26	 China’s urban growth rates: UNDESA (WUP): US’ and Great Britain’s urban growth
rates: Buckley, R. and A. Kallergis (2011) op. cit.

13	 ActiveUKChina (2012) Business and economic distributions and clusters, http://www.
activeukchina.com/business-environment/business-and-economic-distributionsand-clusters/

27	 J Jin, L. and Y. Liu (2011) City Report on Shenzhen. Unpublished UN-Habitat
background study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”.
28	 PricewaterhouseCoopers (2009) op. cit.

14	 UN-Habitat (2008) op. cit.
15	 This section draws heavily from Turok, I. (2011) Urban Employment and the Prosperity of
Cities. Background paper prepared for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

47

Chapter 2.2

Urban Infrastructure:
Bedrock of Prosperity

contributes to the sustainability and economic growth
of urban areas, promotes the competitiveness of local
businesses, improves labour productivity, enhances the
investment climate in the city and contributes to its
attractiveness. Physical infrastructure like roads, power
and communication facilities, improves urban connectivity,
which is essential to induce growth and reduce poverty.
There is a positive link between the provision of
infrastructure and the level of urbanization. More
urbanized countries tend to provide more infrastructures
(Figure 2.2.1).

Infrastructure is crucial for the development, functionality
and prosperity of urban areas. It provides the foundation
on which any city will thrive. Adequate infrastructure –
improved water and sanitation, reliable and sufficient
power supply, efficient transport networks and modern
information and communication technologies (ICTs) –

Mexico: aerial view of Guadalajara.

fact

The cities that
have managed
to attract investment and
enhance competitiveness
in a highly globalized
economy are those that
have vastly improved the
range and quality of their
infrastructure. Conversely,
poor infrastructure is
a major impediment to
development, poverty
reduction and improved
standards of living.

© Jesus Cervantes/Shutterstock.com

policy

Cities that
fail to provide
adequate infrastructure are
less likely to be prosperous
and sustainable in terms
of balancing economic and
social development, and
environmental protection.1

48

Urban Infrastructure: Bedrock of Prosperity

Figure 2.2.1
Infrastructure provision is closely related to levels of urbanization
Access to water(%)

Access to sanitation(%)

100

100

90

90

80

80

70

70

r=0.4907

60
50

50

40

40

30

30

20

20

10

10

Improved water

0
0

10

20

30

40

50
60
% urban

70

80

90

r=0.4778

60

Improved sanitation

0
100

0

Trends in the Provision of Urban
Infrastructure: Important
Regional Variations

10

20

30

40

50
% urban

60

70

80

90

100

from 4.1 per cent to 5.6 per cent of GDP. The average for
Latin America and the Caribbean is under two per cent of
GDP3, compared with Africa’s estimated 5–6 per cent.4

Differences in infrastructure across regions have
implications for the prosperity of cities and reflect a variety
of factors, including levels of income or development,
economic growth, pace of urbanization, technical
capacities and political commitment. The lowest levels
of infrastructure provision are to be found in urban
Africa (average water and sanitation coverage is 89 and
69 per cent respectively; electricity: 69 per cent; paved
roads: 28 per cent; fixed telephone lines: 4 per cent;
mobile telephones and Internet connectivity: 57 and
10 per cent, respectively). Asian cities have strongly
invested in infrastructure development in the last few
decades, achieving nearly
universal provision of
water, electricity and
mobile telephone services.
Infrastructure is the
In particular, China has
most common entry
pursued a conscious
point to achieving
strategy of infrastructureprosperity in cities;
led growth since the
consequently,
prioritizing
1990s. Investment in
infrastructure is
this area increased from
part of long-term
5.7 per cent of GDP in
economic development
1998 to 14.4 per cent in
for most cities.
2006.2 During the same
social development,
period, India increased
and environmental
1
protection.
infrastructure spending

Makoko district of Lagos, Nigeria: a man bathes in fresh water
sold to him by a nearby wealthy family.
© Jacob Silberberg/Panos Pictures

policy

49

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

Figure 2.2.2
Infrastructure coverage by region
percentage of urban population
with improved water
per cent

percentage of urban population
with improved sanitation

percentage of urban population
with electricity

paved roads as a percentage
of total

100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10

fixed telephone lines

mobile cellular subscriptions

per 100 inhabitants
25

per 100 inhabitants
120

20

100

es

or
ld
W

C

De

ve

lo

pi

ng

co

un

tri

LA

As
ia

ric
a
Af

or
ld

es

W

C

De

ve

lo

pi

ng

co

un

tri

LA

As
ia

ric
a
Af

es

or
ld
W

C

De

ve

lo

pi

ng

co

un

tri

LA

As
ia

ric
a
Af

es

or
ld
W

C

De

ve

lo

pi

ng

co

un

tri

LA

As
ia

Af

ric
a

0

internet users

broadband (fixed) subscriptionsper

per 100 inhabitants
40

per 100 inhabitants
12

35

10

30
80

15

60
10

8

25

6

20
15

40

4

10

ld
or

es
tri

un
co
ng
De

ve

lo

pi

ng
pi
lo
ve
De

W

C
LA

ia
As

a
ric
Af

ld
or

es
tri

co

W

C
LA

ia

un

Af

As

a
ric

ld
or

es
tri

un
ng
De

ve

lo

pi

ng

co

W

C
LA

ia
As

a
ric
Af

es

or
W

0

0

pi
lo
ve
De

2

5

co

un

tri

LA

As

ric
Af

ld

0

C

0

ia

20

a

5

Source: WHO/UNICEF (2010); International Energy Agency (2010); International Road Federation (2009); ITU World Telecommunication/ICT Indicators
Database (2010)

Water Supply: When Good Governance
Changes the Equation

Lusaka, Lagos and Nairobi, which suffer continuous water
shortages. Despite 78 to 98 per cent of households in
four of these cities – Accra, Lagos, Nairobi and Lusaka –
benefiting from improved access to water, most experts
also mention them as experiencing severe water shortages.
Interestingly, despite its semi-arid climate and its location
in a water-scarce country, Gaborone is where shortages
are least severe, suggesting good water governance.
The water shortage pattern is more mixed in Asian
cities: half of the cities in the UN-Habitat survey experience
water shortages. Those with the more severe shortages
are Cebu, Davao, Bangalore, Lahore, and Hyderabad. In
Bangalore, water is supplied once in 46 hours for a period
of 2–3 hours.5 This trend had been observed by one analyst
who noted that: “no South Asian city can supply water

Adequate water supply is essential for environmental
sustainability and quality of life. Access to clean water
reduces morbidity and mortality, and improves the
productive abilities of the poor.
Water scarcity characterizes African cities. Although
official statistics reveal that 89 per cent of the urban
population in Africa is now enjoying improved water
supply, a large majority of Sub-Saharan African cities
experience regular water shortages. The UN-Habitat
survey shows that 11 of the 14 African cities (79 per cent)
under review are associated with serious such problems.
Experts concur that worst affected are Ibadan and Dar es
Salaam, closely followed by Accra, Addis Ababa, Luanda,
50

Urban Infrastructure: Bedrock of Prosperity

24/7 to its residents”.6 On the other hand, water scarcity is
unknown in Singapore, according to all local respondents to
the survey. Other cities where water shortages are perceived
to be relatively insignificant include Chongqing, Gaziantep,
Kuwait City and Shenzhen.
Water shortages vary a lot in Latin American cities:
The UN-Habitat survey revealed that eight of the
15 cities under review in this region were found to have
serious water shortages, including Havana, Panama City,
Guarenas (Venezuela), Lima, Ciudad del Este (Paraguay)
and Guadalajara. Cities with moderate water scarcity
are Tijuana, La Paz and Valparaíso. Those cities without
perceived water shortages are Medellín, Fort de France
(French Antilles) and Montevideo.
Differences in shortages across cities reflect local
conditions and the state of water management. In 2011,
Havana experienced its worst water shortage since 1961
due to the effects of drought and depletion of fresh
supplies as well as a deteriorated network (70 per cent in
poor condition).7 In contrast, regular supplies in Medellín
reflect sound management by Empresas Públicas de
Medellín (EPM), one of the most successful public utility
companies in Latin America. In 2009, EPM launched
the Water Programme Litros de Amor to provide free-ofcharge water (a daily 25 litres per head) to economically
poor households.8
Limited water shortages in Arab State cities: Despite
their typical location in hyper-arid regions, Arab state
cities generally do not suffer from severe water shortages.
However, according to local experts, three of the surveyed
cities are finding water supply a major challenge: Amman,
Basra and Saida (Lebanon). In Amman, the situation is
quite critical with supplies only once or twice a week.9
In Basra, the supply
falls short of around
Cities
33 per cent of the needs
authorities
of the population.10
need to systematically
Residents often complain
maintain their stock
about quality (taste,
of infrastructure to
smell and colour).11
ensure that the benefits
Arab cities deemed to be
of infrastructure are
fully capitalized. It
meeting their water needs
is in their interest to
include Aqaba, Doha,
improve coordination
Al-Muharrak (Bahrain),
with the different
Dubai and Erbil.
levels of government
There are remarkable
in the design, provision
inter-city
differences
and maintenance of
infrastructure.
in experts’ perceptions

fact

The success of Singapore in meeting local water demand
is down to effective water governance. The specialized
agency has developed a long-term strategy known as the Four
National Taps to ensure a robust and sustainable supply of
water. The strategy entails using water from different water
sources: water catchment, recycled water, desalinated water and
imported water.

fact

Many Arab cities are able to meet their water
requirements because of the high political priority
given to the provision of this public good.12 City authorities have
improved water security through increased supplies, demand
management, conservation and desalination.13

Saudi Arabia: an old water tower, a well-known feature in the
city of Riyadh.
© Fedor Selivanov/Shutterstock.com

policy

51

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

Box 2.2.1
Ranking of Urban Infrastructure
given to recreational infrastructure implies that access to public
spaces in many cities is limited, as indicated in Chapter 2.3
(Quality of Life). Similarly, the low priority given to urban transport
has wider-ranging implications, in this case for intra- and interurban mobility.

UN-Habitat survey experts report that across all developing
regions the least developed components of urban infrastructure
relate to recreation, sanitation and urban transport, while the
most developed is telecommunications; all of this has important
implications for urban prosperity. For instance, the low priority

Ranking <1 least developed to 5 most developed>
most developed

ranking
5.0

Africa

Asia

LAC

Arab States

All regions

4.5
4.0
3.5
3.0
2.5
2.0

1.0
0.5
W
Sa ate
ni r
Te
l
Tr ec E tatio
an om lec n
sp m tr
or un ici
t i ic ty
nf at
ra io
st ns
ru
Re ctu
cr re
ea
tio
n

W
Sa ate
ni r
Te
Tr lec E tatio
an om lec n
sp m tr
or un ici
t i ic ty
nf at
ra io
st ns
ru
Re ctu
cr re
ea
tio
n

W
Sa ate
ni r
Te
Tr lec E tatio
an om lec n
sp m tr
or un ici
t i ic ty
nf at
ra io
st ns
ru
Re ctu
cr re
ea
tio
n

W
Sa ate
ni r
Te
Tr lec E tatio
an om lec n
sp m tr
or un ici
t i ic ty
nf at
ra io
st ns
ru
Re ctu
cr re
ea
tio
n

0
W
Sa ate
ni r
Te
l
Tr ec E tatio
an om lec n
sp m tr
or un ici
t i ic ty
nf at
ra io
st ns
ru
Re ctu
cr re
ea
tio
n

least developed

1.5

Source: UN-Habitat, City Monitoring Branch, Policy Survey,

regarding the coverage and quality of urban infrastructure.
These differences are discussed below with respect to water,
roads and ICTs.

free movement and making travel frustrating and timeconsuming.14
Road infrastructure remains poor in African cities:
In most African cities, roads account for less than
seven per cent of land area, compared with 25–30 per cent
in developed cities.15 In cities such as Kinshasa, Kampala
and Ouagadougou, paved roads account for less than
12 per cent of the whole urban network. In many cities, the
road network has barely
kept pace with urban
growth: in Douala, for
Road
congestion,
instance, it has remained
poor facilities for
unchanged for the past 20
pedestrians, power
years despite a doubling of
outages and flooding
the population, increased
are major infrastructural
numbers of vehicles,
deficiencies, and thus
and urban sprawl.16 The
adversely affect the
prosperity of cities.
dysfunctional nature of

Trends in Road Infrastructure
The road network will rank amongst any city’s most prized
assets, as it facilitates the movement of people and goods.
Apart from access, road networks also form the basic grid
for trunk infrastructure for water, sanitation and power
supplies. Roads also contribute to effective mobility, which
is crucial for the prosperity of cities. Congested roads
and poor facilities for pedestrians are the most pervasive
transport problems affecting cities in developing countries.
The UN-Habitat survey shows that to a large majority
of experts – 96 per cent in Africa; 91 per cent in Asia;
88 per cent in Latin America; and 80 per cent in Arab
states – traffic congestion is the main form of infrastructure
deficiency plaguing cities in those regions, hindering

fact

52

Urban Infrastructure: Bedrock of Prosperity

road infrastructure in Africa poses a major challenge to
mobility and prosperity and is an important source of
congestion. In addition to this, poor maintenance is a major
problem: only 18.5 per cent of experts across African cities
believe that infrastructure is systematically maintained.
Some African cities have taken innovative steps to
enhance mobility and tackle traffic congestion. Lagos
introduced Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) in 2008. South Africa’s
Gauteng Province launched in 2010 the ‘Gautrain’, a stateof-the-art 80-km mass rapid transit railway system. Cities
like Nairobi and Dakar have achieved significant progress
in the development of road infrastructure increasing
prosperity prospects.
Significant improvements in road infrastructure in
Asian cities: In recent years, various Asian countries have
embarked on ambitious programmes of road development
and expansion. In 1997, India started the Golden
Quadrilateral motorway to connect the country’s largest
cities – Kolkata, Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai. An EastWest corridor has also been recently completed, not just
improving connections between cities but also opening up
the hinterlands. In China, cities have been at the forefront
of massive infrastructure development with emphasis on
new roads and subway systems. The urban road network
more than doubled between 1990 and 2003,19 largely
contributing to urbanization and economic growth. Cities
like Beijing and Shanghai have extended infrastructure to
suburban areas in a bid to match spatial expansion. Beijing
currently allocates 30 per cent of its construction budget to
mass transit20 and Shanghai spends 10 per cent of its GDP
on infrastructure, of which 40 per cent is for transportation.
Singapore’s public transportation system is considered to be
one of the most integrated and well-planned in the world.
In addition, adequate facilities are provided for pedestrians
with a safe and comfortable
walking environment that
enhances quality of life.
In major Asian
Massive economic
cities, some
growth in Asia, particularly
11 per cent of land
China and India, has
space is devoted to
spurred spectacular
roads, well below the
20–30 per cent rate
increases in the numbers
common in US cities.21
of motor vehicles. This
In Indian cities, the
has contributed to traffic
proportion varies from
congestion, air and
21 per cent in Delhi to
noise pollution, road
11 per cent in Mumbai
accidents and energy use
to five per cent in
22
Kolkata.
in the region. In India,

fact

A notable feature of the transport system in African cities
is the virtual absence of State-operated public transport.
The private sector is the major provider of transport services,
often in the form of secondhand mini- and microbuses, shared
taxis, and more recently commercial motorcycles.17 The needs of
pedestrians are hardly taken into consideration despite the fact
that walking accounts for over 60–70 per cent of trips in cities
such as Conakry, Douala or Kinshasa.18

the number of passenger
In India, public
vehicles increased by nine
transport accounts
million, or 12.9 per cent,
for only 22 per cent
between 2007 and 2008.23
of urban trips among
In China, the number of
ever-increasing numbers
of private vehicles.24 A
vehicles increased 10-fold
greater proportion of these
between 1990 and 2002; of
vehicles are concentrated
particular significance is the
in only a few cities: New
increase in motorcycles and
Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata
scooters, which increased
and Bangalore, which host
from just 200,000 in 1981
five per cent of India’s
population but 14 per cent
to 50 million in 2002.
of registered vehicles.25
Latin America and
the Caribbean region
features the highest level
of motorization in the
Cities must
developing world: the
address the
region has five times more
road congestion problems
cars than sub-Saharan
that adversely affect their
prosperity
Africa and Asia, and
about twice as many as the
Middle East and North
Africa.26 Motorization
in the region increased from 100 vehicles per 1,000 in
1990 to 155 in 2005, before reaching 169:1,000 in 2008.
Rising incomes, expanding middle classes, high levels of
urbanization, an expanding local automobile industry, and
availability of low-cost vehicles are the major forces driving
motorization in the region. As a result, cities in the region
experience severe traffic congestion. A great majority
of experts in the UN-Habitat survey (over 80 per cent)
indicate that the roads in their respective cities are
congested, costing the region USD2.2 billion a year in lost
productivity.27 Time spent in traffic deteriorates quality
of life, causing pollution, traffic accidents, increased fuel
consumption and emission of greenhouse gases.
In São Paulo, public transport as a share of all trips
declined from 46 per cent in 1977 to 33 per cent in 1997 and

fact

policy

fact

53

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

30 per cent.30 Factors behind these sharp declines include a
poor perception of public bus services; lack of information on
availability, routes and schedules; crime and safety concerns;
and the long distances that commuters have to walk to bus
stops/terminals.
Cities in the Arab States have the highest level of
vehicle ownership: The quality and maintenance of roads in
Arab cities are high when compared with other developing
countries. However, despite massive investment, the
expansion in road networks has not matched rapid increases
in vehicle numbers, or urban sprawl. Over the past two
decades, the Arab region has witnessed phenomenal rises in
motorization. In 2008, the total number of vehicles reached
26.7 million – growing at a 4.2 per cent annual average
between 1997 and 2008.31 In Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar, the
United Arab Emirates and Oman, the ratios of motor vehicles
per 1,000 stand at 509, 507, 724, 313 and 225, respectively.32
Factors behind this trend include the affluence occasioned by
the oil-driven economic boom, a strong preference for private
cars, subsidized fuel, greater availability of car loans, and lack
of effective mass transit systems. High levels of motorization
in Arab cities have led to
chronic traffic congestion.
The traffic situation in
Dubai typifies those of cities
in the Gulf Cooperation
Council countries: with
over one million cars,
the ownership ratio –
541:1,000 – exceeds those
of London (345) and New
York (444).33
Dubai‘s Metro began
operating as a fully
automated rail transit

fact

A trend closely associated with motorization in Latin
American and Caribbean cities is the decreasing share of
public transport.

policy

It would be in the best interests of cities to develop
sustainable public transport solutions that have
positive repercussions on all ‘spokes’ of prosperity.

down to 29 per cent in 2001.28 In Havana, the total number
of public transport users declined from 3.5 million in 1991
to 540,000 in 2011.29 In
Guadalajara the use of
private cars increased
Bogotá and Curitiba
feature the highest
from 30 to 50 per cent of
shares of dedicated bus
all trips between the years
lanes in the region, which
2000 and 2010, while the
have served as models for
number of public transport
BRT across the world.
users declined from 60 to

fact

fact

Curitiba, Brazil: a tubular bus station and sleek, modern bus, part of the city’s integrated transport system.
© Paul Smith/Panos Pictures

54

Public
transport
systems are inadequate
in many cities of this
region. For instance,
in Beirut, fewer
than 10 per cent of
commuters are served
by public transport34;
in Amman, the
corresponding figure is
14 per cent.35

Urban Infrastructure: Bedrock of Prosperity

system in 2009, and when fully operational in 2012 is
expected to reduce car use by 30 per cent.36 In 2010, the
Greater Amman Municipality launched a USD175 million

BRT project along three busy corridors totaling 32km; when
completed in 2012, the system will have a transport capacity
of 6,000 passengers per hour.37

Box 2.2.2
Information and communication technologies (ICTs) and the Prosperity of Cities
estimated average USD56 billion or 3.5 per cent of GDP, to the
regional economy every year,41 as well as employment for over
five million Africans.

Over the past decade, worldwide expansion in ICTs has been
nothing short of phenomenal. In the sole mobile telephony
area, for instance, the total number of subscriptions increased
from 962 million in 2001 to six billion in 2011 – resulting in a
worldwide ratio of 867:1,000.38 It is worth noting that developing
countries account for over 75 per cent of global mobile cellular
subscriptions. No other component of infrastructure has
witnessed such spectacular growth. Advances in ICTs and
liberalization of telecommunications markets have led to wealth
creation and economic growth, with cities the major beneficiaries.
ICTs play a major role in any city’s competitiveness, productivity
and prosperity as they facilitate innovation, efficiency and
effective service delivery. An overwhelming majority of surveyed
experts – 85 per cent in Africa; 96 per cent in Asia; 86 per cent in
Latin America and the Caribbean; and 90 per cent in Arab States –
rank telecommunications infrastructure as ‘highly developed’ or
‘developed’ in their cities.

ICTs in Asian cities: Mobile telephony has also expanded
dramatically in this region. India’s four major cities – Delhi,
Mumbai, Kolkata and Chennai – feature mobile telephone
connection rates of 138 per cent, 112 per cent, 102 per cent and
143 per cent respectively.42 In Singapore, telecommunications
infrastructure is highly developed. In 2010, the household fixedline penetration rate was 103 per cent, and the mobile population
penetration rate was 144 per cent, with 82 per cent of households
having access to Internet.43 ICTs are major contributors to
economic growth in Asia accounting for USD485 billion, or
2.7 per cent of GDP; they also provide 11.4 million jobs – for
each job created by a mobile operator, eight additional ones
are generated.44 The major role played by the mobile telephone
sector has seen it act as a buffer against economic recession in
the region.

fact

In Africa, the total number of mobile telephone
connections has grown an average 30 per cent
per annum since 2001, and by 2011 over 60 per cent
of the population was connected. In Asia-Pacific,
the number of mobile connections increased from
824 million in 2005 to three billion in 2011– making
the region the largest mobile telephone market in
the world. Remarkable growth rates have also been
recorded in the Middle East, where the number of mobile
connections increased from 177 million in 2007 to
334 million in 2011.39

ICTs in Latin American cities: The ownership of mobile
telephones is fairly widespread. Urban areas in Brazil, Chile,
Panama, and Paraguay feature the highest connection rates, with
at least 80 per cent of households owning mobile telephones.45
In major Mexican cities, ownership varies between 66 and
84 per cent of the population. Compared with Africa and Asia,
fixed lines are more developed in Latin American cities. For
instance, between 41 per cent and 68 per cent of households
in Mexico’s major cities have fixed lines. The mobile telephone
industry contributes significantly to the region’s economy:
1.7 per cent of regional GDP46 (or USD82 billion) in 2010.
Increases in mobile telephone connectivity have also been found
to boost GDP per capita.

ICTs in African cities: Mobile telephones have leapfrogged
landlines in Africa when compared with developed regions that
invested in landlines before moving to mobile networks.40 At least
90 per cent of households in Abuja, Accra, Dakar, Lagos, Luanda
and Nairobi own mobile telephones; even where ownership
of mobile telephones appears to be low, it hardly falls below
50 percent. The use of mobile telephones surpasses fixed lines
in virtually all cities. In Kinshasa, there are 119 times as many
households owning mobile telephones as fixed lines. In Lagos,
Harare, Kampala and Mombasa, households are 12 times more
likely to own mobile telephones than landlines. Apart from
facilitating connectivity and communication, the cell-phone
industry also serves as a catalyst for growth, contributing an

ICTs in Arab States cities: Urban ownership of mobile
telephones in Arab States, especially Gulf Cooperation Council
countries, is widespread. Penetration rates in Doha, Dubai,
Amman, Kuwait, Muscat and Riyadh are in excess 100 per cent
(Dubai’s penetration rate is the highest in the world with over
200 mobile telephones per 100 residents). The UAE and other Gulf
Cooperation Council countries have invested in ITC-dedicated
parks as a boost to socioeconomic growth and diversification
away from an oil-dependent to a knowledge-based economy. The
ICT sector plays a significant role in the region’s economy. In the
case of the UAE, the sector contributed 5.3 per cent to GDP in
2010, up from 4.1 per cent in 2007, and currently employs over
11,500.47

55

to

ic

om

Ec
on
he
al

gr
ow
th
M
th
ob
&
i
ed lity
u
Qu cati
o
al
ity n
of
En
Ur
Im viro ban life
nm G
pr
ov
en row
in
Re
ta
th
g
du
slu l qu
cin
m
al
i
g
sp con ty
di
at
t
ia
l d ions
isp
ar
iti
es
Ec
o
no
Ac
m
ce
ic
ss
gr
to
ow
he
th
al
M
th
ob
&
i
ed lity
u
Qu cati
o
al
ity n
of
En
Ur
Im viro ban life
nm G
pr
ov
en row
in
Re
ta
th
g
du
slu l qu
cin
m
al
i
g
sp con ty
di
at
t
ia
l d ions
isp
ar
iti
es
Ec
on
Ac
om
ce
ic
ss
gr
ow
to
he
th
al
M
th
ob
&
ili
ty
ed
u
Qu cati
o
al
ity n
of
En
Ur
Im viro ban life
nm G
pr
ov
en row
in
Re
ta
th
g
du
slu l qu
cin
m
al
i
g
sp con ty
di
at
t
ia
l d ions
isp
ar
iti
es

Ac
ce
ss

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

Box 2.2.3

Infrastructure Development and the Dimensions of Prosperity
Contribution of Infrastructure to the Prosperity of Cities

100
per cent

per cent
Africa

LAC

Asia

90

80

70

policy

60

50

40

30

Consistent and
targeted investments
in transport and
communications
infrastructure are a
major factor behind
urban prosperity.

20

10

0

100
Arab States

Source: UN-Habitat, City Monitoring Branch, Policy Survey, 2011

56
All cities

90

80

70

60

50

40

30

20

10

0

Urban Infrastructure: Bedrock of Prosperity

It is possible to identify the specific contributions adequate
infrastructure can make to the prosperity of cities, but it must be
remembered that they are interrelated and interact with one another
in a variety of ways. As perceived by experts participating in the
UN-Habitat survey, these contributions are the following (by order
of decreasing importance): economic growth; facilitating mobility;
improving access to health and education; improving quality of life;
steering spatial expansion; environmental quality; improving slum
conditions and reducing poverty; and reducing spatial disparities.
These eight types of contribution are presented in the charts for the
four regions under review.
Economic Growth: Infrastructure plays a crucial role in supporting
economic growth, and it is worth noting that the reverse causal
relationship also holds – that is, infrastructure benefits from
economic growth. Infrastructure contributes to growth through
enhanced productivity of the factors of production. Indeed between
1990 and 2005, improved infrastructure contributed one per cent
to per capita economic growth in Africa, and 1.2 per cent in
Asia.48 In Africa, the greatest impact has been attributed to
telecommunications and, to a lesser extent, roads.
Facilitating Mobility: Seamless movement within and between
cities thanks to efficient mass transit systems is essential to the
proper functionality and prosperity of cities. Cities that have deployed
sustainable transport policies to enhance mobility have reaped huge
advantages that positively impact on the other ‘spokes’ of prosperity.
In Bogotá and Curitiba, for instance, BRT makes both cities more
livable in very tangible ways, including reducing traffic congestion,
decreasing travel times and costs, reducing energy consumption and
improving environmental quality.
Access to health and education: Infrastructure facilitates access
to health and education, which are essential components of
human development and feature prominently among Millennium
Development Goals. Healthy children learn better and healthy
adults work better – both being major assets to the city. Education
is crucial to empowerment, reducing poverty and enhancing
productivity. Cities with a healthier, better-educated workforce are
more likely to be productive and competitive.

policy

The provision of infrastructure must take into
consideration the needs of women.

Steering spatial expansion: Infrastructure can steer the spatial
expansion of a city, facilitating more compact urban development
and integrating different land uses. This urban form is deemed
to be efficient, inclusive and sustainable in four different ways:
(1) the costs of infrastructure are cheaper; (2) access to services
and facilities is improved; (3) the livelihoods of the urban poor are
enhanced; and (4) social segregation is reduced.
Environmental quality: Many developing country cities are
characterized by inadequate water supply and squalid conditions in
terms of sanitation. These two components of infrastructure are vital
to improved environmental conditions in cities, as they facilitate a
clean and pollution-free environment. On top of this, flood-control
infrastructure safeguards urban areas against erosion, flooding,
landslides and disasters.
Improving slum conditions and reducing poverty: Infrastructure
can contribute to the prosperity of cities through improved slum
conditions and reducing poverty. Providing adequate infrastructure
for roads, water, sanitation and electricity can reduce the health
burden faced by slum dwellers, delivering major benefits in terms of
environmental quality.
Reducing spatial disparities: Infrastructure can reduce spatial
disparities, particularly in uncontrolled and un-serviced peri-urban
areas, connecting them to consolidated parts of the city.

policy

Beneficiary communities must be fully
involved in the design, provision and
maintenance of infrastructure.

Improving quality of life: Infrastructure can improve quality of
life in a variety of ways, including: enhancing safety and security,
especially for youth and women; and expanding the provision of
public goods to enhance the city’s appeal.

57

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

Endnotes
1	

2	

Choguill, C. (1996) “Ten steps to sustainable infrastructure”, Habitat International, Vol.
20(3), pp. 389-4044; Teriman, S., T. Yigitcanlar, and S. Mayere (2010) ‘Sustainable
urban infrastructure development in south east Asia : evidence from Hong Kong,
Kuala Lumpur and Singapore’ in Yigitcanlar, T. (ed.) Sustainable Urban and Regional
Infrastructure Development : Technologies, Applications and Management, IGI Global,
Hershey, Pennsylvania

23	 Uddin, A. (2009) ‘Traffic Congestion in Indian Cities: Challenges of a Rising Power’,
paper presented at the conference Kyoto of the Cities, Naples, March 26-28,
2009, http://www.visionwebsite.eu/UserFiles/File/filedascaricare/Scientifci%20
Partners,Papers(Kyoto)/Draft_koc_Azeem%20Uddin.pdf

Lall, R., R. Anand and A. Rastogi (2010) ‘Developing physical Infrastructure: A
comparative perspective on the experience of China and India’, in Gerhaeusser K.,
Iwasaki, Y. and V. B. Tulasidhar, (eds) Resurging Asian Giants’ Asian Development
Bank, Manila, pp.57-114.

25	 Uddin, A (2009) op.cit.

24	 HPEC (2011) Report on Indian Urban Infrastructure and Services,National Institute of
Urban Affairs, New Delhi
26	 Estimated from World Bank (2011)
27	 Canassa, H. (2008) ‘São Paulo Traffic Jams Mean Lost Business, Stress, Helicopters’,
Bloomberg, July 14, http://www.bloomberg.com/apps/news?pid=newsarchive&sid=
aAwzOeXmIxgk

3	

Fay, M. and M. Morrison (2005) Infrastructure in Latin America and the Caribbean:
Recent Developments and Key Challenges, World Bank, Washington,DC.

4	

Foster, V., and C. Briceno-Garmendia (2010) Africa’s Infrastructure: A Time for
Transformation, World Bank, Washington, DC.

5	

Belliapa, S.G. (2011) City Report on Bangalore. Unpublished UN-Habitat background
study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/13”

28	 Vicentini, V. L.(2010) ‘Lessons from urban transport in Latin America and the
Caribbean’, presentation at the 2010 ADB Transport Forum, May 25-27, Manila;
Luoma, J., M. Sivak and S. Zielinski (2010) The Future of Personal Transportation in
Megacities of the World, Transportation Research Institute, University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor

6	

Harris, C (2008) “India Leads Developing Nations in Private Sector Investment”,
Gridlines, No.3, March 2008, http://www.pppinindia.com/pdf/gridlines.pdf

29	 Coyula, M. (2011) City Report on Havana. Unpublished UN-Habitat background study
for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

7	

Latin American Herald Tribune (2011) ‘Cuban Capital Faces Worst Water Shortage in
50 Years’, Latin American Herald Tribune, http://laht.com/article.asp?ArticleId=3915
53&CategoryId=14510

30	 Perez, F. (2011) City Report on Guadajara. Unpublished UN-Habitat background study
for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”.

8	

López , M (2011) Water Distribution as an Indicator of Social Inequality: The Case of
Medellín, Colombia, http://www.centrodametropole.org.br/static/uploads/marcela_l.pdf

9	

Shabou, A., N. Soboh, K. Jalouka, and D. A. Thaib (2011) City Report on Amman.
Unpublished UN-Habitat background study for “State of the World’s Cities Report
2012/2013”

31	 ESCWA (2009) Transport for Sustainable Development in the Arab Region: Measures,
Progress Achieved, Challenges and Policy Framework, United Nations, New York,
http://www.uncclearn.org/sites/www.uncclearn.org/files/unescwa14.pdf
32	 World Bank (2011) World Development Indicators, World Bank, Washington, DC.
33	 Shariff, O. (2007) ‘Dubai Traffic Woes Inflict Losses of Dh4.6b a Year’, Gulf News,
December 13, http://gulfnews.com/business/shipping/dubai-traffic-woes-inflictlosses-of-dh4-6b-a-year-1.75892; Raouf, M. A. (2009)’Towards sustainable
transportation’, Gulf News, September 18, http://gulfnews.com/opinions/columnists/
towards-sustainable-transportation-1.539872

10	 Karim, S. S.A. (2011) City Report on Basra. Unpublished UN-Habitat background study
for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”
11	 Takechi, A (2010) Basrah Water Supply from viewpoint of Its Water Sources, http://
www.waterforum.jp/jpn/iraq/doc/expert_meeting/session/4_2.pdf

34	 Kollock, P. (2010) ‘Still Sitting in Beirut Traffic’, NOW Lebanon, May 5 http://www.
nowlebanon.com/NewsArchiveDetails.aspx?ID=166121

12	 Although the region is the least provided in the world, with just 1.4 per cent of the
planet renewable freshwater. {Roudi-Fahimi, F., L. Creel and R. M. De Souza (2002)
Finding the Balance: Population and Water Scarcity in the Middle East and North
Africa, MENA Policy Brief, Population Reference Bureau, Washington, DC}

35	 Shabou, A., N. Soboh, K. Jalouka, and D. A. Thaib (2011) op. cit.
36	 Raouf, M. A. (2009) op. cit.
37	 Al-Rawashdeh, A. (2011) “New bus system aims to reduce Amman’s traffic
congestion”, Al-Shorfa.com, January 26, http://al-shorfa.com/en_GB/articles/meii/
features/main/2011/01/26/feature-02

13	 The Arab State’s Region is host to 65 of the world’s 100 largest desalination plants.
{Pacific Institute (2011) The World’s Water Volume 7: The Biennial Report on
Freshwater Resources, Table 21, http://www.worldwater.org/data.html}

38	 International Telecommunication Union (2010) World Telecommunication/ICT
Indicators Database, http://www.itu.int/ITU-D/ict/statistics/

14	 The economic costs of traffic congestion are staggering: in the US in 2010 it
was put at $101 billion in terms of lost productivity and wasted fuel, or $713 per
commuter per year; in Mauritius, traffic congestion in cities costs the economy 1.3
per cent of GDP. {African Economic Outlook (2011) Mauritius: Overview, http://www.
africaneconomicoutlook.org/en/countries/southern-africa/mauritius/}

39	 GSM Association (2011a) Asia Pacific Mobile Observatory 2011, GSMA, London
40	 Aker, J. C. and I. M. Mbiti, (2010) ‘Mobile telephones and economic development in
Africa’, Journal of Economic Perspectives, Vol. 24(3), pp. 207-232
41	 GSM Association (2011b) Africa Mobile Observatory 2011, GSMA, London

15	 Kumar , A., and F. Barrett (2008) Stuck in Traffic: Urban Transport in Africa, World
Bank, Washington, DC

42	 Philip, J. T. (2009) ‘Average Urban Teledensity Crosses 100% Mark’, The Economic
Times, December 12, http://articles.economictimes.indiatimes.com/2009-12-12/
news/28416388_1_cent-mark-mobile-connections-teledensity

16	 Kumar,A. (2011) Understanding the Emerging Role Of Motorcycles in African
Cities: A Political Economy Perspective, Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy
Program Discussion Paper No. 13, World Bank, http://siteresources.worldbank.org/
EXTAFRSUBSAHTRA/Resources/1513929-1262811948762/DP13-Role-Motorcycles.
pdf

43	 Centre for Livable Cities (2011) City Report on Singapore. Unpublished UN-Habitat
background study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”
44	 GSM Association (2011a) op. cit.
45	 Fernández-Ardèvol, M. (2010) ‘Household access to mobile telephony in Latin
America’, in Sevensson, J. and G. Wicander, (eds.): Proceedings of the 2nd
International Conference on M4D,Mobile Communication Technology for
Development, 10-11 November, Kampala, Uganda, pp. 60-69.

17	 In 2007, Lagos had over 100,000 minibuses and 200,000 commercial motorcycles
directly employing 500,000 people. Kumar (2011)
18	 Kumar and Barrett (2008), op. cit.
19	 The network increased from 95,000 to 208,000 km from 1990 to 2003. Pucher et
al (2007)

46	 GSM Association (2011c) Latin American Mobile Observatory 2011, GSMA London

20	 McKinsey Global Institute (2009) Preparing for China’s Urban Billion, McKinsey and
Company.

47	 Telecommunications and Regulatory Authority (2011) UAE Telecommunications
Sector Developments and Indicators, 2007 –2010.

21	 World Bank (2002) Cities on the Move: A World Bank Urban Transport Strategy
Review, World Bank, Washington, DC.

48	 Calderón, C (2008) “Infrastructure and growth in Africa”, Policy Research Working
Paper 4914, World Bank, Washington, DC

22	 Pucher, J., Z. Peng, N. Mittal, Y. Zhu,and N. Korattyswaroopam (2007) ‘Urban transport
trends and policies in China and India: Impacts of rapid Economic growth’, Transport
Reviews, Vol. 27 (4), pp. 379–410

58

Chapter 2.3

Quality of Life and
Urban Prosperity

which reflects representative
individuals’ beliefs and
The choice
values in 54 countries around
of indicators
reflects the audience for
the world.5 More recent
which the indices are
measurements of quality of
being created. The UNlife combine subjective and
Habitat city prosperity
objective measures. In 2003,
index is primarily aimed
the European Environmental
at city leaders and
Agency investigated eight
national governments.
Therefore, the quality
domains of individual
of life indicators in the
life situations in 25 EU
index include health
member states, ranging
and education and
from economic situation,
various infrastructure
housing and employment
indicators.
to work-life balance, health,
subjective well-being and
perceived quality of life.6
The international human resource consulting firm, Mercer,
focuses on the quality of life of expatriates, taking in criteria
such as availability of consumer goods, the economic
environment, the natural, political and social environments
as well as recreation amenities.7

fact

Today no one disputes that quality of life is essential
for a city to prosper. The notion is increasingly used by
decision-makers, practitioners and urban populations
alike. Everyone agrees on its importance, but everyone
will also agree that this notion comes with different
meanings and facets. Many efforts have been made to
develop a policy-oriented definition, yet the essence
of quality of life remains vague when applied to urban
areas. Despite these different views and understandings,
the very basic notion remains largely similar both in the
developed and the developing world: peoples in Jakarta,
Naples, Los Angeles or Bogotá will, to large extent,
share similar concerns, including decent employment,
material wellbeing, fulfilling family lives and good
health. Individuals and specific circumstances may
value one of these factors over others; yet, as noted in
the Report by the French Government Commission on
the Measurement of Economic Performance and Social
Progress (2009), these constitute “the most important
features that give life its value.”1

Quality of Life: A Synthesis of All
Dimensions of Prosperity
Quality of life underpins the
functionality of cities: the
notion is at the crossroads
of all policies and actions8,
and a synthesis of all the
dimensions of prosperity.
When a city generates
employment and economic
growth, quality of life
improves. When a city
designs better buildings

Measuring Quality of Life
Recently, efforts have turned from definition to scientific
measurement of quality of life. To Nobel laureate
Amartya Sen, quality of life is determined by the various
opportunities open to individuals, and their freedom to
choose from these many opportunities.3 Other conceptual
approaches measure quality of life based on the notion of
subjective well-being and on economic notions drawn from
welfare economics.4 The most comprehensive subjective
measurement of quality of life is the World Values Survey,
59

fact

“Quality of life
is often tied
to the opportunities
available to people,
to the meaning and
purpose they attach to
their lives and to the
extent to which they
enjoy the possibilities
available to them”.2

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

and public spaces that
provide attractive,
secure, clean and
durable surroundings,
it is improving quality
of life. When a city
provides adequate
public transport, it
improves quality of
life for both users
and non-users. When a city raises levels of education and
provides good healthcare it is ensuring quality of life for
the foreseeable future. And when a city reduces the use
of environmental resources and becomes more energyefficient, it also improves quality of life.
According to the
UN-Habitat survey
(2011), on balance experts
value security to live
and work freely, good
quality of education,
adequate housing with
basic services, and
meaningful employment
and decent income as the
most important factors

promoting quality of life and prosperity in their cities.
In Europe, a survey on perceived quality of life in
75 cities (2010) shows that ‘the three most important issues
for the city’ were: educational facilities, job creation/reduce
unemployment and the availability and quality of health
services, among seven other alternatives such as social
services, housing conditions, air pollution, noise, public
transport, infrastructure and safety.9
It remains that, as perceived by experts and residents
in developing and developed countries alike, the quality of
urban life is a broader concept that includes a full range of
factors such as economic development, living standards,
material progress and individual and collective wellbeing,
which all are important dimensions of prosperity.

policy

Cities that
improve quality
of life experience higher
levels of prosperity; they
are also likely to find
themselves more advanced
in terms of sustainability.

fact

Experts from
52 cities consider
quality of life as the second
most important dimension
promoting prosperity in
cities, after infrastructure
development.

policy

It is in any city’s
best interest to
promote public goods such
as public transport, green
areas and public spaces
and ‘urban commons’ such
as safety and security and
political participation in
order to enhance quality of
life and shared prosperity.

Accessibility, environmental sustainability and health: cyclists on dedicated cycle lanes in
Copenhagen, Denmark.
© Anne-Britt Svinnset/Shutterstock.com

60

Quality of Life and Urban Prosperity

Treating Quality of Life as a By-product

employment opportunities
Social equity
but also contribute to
and quality of
higher quality of life. But
life go hand in hand. In
there may also be negative
practice, though, any
consequences.
policies and actions
However, UN-Habitat
aiming to expand
policy analysis shows that
societal well-being
largely depend on
most surveyed cities in the
the political will of
developing world have
governments and the
no clear policies, actions
degree of participation
and reliable procedures
of civil society
to deliver and expand
organizations and, in
quality of life to the whole
particular, their degree
of autonomy when it
population. With the
comes to advocating,
exceptions of Singapore,
upholding and fighting
Davao, Ho Chi Minh
for the rights of all.
City and Chon Qing in
Asia, Fort-de-France and
Medellín in Latin America
and the Caribbean, and
When a city
focuses solely
Doha in the Arab States
on
economic
prosperity, it is
(whose commitment to
very
likely
that
the benefits
quality of life was highly
and improvements in terms
commended), experts
of quality of life may not be
took a critical view of the
geared to the urban poor,
42 other cities on that
particularly in those cities
where corruption and poor
count. They found public
governance are endemic.
administrations to be
generally inefficient and
with poor incentives to
devise specific quality of
life policies for lack of adequate financial resources, trained
staff or political interest.
Positive exceptions can be found, such as Cebu,
Singapore, Dubai, and Ho Chi Minh City, where, in the
words of a local expert, “investing in human resources is
considered to be the best way of seizing more opportunities
and turning them into wealth and quality of life to make the
city more prosperous”.11 In Cebu, a local expert argues that
“it is not only a matter of expanding the pie (i.e., economic

fact

UN-Habitat survey results show that the more committed
the city is to promote quality of life, the more the chances
that the effects will be broad-ranging. There is a clear
positive association between a high degree of commitment
to address quality of life and the possibility of designing
specific policies. Unfortunately, the opposite also applies,
and many cities treat quality of life as a by-product or an
‘after-effect’ of policy interventions. Even where some cities
perform well under other dimensions of prosperity, they
fail to deliver better quality of life. Abidjan, Dakar, Dar
es Salam and Kampala illustrate well this situation: they
feature moderate or weak values in the “City Prosperity
Index”, but rank even much lower for quality of life, which
goes to show that this dimension cannot be considered as an
indirect component of any urban policy agenda.
A number of studies have shown that the various
determinants of quality of life generate complex interactions
and diverse causal relations. Sometimes, efforts to promote
one element can have unexpected detrimental effects
on other elements; for example, prioritizing economic
growth per se can result in negative environmental
impacts. In other cases, positive linkages between
these determinants are quite obvious; for instance, the
provision of green open spaces brings health benefits to
the population. In some other cases, the relationship can
be less evident; for example, individual housing choices
may have environmental impacts that affect quality of
life in different ways.10 All too often, cities do not clearly
perceive the complexity of these interactions and assume
that interrelations will always be positive. Several cities
in Asia and the Arab States that are experiencing high
economic growth are mostly focusing on infrastructure
development in the pursuit
of higher productivity and
Cities
therefore higher incomes,
that focus
assuming that this will lead
only on economic
to better quality of life in
development and
the long term. Generally,
provide services that
that is what happens,
are not public goods,
since economic growth
may leave the urban
poor, migrants, ethnic
increases purchasing power
minorities and other
and demand for goods
vulnerable groups with
and services including
serious difficulties to
education, entertainment,
pay for the improved
financial services and
services, reducing the
housing, which, in turn,
possibilities for them to
enjoy quality of life.
not only create new

policy

policy

fact

Experts in 60 per cent of surveyed cities in Africa
and Arab States and slightly more than 40 per cent
of cities in Asia and Latin America believe that corruption and
poor governance conspire against local prosperity and quality
of life.

61

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

a key competitive advantage that contributes to promoting
city productivity, attracting and retaining highly qualified
individuals and prestigious firms and investors. Priority is
given to those most easily perceived elements of quality of
life such as parks, clean sidewalks, leisure, art and culture
amenities as well as hospitals. Although not generalized
to all the population, the pursuit of prosperity through
quality of life is an interesting connection and entry point
to development.

policy

Cities that are committed to quality of life are almost
always committed to enhanced productivity and equity,
emphasizing the strong relation between these dimensions.

development), but dividing the pie and ensuring that the
poor benefit, too (i.e., equity and quality of life)”.12 Dubai,
as other cities in the Arab Gulf, recognizes quality of life as

Box 2.3.1
Quality of Life – the ‘Spokes’ and the ‘Hub’ of the Wheel of Urban Prosperity
Quality of life and equity
Quality of life and equity are constitutive of progress and
development. No city can claim to be prosperous when large
segments of its population are excluded or live in abject poverty,
or when large sections of the population are deprived of basic
goods or services while other sections live in affluence. Cities
that look to more equity in the distribution of resources and
opportunities, in law enforcement, in the rules and relationships
that govern institutions and in access to public goods will be those
where shared prosperity and quality of life are improved. More
equitable cities enhance the prospects for people to take part in
democratic processes and participate in a more decisive manner
in cultural and political life. The benefits of social participation
and political voice extend to other domains such as health,
employment and the urban environment.

Quality of life and productivity
Productivity and quality of life are increasingly associated. Skilled
workers and talented people will flock to, and concentrate in,
liveable cities with high quality of life, and firms will follow suit.
Consulting firms rank cities based on their ‘good living’ factors to
make informed locational decisions. High human capital, which
is a main ingredient of quality of life, attracts firms that cluster in
cities to take advantage of common labour pools. Well-planned
and designed urban environments, with pedestrian-friendly areas,
bicycle paths, mix-land uses and sufficient public goods, attract
people and businesses which, in turn, contribute to finance further
social amenities and public goods. More and more city leaders
are investing in education and the provision of ‘commons’ and
public goods as part of a quality of life. Inversely, cities that do
not invest in quality of life tend to feature poor public health, low
education, limited mobility, and marginalization of the urban poor,
all resulting in low productivity.

Quality of Life and Environmental Sustainability
Environmental conditions have an immediate impact on the
quality of people’s lives. They affect human health both directly
(air, water pollution, noise) and indirectly (climate change,
biodiversity). Well-managed urban commons and public goods
can improve environmental conditions and quality of life.
Conversely, the pursuit of short-term quality of life objectives can
be detrimental to the more long-term sustainability objectives
that collectively affect the lives of the whole population.
Indeed, individual short-term aspirations to quality of life, such
as affordable, low-density housing, can act as major factors
behind urban sprawl, which in turn is detrimental to the natural
environment through higher use of land, energy and water, along
with greenhouse gas emissions.

Quality of life and infrastructure development
The prosperity of a city largely depends on infrastructure.
Physical facilities like transportation, power and communications
contribute to economic development, industrialization, trade and
mobility of labour. Water supply, sanitation and sewerage, together
with education and health facilities, have a direct impact on
quality of life. All of these types of infrastructure connect people
to people, goods to markets, workers to jobs, families to services,
and the poor in rural areas to urban centres − a connectivity
process that is essential to induce economic growth, reduce
poverty and increase general well-being. More and more cities
today are launching into ambitious initiatives to expand/improve
infrastructure to sustain economic growth, prepare for population
decline, address climate change issues and/or reduce slum
incidence. Conversely, under-developed infrastructure makes life
more difficult and more costly: poor facilities discourage industrial
development, trade and investment and reduce competitiveness,
besides generating air pollution, wasted time, fuel and safety
costs, noise and more greenhouse gas emissions.

Quality of life and the ‘hub’ of the wheel of prosperity
Effective institutions, more appropriate laws and regulations,
proper urban planning and new value systems are essential
power functions and can make sure that policies, actions and
solutions involving any of the ‘spokes’ of prosperity can have
positive effects on the others.

Sources: Glaeser, E. and Berry, C. (2005); Gidwani, V. and Baviskar, A. (2011); European Environment Agency (2009); Stiglitz Joseph, Sen Amartya,
Fitoussi Jean-Paul (2009); UN-Habitat (2008/9); Jones, Harry (2009); Lalnunmawia H, (2010); AusAid (2009).

62

Quality of Life and Urban Prosperity

Quality of Life: A Variety of Local Responses

fact

Experts in Beira, Algiers, Praia, Luanda and Addis
Ababa, among others, explicitly link improved quality
of life to slum upgrading and poverty reduction.

UN-Habitat has identified some convergent and divergent
forms in which cities address quality of life.
Divergent city responses: Actions to improve quality of
life will largely depend on the stage of development of the
relevant country or city.
In most poor cities in the developing world, quality of
life is strongly associated with the provision of public goods
in the form of basic services such as water, sanitation and
electricity, and improvements in slum neighbourhoods.
Tanzania’s National Development Vision 2025 aims at
high quality of life for all the population, linking this notion
to economic growth and poverty reduction.13 In Ho Chi
Minh City, quality of life is directly linked to improved
drainage, sewage collection and treatment systems, and
other public infrastructures such as road enlargements.
In middle-income countries, governments link quality of
life to various factors, from improved living environments
and enhanced material well-being to higher incomes. Experts
in cities as diverse as Fort-de-Fran ce (Martinique), Habana,
Cebu, Davao, and Beirut explicitly refer to the provision of a
decent house and a healthy environment as essential elements
for improved well-being and quality of life. In other cities
−Rosario, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Alexandria and Guarenas
(Venezuela) − improved solid waste disposal is perceived as
a major condition for better quality of life. Improvements
in healthcare services appear as another major factor. In
Singapore, Doha, Chongqing and Shenzhen, local experts
implicitly refer to good and affordable medical services for
all as a good way of improving quality of life. Shenzhen’s
universal healthcare system
and Tehran’s Urban Heart
Programme are good
Box 2.3.2
examples.

In rich countries, government responses to the need
for quality of life implicitly refer to access to a number
of goods and services and improvements in the domestic
living environment. Many
European cities emphasize
Northern
good transport, green open
European
spaces, culture and sports
cities like Copenhagen,
facilities as major factors
Amsterdam, Groningen,
behind better quality of life.
Berlin and Muenster
Although better paid jobs,
promote cycling and
walking as part of new
good levels of education
urban cultures and in
and health facilities always
the pursuit of better
feature in government
quality of life. Others
responses, quality of life is
like Dresden, Vancouver
increasingly associated to
and Los Angeles have
an inclusive, well-planned,
launched into urban
conversion programmes
healthy and supportive
14
in cultural and historical
environment.
neighbourhoods,
Convergent city
adapting urban
responses: Beyond local
infrastructure and
circumstances, some
reusing open land
aspects of quality of life
areas for better quality
of life.
improvements can be found
in all types of country.

fact

Quality of Life, World-Class Cities and Social Inclusion

policy

Equitable
cities
generalize access
to urban commons
and public goods,
preventing private
appropriation and
expanding the scope for
improved quality of life
for all.

Cities with aspirations to ‘world class’ status will typically equate this notion with competitiveness.
The 2007–2015 Dubai Long-term Strategic Development Plan declares these two notions as twin
objectives that will “establish the city as a preferred home for current and future residents by
improving the well-being of citizens and residents, and helping them live healthier lives enriched
with opportunity and choice.15 In Doha, the capital of Qatar, transformation of the city into a
diversified knowledge-based economy is seen by public authorities as being contingent on the
development and upgrading of the education and skills of the population and improved quality of
life.16 Singapore considers quality of life as a key competitive advantage to attract skilled foreign
labour and investment.17 At a different level, a local expert in Beirut noted that ‘quality of life’ mostly
appeared in the advertising brochures of high-end property developments, in response to which
non-governmental organizations have used the same notion to draw attention to the lack of public
goods in the city, such as public or ‘green’ spaces.18 In Santos, Brazil, quality of life is perceived as
involving social justice and inclusion, not just economic growth, as a precondition for sustainable
development.

63

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

Cultural vitality enhances quality of life: Sinulog Street dancing, an annual event held on the third Sunday in January celebrates Santo Niño,
the patron saint of Cebu, Philippines, as well as Cebuano peoples’ origins.
© 2012 John Lander/fotoLIBRA.com

64

Quality of Life and Urban Prosperity

UN-Habitat has identified various areas of intervention
which governments with different political orientations and
levels of development still consider as priority interventions:
safety and security, efficient public transport, public spaces,
healthcare and adequate housing, appear to be among the
most important.
Public Safety and Quality of Life: A safe and secure life
for all is an integral component of a prosperous city. As an
expert in Nairobi states, “quality of life only makes sense
when there is adequate security”.19 Experts in 52 cities in
the developing world agreed that this is the most important
factor contributing to a sense of empowerment and a feeling
that one is part of a prosperous city. In Lima, for instance, a
survey on quality of life conducted by a citizens’ observatory
found that 73 per cent of the population considers urban
insecurity as the main problem that conspires against quality
of life and prosperity.20
A survey on “urban lifestyles” conducted in 2010 by
Veolia Observatory in seven cities in both developing
and developed nations found that in three of these cities
(Chicago, London and São Paulo) insecurity appears as the
most important problem, and in another (Paris) it features
as the third most important.21
By itself, security may not bring prosperity to any city,
but its absence is fatal. Economic inequity and/or instability
nurtures high perceptions of crime and violence in various
cities around the world, and inadequate urban planning law
enforcement drives many high- and middle-class residents
into gated communities and other guarded urban and
suburban enclaves22, creating pockets of prosperity. This
type of privilege remains unaffordable to those on low
incomes, whose safety is often more at risk. Personal safety
is seriously detrimental to freedom, mobility, productivity
and public interactions, all of which are crucial to ensuring
a high quality of life.
Crime and violence can hinder, and sometimes, paralyze
regional and national economies. High rates of violence
and insecurity in Kingston (Jamaica) and Nairobi (Kenya)
have stultified the otherwise thriving tourist sectors in
these countries.23
Even though urban
Effective
insecurity is to large extent
public
the result of extreme
safety is a fundamental
inequalities, it can also
‘common good’ that
generate further social
enhances quality of life
and spatial disparities
for all, and is a major
that restrain access to
foundation of urban
prosperity.
employment, resources

fact

In 19 cities out of the 52 surveyed by UN-Habitat, an
overwhelming majority of experts (more than 80 per cent)
rated security to work and live freely as a major contributor
to prosperity. In cities like Praia, Cebu, Algiers, Chongqing,
Singapore, La Paz and Amman, nearly all experts rated security as
‘contributing’ or ‘highly contributing’ to prosperity.

and opportunities. Moreover, unsafe cities and perceptions
of insecurity also lead to more fragmented, sprawled and
car-dependent urban environments. The fear of crime and
violence not only increases reliance on private automobiles
through the proliferation of low-density, peri-urban gated
communities, it also deters
the public from using
public transport.
Nearly one-third
of local experts in
Extensive provision
Latin
America,
25 per cent
of public goods such
in
African
cities
and more
as parks, schools, basic
than 10 per cent in Asia and
services, sports facilities
the Arab States said lack
and community centres,
of public security was not
particularly in more violent
properly addressed in their
respective cities.
neighbourhoods, together
with strong participation
from local communities,
has enabled Medellín to
enhance safety through social cohesion.
Reviving the public space: In a large number of cities,
provision, preservation and improvement of public spaces
remains a neglected agenda. According to a local expert
in Panama City, “in practice, the concept of public space
does not exist”.24 In Cebu, an expert mentions that “public
parks, playground areas and recreational facilities are
grossly inadequate”.25 Another in Al-Muharrak (Bahrain)
states that “the city has been losing green areas and today
the proportion of gardens is small”.26 As many other
public goods, ‘green’ and open areas tend to be enclosed,
restricted, or depleted by unsustainable use. In Amman,
city authorities have been converting public areas and
parks into developments.
In India, confessional
Many public spaces
groups erect temples in
are residual urban
public parks; in Bangladesh
areas that are exposed
developers construct
to speculation for private
housing in open public
profit. In other cities, public
areas; in Nairobi, private
spaces remain concentrated
in the affluent areas.
interests occupy riparian
27
lands.

fact

fact

policy

65

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

policy

Cities that
reevaluate
their notion of the public
and thereby provide green
areas, parks, recreation
facilities and public spaces
demonstrate a commitment
to improved quality of life.

policy

Cities that
enhance and
sustain the use of public
space have enhanced
community cohesion, civic
identity and quality of life.

Box 2.3.3
Greenery and Quality of Life in Asian Cities
Many cities across the developing world, especially in Asia and the Arab States, are creating new
parks in an effort to meet international standards for green area per capita (i.e., eight square meters
per head).32 In the past five years, Shenzhen has created 435 new parks as part of the “Eco-city
Programme” and the “Garden City Plan”, achieving a ratio of 16.3 sqm in 2009. As a result, the
urban ecological environment in Shenzhen has gradually improved and with it quality of life.33 Also
in China, Chongqing has increased the combined green belt and public square surface area by a
multiple of 16 in the last 30 years.34 The state-city of Singapore is a leading example in the world,
with greenery over 50 per cent of the surface area and over 450 public parks and gardens. The city
is also preserving its rich biodiversity with four nature reserves which cover more than 3.000 ha, and
are legally protected to safeguard key indigenous ecosystems. These initiatives contribute to a cleaner
environment, shaping the country’s landscape and enhancing quality of life. Recently, greenery has
been given even more emphasis, with a new plan for a “City-In-a-Garden”’.35

In Amman, parks
represent 12 per cent of the total land area; however, in
the eastern part of the city, with the highest population
density, open spaces are very scarce.28 In some other cities,

particularly those aiming at ‘world-class’ status, parks and
‘green’ spaces have a more ornamental or ‘image’ role than
a real ‘public good’ one.
Parks and ‘green’ spaces have always been associated
with better quality of urban life. In Praia, a city where
such spaces are very scarce, a newly opened, small public
square has become a major place for recreation, leisure
and socialization despite its reduced dimensions.29 In
Guadalajara, Mexico, temporary appropriation of streets
and public spaces for pedestrian and cycling purposes has
become extremely popular. As a result, this recreational
project, known as ‘vía recreativa’, has been extended

Box 2.3.4
Internet, Information and Quality of Life
Basic needs are rapidly changing. Access to Internet is
increasingly becoming an essential component of quality
of life. In many cities today, Internet is used not just to
communicate, socialize and learn, but also to promote public
participation and to assess citizens’ perceptions of urban
affairs. Formal recognition of right to information (i.e., India,
2005; the Philippines, 2008; South Africa, 2000) empowers
citizens and encourages participation in governance and
government programmes. The cities of Hyderabad, Cebu,
and Johannesburg, amongst many others, are introducing
e-governance to enable many services on-line − issuance
of documents, payments, ticketing, applications and
complaints − as a major step to enhance quality of life. In
India more than 500 million cell phones are currently in use,
and many with reduced call rates. This is improving the
connectivity of poor and rich alike, and enhancing economic
opportunities for the urban poor. As stated by a local expert in
India, “Internet is an empowerment tool”.

Internet café, Maroc telecom, and teleboutique signs in Morocco.
Access to the Internet is now a vital asset for both poor and rich.
© 2012 Alistair Laming/fotoLIBRA.com

66

Quality of Life and Urban Prosperity

from 3.4 km to over 25 km and across four municipal
jurisdictions. At national level, the Mexican government
has launched an ambitious programme to recover public
spaces in a bid to improve quality of life and enhance public
security, particularly in marginalized neighbourhoods in
various cities.30 In Cuba, as part of a ‘non-discriminatory
enjoyment of public spaces’ policy, several cultural
programmes have been made free or affordable for all, with
plazas, avenues and even vacant lots featuring various events
that enhance quality of life.31
In Europe, public greens which take the form of corner
lots, small community parks, street greens, linear parks,

and river banks as well
as large city parks, are
designed for specific types
of activity. The liveliness
and continuous use of
public space as a public
good leads, in turn, to
urban environments that
are well-maintained and
safe, making the city an
attractive place to live and
work in.36

policy

“Having
access to
public spaces does not
only improve quality
of life, it is a first step
to civic empowerment
on the way to further
institutional and political
spaces”.37

Endnotes
1	

Stiglitz, J.E., A. Sen, and J-P. Fitoussi (2009) Report by the Commission on the
Measurement of Economic Performance and Social Progress, The Commission, Paris,
http://www.stiglitz-sen-fitoussi.fr/en/index.htm

2	

Stiglitz, J.E., A. Sen, and J-P. Fitoussi (2009) op. cit.

21	 Veolia Environment (2010), Villes à Vivre 2010, Observatoire Veolia de Modes de Vie
Urbains, Paris.

3	

Andrulis ,D.P., H.M. Reid, L. M. Duchon (2004), Quality of Life in the Nation’s 100
Largest Cities and Their Suburbs: New and Continuing Challenges for Improving
Health and Well-Being, The Social and Health Landscape of Urban and Suburban
America Report Series, USA.

22	 Davis, D. (2007) “Urban Violence, Quality of Life, and the Future of Latin American
Cities,” in Allison M. Garland,A.M, M. Massoumi and B. A. Ruble (Eds) Global Urban
Poverty: Setting the Agenda. Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars,
Comparative Urban Studies Project, Washington D.C, pp. 57-87.

4	

Stiglitz, J.E., A. Sen, and J-P. Fitoussi (2009) op. cit.

5	

www.worldvaluessurvey.org

23	 UN-Habitat (2007) Enhancing urban safety and security: Global report on human
settlements 2007, Earthscan, London

6	

European Environment Agency (2009), Ensuring quality of life in Europe’s cities and
towns: Tackling the environmental challenges driven by European and global change,
EEA Report 5/2009,Office for Official Publications of the European Communities,
Luxembourg

7	

20	 Lima Como Vamos (2010) Lima Según sus Ciudadanos, Observatorio Ciudadano,
Informe de Percepción sobre la Calidad de Vida, Lima.

24	 Mendoza, I. R. (2011) City Report on Panama City, Unpublished UN-Habitat
background study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”
25	 Fernandez, F.L. (2011) op. cit.
26	 Al- Kubaisy, F. (2011) City Report on Al-Muharrak, Unpublished UN-Habitat
background study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

http://www.mercer.com/articles/quality-of-living-survey-report-2011; Also targeting
business, the Economist Intelligence Unit designed a Quality of Life Index using
nine factors: material well-being, health, political stability and security, family life,
community life, gender equality, political freedom, climate and geography, and job
security, Refer to http://www.economist.com/media/pdf/QUALITY_OF_LIFE.pdf

8	

European Environment Agency (2009) op. cit.

9	

Bodin-Buyle Z., and C. Hermant-De Callataÿ (2011), Urban Prosperity and Quality of
Life in European cities – Beyond GDP, European Union, Brussels, prepared for UNHabitat as part of EU – UN-Habitat collaboration.

27	 UN-Habitat (2010), Bridging the Urban Divide, State of the World’s Cities Report
2010/2011, Earthscan, London
28	 Shabou, A., N. Soboh, K. Jalouka, and D. A. Thaib (2011) City Report on Amman,
Unpublished UN-Habitat background study for “State of the World’s Cities Report
2012/2013”
29	 Fernandez, C. (2011) City Report on Cape Verde, Unpublished UN-Habitat background
study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

10	 European Environment Agency (2009) op. cit.

30	 SEDESOL (2007). Guia de Diseno del Espacio Publico Seguro, Incluente y
Sustentable. Secretaria de Desarrollo Social, México

11	 Dzung, D. D. (2011) City Report on Ho Chi Minh City, Unpublished UN-Habitat
background study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

31	 Coyula, M. (2011) City Report on Havana, Unpublished UN-Habitat background study
for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

12	 Fernandez, F.L. (2011) City Report on Cebu, Unpublished UN-Habitat background
study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

32	 The agreed international ratio is 8 square meters per capita. For instance, Lima, the
capital of Peru, has around 3 square meters, the Mexican border city of Tijuana has
around one or two, and Al-Muharrak in Bahrain has less than 1 square meters.

13	 Lupala, A. (2011) City Report on Dar es Salaam, Unpublished UN-Habitat background
study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”
14	 European Environment Agency (2009) op. cit.

33	 Jin, L. and Y. Liu (2011) City Report on Shenzhen, Unpublished UN-Habitat
background study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

15	 Al-Bassam, D. and J. Mouris (2011) City Report on Dubai, Unpublished UN-Habitat
background study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

34	 Liu, Y. and Y. Wang (2011) City Report on Chongqing, Unpublished UN-Habitat
background study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

16	 Mena, A. (2011) City Report on Doha, Unpublished UN-Habitat background study for
“State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

35	 Centre for Livable Cities (2011) op. cit.

17	 Centre for Livable Cities (2011) City Report on Singapore, Unpublished UN-Habitat
background study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

36	 Shehayeb, D. (2008) ‘Safety and Security in Public Space’ in International Report on
Crime Prevention and Community Safety: Trends and Perspectives, ICPC, Montreal,
pp. 107-112

18	 Fawaz, M. and N. Baghdadi (2011) City Report on Beirut, Unpublished UN-Habitat
background study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

37	 Castellanos, G. (2011) City Report on Santo Domingo, Unpublished UN-Habitat
background study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

19	 Omenya, A. (2011) City Report on Nairobi, Unpublished UN-Habitat background study
for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

67

Chapter 2.4

Equity and the
Prosperity of Cities

The unequal wealth of cities: increased
income disparities
The 2011 OECD report Divided We Stand stresses that
income gaps between rich and poor are expanding in both
developed and developing countries. In OECD countries,
inequalities are as steep as they have been for over 30
years. The Report shows that, in advanced economies, the
average income of the richest 10 per cent of the population
is about nine times higher than that of the poorest
10 per cent. In Europe’s Nordic countries, the average is a
multiple of six but growing,
compared with multiples
of 10 in Italy, Korea and
Cities generate
the United Kingdom, and
wealth, but it
is not shared equitably.
up to 14 in Israel, Turkey
Despite considerable
and the United States.
increases in capital and
These are overshadowed
per capita GDP growth
by countries such as Chile
along with reductions
and Mexico with multiples
in extreme poverty,
of 27, and in Brazil, despite
inequality as a whole is
growing in most parts
recent declines in inequity
of the world – a process
(the exception among
that undermines urban
the BRICs countries), the
prosperity.
ratio of incomes between
In many cities,
richest and poorest reached
the population
4
a staggering 50:1. In
and local experts
the 34 OECD member
concur that inequalities
countries, Gini coefficients
are becoming steeper.
have risen by 10 per cent
A review of inequality
in cities reveals a
on average between the
steady increase over
1980s and the late 2000s
the long term, as well
5
(from 0.29 to 0.316).
as in recent decades.3
In emerging economies
Paradoxically, this has
(such as Argentina, Brazil,
occurred as wealth rose
China, India, Indonesia,
enormously around the
world.
the Russian Federation

The past few decades have witnessed a notable surge in
economic growth, but one which has been accompanied
by an equally daunting degree of inequity under various
forms, with wider income gaps and deepening poverty
in many cities across the world. In the 1970s, widening
income gaps began an unhealthy co-existence with
economic growth, with reduced incomes for households in
the middle and lower classes and steady increases for the
well-off. Economic inequality is seriously detrimental to the
equitable distribution among individuals of opportunities
to pursue a life of their
choosing and be spared
from extreme deprivation
Cities must realize
in outcomes.
that equity has
a significant impact on
Equity involves
economic performance,
systematic (re)distribution
since the greater the degree
of the economic benefits
of equity, the greater the
of growth or development,
chances of a fuller, more
with legal frameworks
efficient use of available
ensuring a ‘level playing
resources, including skills
1
and creative talent.
field’ and institutions
protecting the rights
As understood in
of the poor, minorities
this Report urban
prosperity thrives on equity,
and vulnerable groups.
which involves reduction
Promotion of equity
in barriers on individual/
also involves enhancing
collective potential,
socioeconomic equality
expansion of opportunities,
and providing for civic
and strengthening of
2
participation by all in the
human agency and civic
engagement.
social, political and cultural
spheres.

fact

fact

fact

fact

68

Equity and the Prosperity of Cities

and South Africa)
income inequality is
significantly steeper
than the OECD average.
Inequality has increased
in all these countries over
time, reaching extremes
in Argentina, Brazil and
South Africa.

Box 2.4.1
Income Inequalities in the World’s Cities: An Overview
The UN-Habitat database shows that income inequalities are
widening in urban Asia; this is also the case in half of the
African countries where urban data is available, while the gap
has narrowed slightly in Latin America and the Caribbean.
According to the database, the most unequal cities in the
developing world are Hong Kong, Yichan, Shenzhen, Kuala
Lumpur, Manila, Davao, Colombo, Bangkok, and Ho Chi Minh
City; Bujumbura, Douala, Brazzaville, Addis Ababa, Libreville,
Maputo, Lagos, Kigali and several South African cities (the
most unequal in the world); and cities in Brazil and Colombia,
together with Mexico City, Port-au-Prince, Buenos Aires,
Santiago and Quito.

policy

Promoting
equity must
be a dual endeavour: (i)
providing the conditions that
enable every individual and
social group to realize their
full potential and harness
the collective benefits and
opportunities any city has
to offer; and (ii) removing
any systemic barriers that
discriminate against any
individual or social group.

Equity comes with
multiplier effects

Equity and lack thereof
work in exactly opposite
ways. When actively
pursued, equity can act as a powerful catalyst for prosperity,
exerting multiplier effects on other prosperity factors,
optimizing their respective performances and creating

Rising inequity is not limited to the developing world, as the
recent banking/financial crisis has had serious socioeconomic
effects on the developed countries where it started in the
first place.

Figure 2.4.1
Urban Prosperity, Poverty and Inequity
CPI

Gini

MPI

1.0
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1

*
m

la
*

*

re

sS

al

aa

pa
m

Da

r*

ba

Ka

ba

ka

di
sA

*

a*

Ad

Da

ak
Dh

nh

*

Pe

nj
ab

m

ra

s

Ph

no

Pu

Ac
c

go
La

de
un

y
cit

dj
an

Ya
o

Ab
i

bi

al
a

Gu

ca

iro

at

em

Na

an

ila

bl

an
M

sa
Ca

rta

)
on
gi

ka
Ja

rg

No

i(

Re

d

Jo

De

ha

lta

nn

re

es

To

bu

wn

w
co

pe
Ca

M
os

M
ex

ico

cit
y

0

Ha

* Gini coeffecient based on consumption

This graph shows the difference between poverty and inequity in the context of rising prosperity. In many developing countries, inequity is often concealed in
poverty, thus misdirecting policy and strategic interventions which tend to concentrate only on poverty. The case of Chile (Santiago) is a case in point. Whereas
poverty has been reduced by around 20 per cent, the Gini coefficient increased from 0.542 in 1990 to 0.558 in 2009. A typical example of income polarisation
can be found in Nairobi, which features a Gini coefficient of 0.59, whereby the richest 10 per cent in the city account for 45.2 per cent of income while the
poorest 10 per cent account for just 1.6 per cent.
Source: WHO/UNICEF (2010); International Energy Agency (2010); International Road Federation (2009); ITU World Telecommunication /
ICT Indicators Database (2010)

69

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

linkages among them.
Its absence will will
have the reverse effect,
compounding any existing
biases, or dysfunctions
already hindering
prosperity.
Undoubtedly, some
cities have demonstrated a
capacity to stimulate growth
and prosperity even in the
absence of equity. However,
as has become amply evident in the past three decades,
such prosperity, coupled with uneven distribution, remains
narrowly confined and is unsustainable. Conversely, cities
that have built equity into their local development strategies
are better placed for enhanced prosperity.
Equity reduces alienation and exclusion, paving the
way for empowerment and engagement of all social groups,
and for the realization of the full potential of the entire
population. Indeed, cities that have removed impediments
to the full engagement of women, youths and even the

elderly have invariably enhanced overall prosperity.
Equity is not simply a normative concern, related to
issues of fairness and justice, important as these may be. It is
a material factor which directly impinges on the process of
social and material sustenance. In fact, through removal of
‘unfreedoms’, and with the attendant broadening of choices
and opportunities, equity enhances the city’s transformative
capacity while also promoting identity and agency among
the population.
The social process that comes with the opportunities
made available to all through public goods like quality
education and skills, enables the population to remain
engaged and to stake a claim on the city. In this respect, the
way a city shapes, and is in turn shaped by, its population,
will largely depend on whether urban systems provide all
residents with equal opportunities for development and the
ability to exert agency.
Inequity is inefficient from an economic perspective. As
stressed by Sen, “the primitiveness of social developments
(such as widespread illiteracy, malnutrition, lack of health
facilities and medical networks) is a barrier to the full
realisation of the benefits of participatory growth and

policy

When equity
is embedded
in urban development
strategies, efficiency is
enhanced, asset utilization
becomes optimal,
productivity improves, social
cohesion is strengthened,
and both sustainability and
resilience are enhanced.

Box 2.4.2
Spatial divisions exacerbate inequality
that ”increasing degrees of exclusion are reappearing in the
city, especially with the new infrastructure under development.
Segregation along racial lines is re-emerging.”9 In Dubai, as in
some other Gulf cities, the gap between nationals and nonnationals (access to schooling, public hospitals, health insurance,
adequate and affordable housing, labour grievances and rights) is
unequal in the extreme.

Spatial inequalities are not only a forerunner of social and
economic divisions; these in turn cause further inequalities and
different forms of exclusion and marginalization. In Jordan’s
capital, for instance, 97 per cent of households in Western
Amman have computers while in Eastern Amman the proportion
is no more than eight per cent. Not surprisingly, in Western
Amman more than 50 per cent of males and 20 per cent of
females earn more than USD1,400 monthly, compared with only
two per cent for males and less than one per cent for females in
Eastern Amman.7

Research shows that when combined, the physical and social
divisions between rich and poor neighbourhoods can generate
further exclusion and marginalization, especially when the
poor are confined to farther neighbourhoods with inadequate
accessibility. The underprivileged people living in these ‘lost’
areas suffer from a triple jeopardy: long distances, high transport
costs and excessive commuting times. This turns into a genuine
“spatial poverty trap” that conspires against shared prosperity
through restrictions on jobs, compounding gender differences,
limiting social interactions and reducing social capital, increasing
the likelihood of crime and violence, with worsening living
standards as a result.10 The spatial inequalities so visible in
so many cities are also the outcome of broader and deeply
entrenched processes of unplanned urban development, poor
governance and institutionalized exclusion and marginalisation of
specific groups.

The urban divide appears to widen with higher degrees of
economic prosperity; at least this is the perception of populations
and local experts. In Bangalore, where specialisation in computer
technologies has brought a fair amount of economic prosperity,
a local expert remarked that “while quality of life is comfortable
for ‘elite Bangalore’, it is not so for the ‘other Bangalore’ which
comprises the majority of the population”.8 In São Paulo, even
as municipal authorities strive to integrate favelas, informal
settlements and rehabilitated urban neighbourhoods into a more
inclusive city, wealthy Paulistanos resist the process and gravitate
to more exclusive enclaves. The result is what has been dubbed
a ‘city of walls’ where any visible prosperity appears to be largely
monopolised by the wealthy. In Lusaka, a local expert reports

70

Equity and the Prosperity of Cities

prosperity.”6 Remedies
here include such public
goods as political freedom,
economic facilities, social
opportunities, transparency
and security, with the
safeguards against a variety
of risks that they ensure for
basic capabilities.

The risks of
unchallenged
division
A growing body of
research connects the
competitiveness of cities
with social cohesion.
Analysis increasingly
links the importance of
tackling inequality at earlier
stages of development
to the achievement of
prosperity. Reducing
inequality and poverty has
been highlighted as a key
aspect of urban quality
of life. A UNICEF study
on poverty reduction
mentioned that “evidence from India, China and Brazil
indicates very clearly that efforts to ease inequalities
generate larger dividends for poverty reduction than a
more conventional focus on economic growth”.11 An
OECD study has reached similar conclusions: the notion of
social cohesion includes dimensions of social relationships,
social inclusiveness and social equity, which are major
components of broader-defined prosperity. “The key
idea that has emerged to link these concerns is that social
cohesion improves economic performance. This is a more
positive way of saying that social division and fragmentation
undermine long-term economic success”.12
However, the absence of social cohesion, particularly
in the form of equity, does not just challenge economic
success: it also jeopardises prosperity as a whole through
the multidimensional, and far-reaching consequences
which inequity spreads throughout urban society. UNHabitat analysis (2010) of urban inequality in 47 developing
countries challenged the notion that inequity is an
acceptable, inevitable aspect of economic growth.13

Kibera, Nairobi: Looking out ... access to good education is one
way out the slum.
© Eduardo Lopez Moreno

Recently, OECD experts agreed that economic growth
and equality were by no means contradictory variables but
instead can, and arguably should, act in a complementary
way, stressing that “researchers are increasingly finding that
regions marked by higher levels of inequality, in fact, find
their economic performance damaged.”14
The statement that ‘more equal cities are more
prosperous cities’ is
increasingly supported by
evidence, and has become
More and
more empirical
a development proposition.
data suggests a strong
Without elaborating on
connection between
the moral principle that
equity and economic
inequality is inherently
prosperity, with equity
unacceptable, it would
being a cause not a
appear that when certain
result of economic
prosperity.
groups of people are

fact

71

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

increases in trade based on new, all-weather roads and uptake
of mobile telephone technology. Still, the actual number of
East Africans living below the poverty line has increased from
44 million to 53 million, and income inequality indicators, as
measured by Gini coefficients, have also worsened in most
countries.15 As a regional expert put it, ”The reason for this
is that inequality is both deepening and widening. Fewer
people are enjoying the benefits of economic growth.”16
Inequality and criminality appear to be part and parcel
of the same equation. This is all the more so when lack of
opportunities and rising unemployment are added to the
balance. Perceptions of rising criminality, and the fears
thereof, may be strong in cities characterised by high
inequity, and even stronger than actual numbers actually
state. In one poll, comparing perceptions and expert
opinion in São Paulo and London, criminality emerged
as a major concern in both cities, even though actual
numbers in São Paulo were a multiple of London’s.17 In
the same survey, residents of cities as diverse as Mumbai,
Chicago, Cairo, London, Paris, Beijing and São Paulo
overwhelmingly agreed (89 per cent) that “a non-dangerous
city” was their prime criterion for the ‘good urban life’, a
notion that has much to do with prosperity.

policy

If left unaddressed, socioeconomic fragmentation can
jeopardise urban prosperity and pose major risks to
nationwide political stability.

repeatedly and disproportionately refrained from taking
their fair, full share of the multidimensional benefits of the
‘urban advantage’, the above statement comes with two
interconnected corollaries. First, inequality can be linked
to poor economic productivity, and experience shows that
more sustainable urban economies are frequently associated
with lower inequality. Second, persistent, ever-higher
inequality carries direct risks. Stark disparities within cities
have proven to be social detonators, as recent revolutions
in the Arab world and social unrest in some cities in the
developed world have recently demonstrated.
Take a city anywhere in the world that can boast
sustained economic growth thanks to high productivity,
adequate infrastructure, a high quality of life and
environmental preservation: the more this prosperity is
inequitably distributed, the more precarious it is bound
to be. All five ‘spokes’ in the ‘prosperity wheel’ must be
developed in a well-balanced way for a smoother ride on the
path of sustainable, shared prosperity.
The recent society-wide upheavals in Tunisia, Libya
and Egypt did not occur against a background of extreme
poverty or deprivation. In all three countries, national
poverty reduction programmes had gained considerable
traction. Slum improvement or eradication had been
achieved or was on-going. Large infrastructure projects
with adequate transport networks had been deployed or
were underway and, in terms of education and health,
achievements were approaching or surpassing national
Millennium Development Goals. Still, Egypt, Libya and
Tunisia were shown to have feet of clay. The sobering
message from the Arab
Spring, though still in a
state of flux, is that leaders
When prosperity
and societies ignore
remains an
elusive proposition for a
inequality at their own peril.
majority of the population,
A recent report on the
the prospects of social
East African Community
unrest or full-blown
has highlighted a number of
conflicts increase, since
remarkable achievements in
the majority’s claims are
terms of economic growth
nothing but demands for
effective human dignity.
over the past decade,
propelled by massive

Linking equity to prosperity
“Inequalities are increasing day after day”, according to a
local expert in Hyderabad. This comment echoes findings
from the United Nations General Assembly 2011 Report on
Progress towards Millennium Development Goals (MDGs),
which stressed that “despite advances towards achieving
the MDGs, insufficient emphasis in the MDG agenda had
been given to the issue of inequity which is increasing within
and between countries.”18 Even in those countries that have
made progress towards the MDGs, inequalities have grown.
Therefore, as suggested by the UN General Assembly, equity
must be mainstreamed in the development agenda, based on
more inclusive growth.
Evidence showing that
equity is a critical dimension
of prosperity runs
Cities must
against the conventional
pay more
attention to inequity as
development approaches
a critical factor affecting
that prevailed before the
prosperity. Deliberate
2008–09 global financial
and conscious policies
crisis. A particular case in
now need to emphasise
point is the ‘Washington
the importance of equity
Consensus’, which
in urban decisionmaking.
reinforced the notion that

policy

policy

72

Equity and the Prosperity of Cities

economic growth is to take place first before equity issues can
be addressed. Although the Consensus promoted pro-poor
growth and the provision of primary education along with
primary health and infrastructure development, it was based
on the premise that poorer sections of society benefit from
whatever ‘trickles through’ the economic and social pyramid,
in an environment of free enterprise and deregulation. The
dramatic collapse of the banking system in major Western
countries in 2008 and the subsequent world economic crisis
has seriously discredited the Consensus approach.
Ample evidence suggests that structures and institutions
are skewed in favour of dominant groups in society. These
groups may legally or otherwise maximise their own
benefits, not by chance but by design, and perpetuate and
enhance conditions that further benefit themselves or their
socio-political class. This is particularly true in cities with
poor governance arrangements, weak institutions and nonexisting or ineffective planning structures − in other words,
in cities where the ‘hub’ of the wheel of prosperity is not
properly working and fails to steer growth and development
in a more equitable manner.
The UN-Habitat survey on urban prosperity in
developing regions has highlighted corruption as the
greatest barrier to equity, followed by weak civil society

(with its role in rights advocacy) (Figure 2.4.2). This is
the case in Lahore, Bangalore, Amman and Beirut. In the
survey, local experts also
cited poor governance,
lack of political will
The impact of
and structural barriers
inequity has been
overlooked in conventional
to pro-equity policies
economic and development
as other significant
theory.
hindrances to equity. Far
from being a historic or
inevitable phenomenon,
urban inequality in this
More equitable
perspective is understood
cities have
to be the result of
greater chances to be more
deliberate negligence,
prosperous; but prosperity
does not happen all by itself,
structural obstacles and
or as a logical consequence
weak capacities to counter
of economic growth.
prevailing conditions.

fact

policy

fact

While equity has a direct effect on the emergence of
prosperity, it must be brought about through the other
dimensions of prosperity.

Figure 2.4.2
Factors restricting the scope of greater urban equity

ranking

Historic patterns of inequality

Corruption

Discriminatory practices

Inefficient and ineffective government

Lack of interest from ruling elites

Public institutions controlled by ruling elite

Lack of democracy

Lack of funds

Weak civil society to claim or defend rights

4.5
4.0
3.5
3.0
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0
Africa

Asia

LAC

73

Arab States

All regions

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

Fostering Social Inclusion

‘macro’ and national policies, most interventions in favour
of social inclusion take place at the local level. Therefore,
urban authorities have a major role to play when it comes to
making shared prosperity a reality within their jurisdictions.
In European cities an abundance of initiatives have been
introduced to promote social inclusion, and their benefits
seem to have registered in the UN-Habitat “City Prosperity
Index”. For example, the ‘Cities Against Social Exclusion’
(CASE) programme illustrates the concerted efforts at local
and regional levels to share experiences and improve local
action among a network of European cities.
Typical interventions, such as in Stockholm, include
removal of barriers to full engagement of women, youths,
the homeless, the elderly and the disabled. In Vienna,
an elaborate action plan involves systems for nondiscrimination at all levels, improved political and social
participation of all minority groups including migrants, and
measurable monitoring of social diversity and integration.
As Vienna’s mayor once put it, “Social cohesion and a
climate of respect are particularly important at a time when
we all face new challenges. Good neighbourly relations
cannot be enacted by law. The people who live in Vienna
need to come to an understanding and formulate mutually
acceptable solutions.”19
Similar noteworthy experiences are emerging in
developing countries where Medellín, Dar es Salaam
and Kigali, for instance, have found effective ways of
enhancing prosperity based on relatively lower productivity,
infrastructural development and quality of life. Medellín has
resorted to civic architecture and public spaces to further
inclusiveness and the empowerment of otherwise marginalized
social groups. These groups benefit from expanded public
facilities as infrastructure reaches out to them, improving not
just their sense of wellbeing
but also their capacity
At the city
fully to engage with the
level, social
urban fabric. In Dar es
inclusion
provides
an
Salaam, a conscientious
environment where
plan for socially mixed
individuals feel they
neighbourhoods has
belong to the larger
brought more inclusion
whole, have access
to ‘commons’ and are
both in space and in
free fully to engage in
social relations. In Kigali,
collective affairs. Social
innovative measures aim to
inclusion involves a
consolidate reconciliation
broad set of variables
and integration as part
as it hinges upon
of the post-genocide
the socio-political
relationship.
reconstruction process.

Unequal income and unequal opportunities are the two
main underlying factors of urban inequity. They derive
from biases in distribution at national level as well as
dysfunctions at the local urban level. In this sense, inequity
reveals a differentiation in the manner in which resources
are allocated and facilities and services accessed. The main
driver of inequity often tends to be differential access
to employment as well as to public goods and services.
Inequity in this respect reflects biases in the economic
realm which effectively concentrate a disproportionate
share of resources, services and opportunities in the hands
of certain groups or individuals. A common response is
the consolidation of redistributive programmes, mainly
in the area of social welfare. In developing countries, this
has been complemented with the design of local economic
development initiatives as well as poverty alleviation
measures. However, it has become increasingly evident that
beyond dysfunctions in the distributive systems, in both
developed and developing countries, some systemic barriers
sustain outright discrimination and alienation.
Transcending poverty and deprivation, social inclusion
as both a process and an outcome entails the removal of
barriers to access to goods, services and opportunities
as well as improved wellbeing and self-fulfilment. This
goes to show that social inclusion is not just reactive;
rather, it recognizes the
importance of differences
and diversity, and harnesses
Cities willing to
the commonality of lived
embrace shared
and shared experiences
prosperity must also look
to achieve positive
beyond equity to ensure the
promotion of social inclusion
societal ends.
as a whole.
To a substantial
degree, the urban protest
movements that were
referred to earlier in this
Equity is also
Report have been about
about social and
social inclusion (Chapter
political relations among
1, Part 1). The rallying cry,
urban populations as well
as among government
“We are the 99 per cent”,
institutions and individuals
is more of a reaction to
and social groups. It is the
exclusion and alienation
relational dimension which
than a protest against
underlies the degree to
poverty or deprivation.
which a city operates and
Whereas equity in its
sustains as a collective
entity.
primarily economic
dimension is driven by

policy

policy

fact

74

Equity and the Prosperity of Cities

Placing Equity on the Development Agenda

fact

Institutions are not fully contributing to equity. Rulers lack
interest and ineffective governments are hampering the
potential for more equitable cities.

UN-Habitat policy analysis shows that in most developed
countries, concerns for socio-economic equity are typically
built into concerted actions from local and national
governments. This will usually result in urban policies
promoting inclusion, diversity, multi-ethnicity, affirmative
action, positive discrimination and pro-poor planning. This
in turn can take the form of wide-ranging programmes
and actions, from strategic positioning of educational and
recreational centres to low-cost housing to quota systems
to encourage minority engagement in local politics and
representation, as well as targeted subsidies and financial
support for new businesses. Similar policies and dedicated
institutions are found at the municipal level in most
developed countries and in some emerging economies.
Local experts in the UN-Habitat survey believe that
equity is primarily the responsibility of public authorities;
where a failure of political will, or indifference, are to blame
for deficient, or total lack of, effective policy. Such failure
can be identified at national or local level. In the survey,
local experts in Nairobi, Luanda, Kuwait City, Lahore,

Lima, Fort-de-France, Erbil
Addressing
and Saida felt that national
inequities
governments showed
requires political will, strong
institutions and welllittle concern for inequity
targeted policies.
whereas local experts
in Alexandria, Algiers,
Hyderabad, Guadalajara,
Panama City, Beirut and Doha report that it is local policymakers who show little concern for equity.
Elsewhere, local experts report that some cities
prioritize equity in planning and policy strategies.
Figure 2.4.3 summarises the types of action they use. In
African and Asian cities in the UN-Habitat survey, pro-poor
vocational training and skills programmes are emphasised,
with some projects explicitly targeting the poor and

policy

Figure 2.4.3
Most notable policy or action the city is implementing to be more equitable

per cent

Vocational education and training to
enable skills development

Easier access to employment
and opportunities

New rules and regulations to promote
equitable development

Cash transfers and other forms of financial
support for disadvantaged groups

Financial incentives for the
urban poor

Specific projects targeting the poor
& marginalized

Other

None

40

35

30

25

20

15

10

5

0
Africa

Asia

LAC

75

Arab States

All regions

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

Medellín, Colombia: children enjoy education at a junior school.

marginalised. Singapore offers a clear example of repeated
commitment by the government to education and training
for all in an environment that promotes productivity and
social mobility. In Ho Chi Minh City, government-led
promotion of the high-tech (IT) and service sectors offers
widespread new opportunities for communities to switch
away from conventional manual labour.20 In Africa, Addis
Ababa’s Micro and Small Enterprises Development Strategy
targets the unemployed.21 Johannesburg enhances the skills
of poor communities, expanding access to education and

© Jez Coulson/Panos Pictures

training. In Latin American and Caribbean countries, some
experts cited cash transfers and other financial assistance
in support of marginalised groups, such as Brazil’s “Bolsa
Familia” and Mexico’s “Oportunidades” programme.
In Arab cities, local experts found that new rules and
regulations did promote equitable development.

76

Equity and the Prosperity of Cities

Box 2.4.3
Making Progress on the Equity Agenda
Cities are also allocating funds and introducing local
programmes to promote equity. Some of these interventions are
becoming best practices and good examples that are inspiring
other cities, and sometimes national governments. Authorities
in Chongqing have made social equity a primary goal. Priority
public rental housing programmes have improved conditions
and rural migrant workers’ rights are better protected. In Beirut,
vulnerable groups are targeted for special social support as part
of a scheme that has significantly reduced homelessness and
the number of people (10 per cent in 2009) below the National
Poverty line22). Faced with very steep income inequality (with
Gini coefficients as high as 0.75 in 2005), Johannesburg is
responding with pro-poor policies including ‘Cash Social Grants’.
Singapore integrates equity in national development policies
and urban planning. According to a local expert, ‘There is room
for upward social mobility among the poor and lower-middle
class people through adequate opportunities for all in education
and the job market’.

Today, some cities and
national governments in the
There is no
developing world are
substitute
beginning to prioritize equity
for government
through concerted actions.
leadership to address
They understand that working
issues of equity,
together maximizes their
with civil society in
possibilities to make positive
advocacy, support and
changes in the living
complementary roles.
conditions of the urban poor.
They also understand that
equity is a fundamental aspect
of prosperity. Their interventions are closely linked to propoor programmes such as, in Alexandria, the Social Fund
for Development, which focuses on small- and medium-size
businesses; in Gaziantep, the Social Solidarity Fund whose cash
transfers are conditional on children being sent to school; in
Lahore, the Benazir Income Support Programme; in Shenzhen,
social equity policies have brought large numbers of migrant
workers and vulnerable groups into the city’s social housing and
welfare system; in Ho Chi Minh City, the ‘Doimoi’ reform process
has reduced inequalities in Vietnam’s capital.

policy

Endnotes
1	

World Bank (2006) World Development Report 2006 - Equity and Development,
Oxford University Press ,Oxford

14	 OECD (2006) OECD Territorial Reviews Competitive Cities in the Global Economy,
OECD publishing, Paris.
15	 Society for International Development (SID) ( 2012) The State of East Africa Report
2012: Deepening Integration, Intensifying Challenges, http://www.sidint.net/docs/
SoEAR2012_final.pdf

2	

Gewirth, A. (1996), The Community of Rights, Chicago: University of Chicago Press

3	

UN-Habitat (2010) State of the World’s Cities Report 2010/2011: Bridging the Urban
Divide, Earthscan, London

4	

OECD (2011) Divided We Stand: Why Inequality Keeps Rising, OECD Publishing, Paris,
pp.22

5	

Ibid.

6	

Sen, A. (1999) Development as Freedom, Oxford University Press, Oxford

7	

Shabou, A., N. Soboh, K. Jalouka, and D. A. Thaib (2011) City Report on Amman,
Unpublished UN-Habitat background study for “State of the World’s Cities Report
2012/2013”

8	

Belliapa, S.G. (2011) City Report on Bangalore, Unpublished UN-Habitat background
study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

9	

Hampwaye, G. and W. Nchito (2011) City Report on Lusaka, Unpublished UN-Habitat
background study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

16	 SID Programme director Aidan Eyakuze [Mungai, C. (2012) ‘East Africa region’s
economy expands amid deepening levels of poverty and malnutrition’ in The East
African, April 7, http://www.theeastafrican.co.ke/news/A+richer+East+African+Com
munity+with+more+poor+people/-/2558/1381658/-/v2nkg7/-/index.html]
17	 Urban Age (2009) Cities and Social Equity: Inequality, Territory and Urban Form,
Summary report, http://downloads0.cloud.lsecities.net/downloads/2009/09/
SouthAmericaReport/CSE_Summary_Report.pdf
18	 United Nations General Assembly (2011) Accelerating progress towards the
Millennium Development Goals: options for sustained and inclusive growth and
issues for advancing the United Nations development agenda beyond 2015, Annual
report of the Secretary-General (A/66/126) ,July 2011
19	 Vienna City Administration (n.d) Vienna Charter. Shaping the Future Together, http://
www.wien.gv.at/english/living-working/vienna-charter.html

10	 UN-Habitat (2010) Op. Cit
11	 UNICEF(2010) Understanding Urban Inequalities in Bangladesh: A prerequisite for
achieving Vision 2021, UNICEF Bangladesh, Dhaka

20	 Dzung, D. D. (2011) City Report on Ho Chi Minh City, Unpublished UN-Habitat
background study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

12	 Turok, I (2006) ‘The Connection between Social Cohesion and City Competitiveness’,
in OECD Territorial Reviews Competitive Cities in the Global Economy, OECD
publishing, Paris.

21	 Admassie, Y. (2011) City Report on Addis Ababa, Unpublished UN-Habitat background
study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”
22	 UNDP (2009) Arab Human Development Report: Challenges to Human Security in the
Arab Countries , UNDP , New York,,p. 113-114.

13	 UN-Habitat (2010) Op. Cit; UN-Habitat (2008) State of the World’s Cities Report
2008/2009: Harmonious cities, Earthscan, London

77

Chapter 2.5

Environmental
Sustainability and the
Prosperity of Cities

A key message is that prosperous cities can operate
efficiently and productively without damaging the
environment.5 This is possible only when environmental
and social objectives are fully integrated in a city’s overall
economic goals to help bring about environmental
sustainability.6

Environmental Sustainability in Cities
The prosperity and environmental sustainability of cities are
inextricably linked. Urban areas consume huge amounts of
environmental goods and services like food, water, energy,
forestry, building materials, and ‘green’ or open spaces often
beyond their boundaries. This undermines the assimilative
capacity of the environment around urban areas.1 For
example, the cities of the world generate over 720 billion
tons of wastes every year, but in developing regions, even
in large, presumably more
affluent, cities only 25 to
55 per cent of wastes are
Environmentally
collected.2 Demographic
sustainable cities
are likely to be more
and spatial expansion can
productive, competitive,
be so rapid as to outstrip
innovative, and prosperous
the capacity of cities to
enough to provide better
provide basic amenities −
preservation for the
housing, water and
environment and enhance
sanitation, etc. − resulting
quality of life and well-being
for all the population.
in poor urban conditions.3

It is generally assumed that any country can preserve
the environment while maintaining economic growth.7
However, a degree of commitment is required from all

fact

policy

Inasmuch cities are sources of environmental
problems within and beyond their jurisdictions,
they are also best-placed to provide most of the solutions.
Environmentally sustainable cities are able to draw a healthy
balance between economic growth and the environment, and
facilitate prosperity and resilience in the process.4

Solar panel assembly at a Suntech factory in Wuxi, China. A high
percentage of China's homes use solar-heated water.
© Qilai Shen/Panos Pictures

78

Environmental Sustainability and the Prosperity of Cities

stakeholders, particularly at local level, if sustainable
development is to be achieved.8
Nowhere are the commitments of cities to
environmental sustainability more vital than in developing
countries, where urban demographics are growing rapidly
and current total population accounts for 82 per cent
of the world population. This underscores the need for
growth and prosperity to sustain and fulfil basic needs.
Vitally important as economic growth may be, it must be
sustainable if any city is to achieve prosperity.

fact

In Europe, cities stand at the forefront of initiatives
in favour of environmental sustainability9, as they
keep developing and implementing various policies and
strategies.10

policy

If economic development and related urban activities
are pursued in an environmentally sustainable
manner, they can facilitate urban prosperity.

African Cities
In Nairobi, for example, local experts point to extensive
pollution of the Nairobi River not just by industrial effluents
but also solid waste.12 Traffic congestion is also mentioned
as a major environmental problem, and apart from the
attendant air pollution, the cost to the local economy
is enormous.13 Similar opinions are held by experts in
Lusaka, Accra, Algiers, Lagos, Ibadan and Luanda, where
rapid urban sprawl and uncontrolled spatial development
combine with poor infrastructures and weak regulatory

frameworks to undermine quality of life and, more
generally, prosperity in their respective cities.
Of the fourteen African cities covered in this Report,
no more than four – Johannesburg, Beira, Alexandria, and
Gaborone – can be found where only a few local experts
perceive that economic development and related activities
have negative effects on
the environment. This
Africa’s rate
comes as no surprise

fact

of economic
growth has outpaced
the global economic
growth over the last
decade. Real growth
GDP has been steady
particularly in the
Sub-Saharan region,
a sub-region expected
to continue growing by
more than 5 per cent.11

Figure 2.5.1
Environmental Impact of Growth* – African Cities
per cent
100
90
80
70

policy

60
50
40
30
20
10

* As perceived by local experts surveyed by UN-Habitat
Source: UN-Habitat, City Monitoring Branch, Policy Survey, 2011

79

Be
ira
Al
l
Af Sa
ric m
a ple
Ci d
tie
s

Da

La
go
Ad
s
di
sA
ba
ba
Ga
bo
ro
ne
Al
ex
an
dr
Jo
ia
ha
nn
es
bu
rg

nd
a

a

Lu
a

Ac
cr

m

ad
an
Ib

aa

s
ier

sS
al

a
ai

rE

Al
g

Pr

a
ak
Lu
s

Na

iro

bi

0

However, an
overwhelming
majority of local experts
believe that urban
economic development has
unintended effects on the
environment in cities such
as Nairobi, Lusaka, Praia,
Algiers, Dar es Salaam,
Ibadan, Accra, Luanda and
Lagos. These cities are
seen to be unable to match
sustained economic and
demographic growth with
corresponding expansion in
infrastructures and services.

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

Asian Cities

fact

In some African cities, a large majority of local
experts report that although economic developed and
related urban activities have detrimental effects on the natural
environment, sustainability is largely overlooked by policy-makers.

However, the expert opinion survey reveals differences
across cities. For instance, economic growth is not
perceived to have been matched by adequate infrastructure
and services in Ho Chi Minh City, Bangalore, Lahore, and
Hyderabad. In Lahore, experts point to ground water
pollution, extensive air pollution, traffic congestion and
urban sprawl as major effects of economic development and
urban activities on the environment, these are compounded
by inadequate capacity and weak institutions.15 Similarly
in Bangalore, experts point to poor air quality, depletion
of ground water tables and fast receding lakes.16 These
perceptions contrast with those of local experts in
Singapore, Turkey’s Gaziantep, and Shenzhen, where very
few local experts view economic growth and urban activities
as detrimental to the environment (Figure 2.5.2).
In Asia, close to two-thirds of local experts report
that this type of policy is at work in their respective cities,
especially in Singapore and Ho Chi Minh City. Singapore
is fully committed to environmental sustainability. This
includes environmental awareness campaigns, with

policy

given that these cities are
among those pursuing
environmental sustainability
as a matter of policy.
South Africa’s
economic capital has been
systematically promoting
creation and preservation
of open spaces, pursuing energy efficiency and the reduction
of greenhouse gases, and promoting solar energy, energysaving bulbs and insulation as part of a retrofitting scheme.
Above all, the city promotes sustainable building design
and construction through a comprehensive set of planning
regulations, whereby a sustainable approach must pervade all
planning stages.14
Johannesburg’s
approach to
environmental sustainability
appears to be the most
comprehensive of all African
cities.

Figure 2.5.2

fact

Apart from cities
in the Arab States,
economic development and
urban activities in Asian
cities are perceived to have
the least detrimental effects
on the natural environment.

Environmental Impact of Growth* – Asian Cities
per cent
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10

* As perceived by local experts surveyed by UN-Habitat
Source: UN-Habitat, City Monitoring Branch, Policy Survey, 2011

80

Al
As l Sa
ia mp
n
Ci led
tie
s

e
or
ap
ng
Si

ze
n
en
Sh

ep
nt
zia
Ga

bu
Ce

ao
Da
v

d
ba
ra
de
Hy

ho

re

0

La

When cities
promote
environmental sustainability
as a matter of policy,
they are able to cushion
the unintended effects of
economic development
and urban activities.
Environmentally sustainable
cities are, almost by
definition, more compact,
energy-efficient, clean
and less polluted, more
accessible, and offer better
transport choices

M Ho
in C
h hi
Ci
ty
Ba
ng
al
or
e

policy

Environmental Sustainability and the Prosperity of Cities

institutions and grassroots leaders collaborating on
community outreach schemes, and various programmes
involving the citizenry in the ‘sustainable’ agenda. The cityState’s ‘compact city initiative’ promotes density, facilitates
mass transit and includes a ‘walkable’ campaign. Under
Singapore’s waste management scheme, 58 per cent of solid
wastes are recycled, another 40 per cent incinerated to
produce energy, and the remaining two per cent goes to a
purpose built off-shore sanitary landfill.

policy

The main message from Arab States is that
urbanisation and economic growth are inevitable;
and if matched with appropriate and effective policies and
governance, the environmental consequences are manageable.

are rarely considered”, with an absence of effective policies
for urban planning, although they are needed in areas
like traffic and waste management.19 However, in Doha,
Aqaba and Dubai, most local experts report that their
respective cities have proper policies in place. In Dubai,
environmental sustainability policies include the Emirates’
Energy and Environment Rating System and the Air
Quality Management System, among other robust policies
and governance mechanisms promoting environmental
sustainability in Qatar’s capital city.20

Cities in Arab States

81

id
a
Al
lS
Ar am
ab p
Ci led
tie
s

Sa

a

ab

Aq

ha

Do

ai

Du
b

l

bi

Er

a

sr

Ba

an

m

Am

z

Sh
ira

k

ty

ra

ar

M
uh

Ci

it

Ku
wa

Be
iru

t

Across Arab States, only one-third of local experts consider
that economic development has unintended detrimental
effects on the environment (Figure 2.5.3). However, this
favourable average conceals sharp differences across
cities. Experts that view that economic development has
negative effects on the environment are an overwhelming
majority in Beirut, and 50 per cent in Kuwait City, Shiraz
Latin America and the Caribbean
and Muharrak in Bahrain. These cities have relatively
Two distinct phenomena may be at play here: the region’s
large populations (Beirut, Kuwait City and Shiraz) and
high rates of urban spatial expansion and relatively high
intense economic activity. In Beirut, local experts see a
direct link between rapid
urban expansion and
environmental problems,
Figure 2.5.3
with one describing the city
Environmental Impact of Growth* – Arab Cities
as “a metaphor for brutal
real estate speculation”,
per cent
with attendant noise
90
pollution and traffic
80
congestion.17
Similarly in Kuwait
70
City, local experts point
to the construction boom
60
associated with economic
50
growth and urban
expansion. As noted by
40
one, this double boom has
placed “acute pressures on
30
road networks, with traffic
20
becoming a nightmare”.18
Only very few local
10
experts in Saida (Lebanon),
Basra and Beirut believe
0
their respective cities
promote environmental
sustainability as a matter
* As perceived by local experts surveyed by UN-Habitat
of policy. In Beirut,
Source: UN-Habitat, City Monitoring Branch, Policy Survey, 2011
“environmental concerns

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

fact

The overall
picture in Latin
American cities is one of
inadequate commitment to
environmental sustainability,
with the concomitant
absence of policies or
strategies. This leaves
relatively few opportunities
for wider participation in
environmental policies,
which can only further
exacerbate the negative
effects of economic
development and urban
activities on the natural
environment.

Figure 2.5.4
Environmental Impact of Growth* – Latin America and Caribbean Cities
per cent
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10

nc
Al
e
lS
Ar am
ab p
Ci led
tie
s

rio
Fo

rt-

De

-F

ra

sa

na
ba
Ha

La

Ro

eo

a

vid

an

te
on

M

as
en

ju
Ti

os

ar

a
m

nt

Gu

Sa

so

na

ai
ar
lp

Va

o
Sa

nt

Pa

z
Pa

in

La

ell
ed

Do

M

m

in

go

te
Es

a
Lim

al

aj

ar

a

0

ad

Latin America
and the
Caribbean is the region
where a greater proportion
of local experts believe that
economic development
and urban activities have
(unintended) detrimental
effects on the environment.

Gu

policy

* As perceived by local experts surveyed by UN-Habitat
Source: UN-Habitat, City Monitoring Branch, Policy Survey, 2011

degrees of economic
development. The
consequences of economic
development on the environment are considered as
‘serious’ or ‘very serious’ by majorities of local experts in
Guadalajara, Lima, Ciudad de Este, Medellín, La Paz and
Valparaíso (Figure 2.5.4). In Medellín, experts point to the
224,000 tons of pollutants discharged annually into the
atmosphere, of which 66 per cent are traceable to traffic
in a city that keeps expanding rapidly in both surface
area and population.21 In Santo Domingo, rapid urban
sprawl and population expansion are fuelled by natural
resource exploitation, and the two combine with weak
institutions to compound environmental problems.22 In
Lima, an overwhelming number of local experts concur
that environmental sustainability has not been a priority in
the management of the city. The few existing initiatives are
largely uncoordinated, though all under the responsibility of
the central rather than local government.23
On the other hand, environmental sustainability
policies have worked relatively well in Fort-de-France,
Havana and Venezuela’s Guarenas. In the case of Fort-

de-France, from 2008 onwards, a determined mayor has
taken action, challenging environmental misbehaviour –
particularly with regard to solid waste – and vigorously
enforcing rules and regulations across all sectors through
a so-called ‘green brigade’.24 Similarly in Medellín, the
municipality’s environmental department implements
a variety of ‘sustainable’ policies with regard to noise
pollution, global warming, water conservation and
reforestation. A range of targets have been set involving
various greenhouse gas emission controls and air
quality. As one local expert put it, “the municipality is
awakening and educating people towards a more responsible
environmental behaviour.”25

Environmental Sustainability: A Catalyst
for City Prosperity
Environmental sustainability offers cities huge scope for
the balanced economic growth that can pave the way
to prosperity. This includes opportunities for new types
of employment and investment, poverty alleviation and
reduced inequity together with new types of infrastructures
and services.
82

Environmental Sustainability and the Prosperity of Cities

Renewable Energies

policy

Environmental sustainability offers huge
employment potential in terms of: substitution
of renewable alternatives for non-renewable resources,
recycling and reusing materials26, production and installation
of renewable energy systems, sustainable urban transport,
waste recycling, retrofitting old buildings, new sustainable
buildings and infrastructures, and environmental services.27

The renewable energy sector – solar, wind, hydroelectric,
geothermal and bio-fuel – continues to attract huge
investments. In 2010, a total of USD 243 billion had been
committed to this sector worldwide28; this is projected to
rise to USD 630 billion by 2030, in the process creating
as many as 20 million jobs.29 Although much of this has
concentrated on developed countries, investments in
renewable energies are beginning to materialise in the
developing world.30
Around the world, about 300,000 workers are employed
in the wind power sector alone, and another 100,000
in solar photovoltaic, while some 1.2 million jobs have
already been created in the biomass sector in Brazil, China,
Germany and the USA.31 In the UK for example, 250,000
people are already employed in the various renewable
energy sectors estimated to
be worth USD 53 billion
annually.32
While developed countries
have the lion’s share of
jobs in the sustainable
sector around the world,
huge opportunities exist
for developing countries.
India is looking to create
no fewer than 100 million
jobs in this sector within
10 years, most of which
are expected to be in the
solar energy sector.33 South
Africa reckons that 98,000
new ‘low carbon’ jobs are
possible in the short term,
and close to 717,000 in the
medium to long-term34, to
be split into recycling, solar
energy and retrofitting of
old buildings for energy
efficiency.

policy

Investment
in renewable
energies could generate
more employment
and income for urban
households.

Waste and Recycling
In Bangladesh, 800,000 of the 3.5 million potential
jobs associated with environmental sustainability are in
recycling.36 Besides new jobs, waste management and
recycling have also spawned technical innovations, leading
to the creation of many specialised small- and medium-sized
businesses in cities of developing countries.37

India: the wind turbine area of southern Tamil Nadu runs for mile after mile across the plains south
of the Southern Ghats mountains, producing electricity for part of the massive demand for power
throughout India.
© 2012 Peter Herbert/fotoLIBRA.com

83

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

policy

policy

Waste
management
and recycling can be a
huge source of employment
in developing countries
where 15 million people are
estimated to work in waste
collecting and processing.35

Buildings

In Ouagadougou,
Burkina Faso,
a project for collecting
and recycling plastic
waste has helped improve
environmental conditions
and has created jobs and
incomes for local people,
who either collect the
plastic waste or work in
the recycling centre. The
project has also resulted in
a cleaner environment in the
suburbs and has generated
USD 35,000 in revenues.38

Dhaka, Bangladesh: in a factory producing Polyethylene Terephthalate (PET) flakes, women sort plastic
bottles collected from the streets. Bangladesh exports over 20,000 tons of PET flakes made in 3,000
factories across the country. The industry is worth GBP 7 million, and growing by 20% per annum.

Buildings have a major role
© G.M.B. Akash/Panos Pictures
to play in climate change
mitigation because of the
disproportionate amounts
of natural resources, waste and pollution they involve. For
instance, 60 per cent of the operational energy of a typical
building goes to cooling and heating, 18 per cent to water
heating, six per cent to refrigeration and three per cent to

lighting. This is why buildings have been identified as having
the greatest potential for reduced greenhouse emissions.40
In addition to this, environmental jobs associated with
buildings will largely occur in retrofitting in accordance with
new sustainable standards, designs and codes.41

Urban transport

policy

The construction industry has the largest potential
to create ‘green’ jobs in urban areas. The building
and construction sector employs more than 111 million people
worldwide, or approximately 5–10 per cent of total employment
at the country level with 75 per cent in developing countries and
90 per cent in micro-firms (those with fewer than 10 employees).39

New jobs can be created not only by replacing or
retrofitting old, polluting buses, but also in retrofitting
other vehicles used in urban transport, in a double effort
to reduce air pollution.
The bicycle industry also offers opportunities
for employment, though only in a few countries.
84

Environmental Sustainability and the Prosperity of Cities

The manufacture of bicycles is dominated by China,
India and the European Union, all of which account for
87 per cent of global production. However, China alone
produces more than half the world’s bicycles.

policy

Public transport jobs account for 1–2 per cent of
total employment in many countries. In Europe
and the USA, some 30 jobs are created for every USD 1.4
million invested in public transport infrastructure, and another
57 in transport operations proper.42

Drivers and Capacity-Building for
Environmental Sustainability
Sustainable urban policies are driven by seven main
factors: availability of financial resources, human resources,
appropriate technology, specialised institutions, access to
information, adequate organisational arrangements, and
supportive legal frameworks.
Approximately one-third of local experts across all
regions are of the view that mechanisms for coordination
between city and national authorities regarding
environmental sustainability are already in place
(Table 2.5.1). Less than one-third report that cities are
mobilising investment to support sustainable resource use,
or pulling their resources together in order to enhance
environmental sustainability.
These efforts can only go so far, it would seem, as
experts simultaneously highlight the widespread problem of
inadequate capacity. This refers to lack of not just finance,
but also effective arrangements to facilitate partnerships
with stakeholders, together with weak institutional
frameworks and poor urban governance structures.44 These
conditions have drastically restraining effects on cities’
ability for effective mitigation and adaptation.
Similarly, cities and local authorities in developing
countries may find it difficult to prioritize environmental

policy

Pilot projects in the Philippines suggest that
retrofits of two-stroke engines on two- and
three-wheeled vehicles − the most popular public transport
in many developing countries − has cut fuel consumption
by 35–50 per cent and emissions of air pollutants by as
much as 90 per cent. Installing and servicing the kits creates
employment.43

sustainability issues and challenges over and above
unemployment, poverty, housing shortages, infrastructures
and services, especially where local political expediency
demands this type of action.
This underscores the importance of growth and
prosperity to the capacity of cities to address urban
environmental sustainability issues, and this is also why
they must be innovative and inventive when dealing with
historic urban environmental problems while shaping an
environmentally sustainable future. This situation highlights
the fact that the twin dynamics of sustainability and economic
prosperity are inevitably subject to a number of structural
constraints that are specific to each and every urban area
regardless of size.

Table 2.5.1
Drivers of Environmental Sustainability in Cities*

Regions

Available mechanism(s) for
coordination between local and
national authorities concerning
sustainability (%)

Leveraging of investments to
support sustainable resource
use and lower greenhouse
gas emissions (%)

Municipalities in same city/
region combining resources
& partnering together for
enhanced environmental
sustainability (%)

Africa

31

20

20

Arab States

37

35

35

Asia

48

49

48

Latin America & Caribbean

26

18

20

All Regions

34

29

29

* As perceived by local experts surveyed by UN-Habitat
Source: UN-Habitat, City Monitoring Branch, Policy Survey, 2011

85

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

fact

position to tackle the effects of climate change on top of
poverty and inequity.
The need for adequate capacity is further underscored by
the fact that whereas environmental sustainability is widely
recognised as essential, local authorities when faced with
competing demands and budget constraints, consider it to
be the least of priorities.45 This has implications for cities,
especially given the role they must play in local environmental
issues, including when it comes to responding to the needs
of the population at a time when the need for environmental
preservation is gaining more recognition in public opinion.46

Environmental sustainability requires capacity-building
and resource availability at the local level.

Cities are best able to
combine sustainability and
shared prosperity through
effective urban governance
and transformational
leadership. This type of
leadership recognises
the complex interactions
between urbanisation and
the environment at the local, regional, and global levels.
The next step is to put in place appropriate institutions
and build the institutional building capacities required
for environmentally sustainable urban systems including
transport, energy, waste management, rehabilitation of
the built and natural environments, and management of
ecosystem services.
For the time being, local experts across all developing
regions clearly highlight financial and institutional
capacities as a major problem (Table 2.5.2). More
specifically, only a few believe that efficient systems
are in place in their respective regions to monitor
environmental sustainability or the transport sector. Local
experts also identify further challenges, suggesting that
growth has a critical role to play if cities are to be in a

fact

Asia and the Arab
States appear to
best placed, in terms of
capacities, to deal with
environmental concerns
and bring about more
sustainable cities.

Kuwait City: skyscraper under construction.
© 2012 Wael Hamdan/fotoLIBRA.com

Table 2.5.2
Cities with the capacity for environmental sustainability*
Cities making
progress
toward more
Cities with
sustainable urban
environmental
environment
transport policies
(%)
(%)

Local authorities
with financial
& institutional
capacity (%)

Integration of
environmental
protection plans
in to policies and
strategies (%)

Efficient
monitoring
systems for
environmental
sustainability (%)

Africa

22

48

17

9

36

Arab States

60

46

37

8

46

Asian

64

65

45

31

70

Latin America & the Caribbean

24

47

21

8

46

All Regions

39

51

28

36

43

Region

* As perceived by local experts surveyed by UN-Habitat
Source: UN-Habitat, City Monitoring Branch, Policy Survey, 2011

86

Environmental Sustainability and the Prosperity of Cities

Nevertheless, cities need not wait until full capacity
is built before adopting and implementing adequate
environmental policies and strategies: indeed, in many cases
cities have managed to enhance overall quality of life despite
modest financial and institutional capacities.

policy

Cities must build those financial and other institutions
required to achieve environmental sustainability without
which economic growth will fall short of ensuring shared prosperity.

Endnotes
1	

Mitlin, D., and S. Satterthwaite (1996) Sustainable Development and Cities. In Pugh,
C. (ed.) Sustainability, the Environment and Urbanisation, Earthscan, London

2	

UNEP (1996) Taking Action: Environmental Guide for You and Your Community, UNEP,
Nairobi, http://www.nyo.unep.org/action/08f.htm

3	

UN-Habitat (2003) The Challenge of Slums: Global Report on Human Settlements
2003, Earthscan, London

4	

UN-Habitat (2011a). Cities and Climate Change: Policy Directions, Abridged edition,
Earthscan, London.

5	

Cities Alliance, ICLEI and UNEP (2007) Liveable Cities: The Benefits of Urban
Environmental Planning. A Cities Alliance Study on Good Practices and Useful Tools,
Cities Alliance, Washington DC.

6	

Pacione, M. (2003) ‘Urban Environmental Quality and Human Wellbeing; A Social
Geographical Perspective’, Landscape and Urban Planning, vol.65, pp.19-30

7	

WCED (World Commission on Environment and Development) (1987) Our Common
Future, Oxford University Press, Oxford

8	

United Nations (1992) Agenda 21: Programme of Action for Sustainable Development,
United Nations, New York

9	

Portney, K. E. and J.M. Berry (2011) Civil Society and Sustainable Cities. Paper
prepared for the Princeton Conference on Environmental Politics: Research Frontiers
in Comparative and International Environmental Politics, Niehaus Center for
Globalization and Governance, Princeton University, December 2-3, 2011

27	 Simon, D., M. Fragkias, R.Leichenko , R. Sánchez-Rodríguez, K. Seto and B.Solecki
(2011) The Green Economy and the Prosperity of Cities, background paper for ‘State
of the World Cities Report 2012/13’
28	 UNEP (2011) Renewable energy: Investing in energy and resource efficiency http://
www.unep.org/greeneconomy/Portals/88/documents/ger/GER_6_RenewableEnergy.pdf
29	 UNEP (2009) Global Green New Deal, UNEP Policy Brief, http://www.unep.org/
pdf/A_Global_Green_New_Deal_Policy_Brief.pdf
30	 Martinot, E. , A. Chaurey , D. Lew, J. R. Moreira, and N. Wamukonya (2002)
‘Renewable Energy Markets in Developing Countries’, Annual Review of Energy and
Environment, vol. 27, pp. 309-348.
31	 UNEP, ILO ,IOE and ITUC (2008) Green Jobs: Towards Decent Work in a Sustainable,
Low-Carbon World, UNEP, Nairobi
32	 Peacock, L (2011) ‘Future of jobs: Green industry to create thousands of roles’, The
Telegraph, September 15, http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/jobs/8765695/Futureof-jobs-Green-industry-to-create-thousands-of-roles.html
33	 Shukla, A. (2012) ‘India to create 100 million green jobs’, One World South Asia,
February 13, http://southasia.oneworld.net/todaysheadlines/india-to-create-100million-green-jobs/?searchterm=100%20million%20green%20jobs
34	 Maia, J., T. Giordano,N. Kelder, G. Bardien, M. Bodibe, P. Du Plooy, X. Jafta, D.
Jarvis, E. Kruger-Cloete, G. Kuhn, R. Lepelle, L. Makaulule. K. Mosoma, S. Neoh, N.
Netshitomboni, T. Ngozo, and J. Swanepoel, (2011) Green Jobs: An Estimate Of The
Direct Employment Potential Of A Greening South African Economy. IDC/DBSA, Trade
and Industrial Policy strategies

10	 Lafferty, W.M and Eckerberg, K. (1998) From the Earth Summit to Local Agenda 21:
Working Towards Sustainable Development, Earthscan, London.

35	 UNEP, ILO, IOE and ITUC (2008) op. cit.

11	 Africa Economic Outlook (2012) Macroeconomic Prospects, http://www.
africaneconomicoutlook.org/en/outlook/forecast/

36	 HK (2010) Estimating green jobs in Bangladesh: A GHK report for the ILO, http://
www.ilo.org/wcmsp5/groups/public/---ed_emp/---emp_ent/documents/publication/
wcms_159433.pdf

12	 Omenya, A. (2011) City Report on Nairobi, Unpublished UN-Habitat background study
for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

37	 Simon, D., M. Fragkias, R.Leichenko, R. Sánchez-Rodríguez, K. Seto and B.Solecki
(2011) op.cit.

13	 Ibid.
14	 Awuor-Hayanga, R. (2011) City Report on Johannesburg, Unpublished UN-Habitat
background study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

38	 ILO (2007) Green jobs initiative in Burkina Faso: From waste to wages, http://www.
ilo.org/global/about-the-ilo/press-and-media-centre/insight/WCMS_084547/lang-en/index.htm

15	 Zaidi, S.S.H. (2011) City Report on Lahore, Unpublished UN-Habitat background study
for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

39	 Simon, D., M. Fragkias, R.Leichenko, R. Sánchez-Rodríguez, K. Seto and B.Solecki
(2011) op.cit.

16	 Belliapa, S.G. (2011) City Report on Bangalore, Unpublished UN-Habitat background
study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

40	 Ibid.

17	 Fawaz, M. and N. Baghdadi (2011) City Report on Beirut. Unpublished UN-Habitat
background study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

41	 Renner, M., S. Sweeney and J. Kubit (2008) ‘Green Jobs: Working for People and the
Environment’, WorldWatch Report 177, Worldwatch Institute , Washington, DC

18	 Khattab, O. (2011) City Report on Kuwait City, Unpublished UN-Habitat background
study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

42	 UNEP, ILO, IOE and ITUC (2008) op. cit.

19	 Ibid.

43	 UNEP, ILO, IOE and ITUC (2008) op. cit.

20	 Al-Bassam, D. and J. Mouris (2011) City Report on Dubai, Unpublished UN-Habitat
background study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

44	 UN-Habitat (2011b) Cities and Climate Change: Global Report on Human Settlements
2011, Earthscan, London

21	 Urán, H. B. (2011) City Report on Medellín, Unpublished UN-Habitat background study
for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

45	 Hess, D. and L. Winner (2006) Enhancing Justice and Sustainability at Local Level:
Affordable Policies for Urban Governments, http://www.davidjhess.org/PolicyPaper.pdf

22	 Castellanos, G. (2011) City Report on Santo Domingo, Unpublished UN-Habitat
background study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

46	 UNCED (1992) Capacity Building: Agenda 21’s definition (Chapter 37), United Nations,
New York.

23	 Galimberti, L. D. (2011) City Report on Lima, Unpublished UN-Habitat background
study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”
24	 Yerro, A. P. (2011) City Report on Fort-De-France, Unpublished UN-Habitat
background study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”
25	 Urán, H. B. (2011) op. cit.
26	 UNEP (2008) UNEP Background Paper on Green Jobs, UNEP, Nairobi

87

Part Three

Policies for
Prosperous Cities

Chapter 3.1

From Comparative
Advantage to Urban
Prosperity

Many cities derive their prosperity from their capacity to
harness other advantages, particularly through repositioning
themselves in the national, regional or global context.
Common among all of them has been their capacity to
change and adjust to new circumstances and to build upon
their own history and identity. Such cities have been able
to envision a new future and to use their different forms of
capital and assets. Critical also has been the ability of these
cities to build social and political consensus. In essence,
many cities today are able to deploy the capacity of human
agency and to steer growth in the new direction of choice.
Indeed, the prosperity of any city is no accident. It is the
result of innovation, sustained vision and good governance.
It is also a result of proper laws, regulations and institutions,
as well as reinvigorated planning and adequate policies.
Effective use of these instruments and processes has
enabled many cities around the world to optimize their
comparative advantages and to set themselves along the
path of prosperity. They have used a range of avenues and
capitalized on different sets of ‘spokes’ in their drive to
shared and sustainable growth and wellbeing.
Some cities are enhancing prosperity though strategic
thinking and conscious
planning policies. This
Geography
is the case with Dubai in
alone cannot
the Persian Gulf, which
determine which city
took advantage of its
will grow and which will
privileged geographic
decline. Other factors
location to become the
such as government
policies, corporate
largest re-exporting
strategies, human
centre in the Middle East,
capital, major political
and today is emerging
forces and decisions,
as a cosmopolitan
investments in strategic
centre. Other cities
sectors, all have an
are devising long-term
influence on the fate of
cities.
visions with well-defined

Geography has always played an important role in the
evolution of cities. Historically, coastal cities and cities in
river deltas have been preferred locations – at present, 14 of
the world’s 19 largest cities are port cities. However, with
advances in transport and communication technologies and
also with increasing specialization, other locational factors,
beyond positions along waterways, have accelerated the
growth and development of cities. Even when located in the
hinterland, cities located close to other major urban centres
or to important urban agglomerations have significantly
gained from their position and demonstrated relatively
higher levels of development. Indeed, new configurations
such as mega-regions and urban corridors generate regional
economies and trigger the evolution of new patterns of
economic activity which contribute to prosperity. Similarly,
cities which lie in the vicinity of markets and infrastructure,
or close to transnational
borders, have also exhibited
a tendency to grow and
It is time for
prosper much faster.1
governments
to recognize the existence
The increasing number
of a wide scope for human
of large and dynamic cities
intervention that can
which are not sea or river
enable cities to enhance
ports confirms that much
their potential as engines
as geographic location is
of today’s and tomorrow’s
an important correlate of
prosperity, both locally and
nationally.
a city’s prosperity, it does
not explain everything.

fact

policy

90

From Comparative Advantage to Urban Prosperity

implementation plans, like Melbourne’s or Rio de Janeiro’s
Gaziantep in Eastern
Beyond
strategies for improved quality of life.
Turkey is a case in
geography,
Some other cities are enhancing prosperity based on
point, with its efforts to
well-managed urbanization
national economic policies and investments with financial
develop cultural heritage
stands out as the new
support from central government. The Jordanian city of
tourism. Restoration
comparative advantage in
Aqaba on the coastline of the Red Sea was designated as
and rehabilitation works
this early 21st century.
Special Economic Zone (ASEZ) in 2001 and benefited
enhance quality of life and
from a public-private venture that created a duty-free and
at the same time creating
multi-sectoral development. The Zone contributed to
alternative means of
enhanced infrastructure development, restoration of the
economic development. Valparaíso, Chile’s most important
city’s historic core and enhanced prosperity through the
seaport and a well-known tourist resort, is repositioning its
2
development of the tourism industry. Shenzhen, too, has
image as a cultural centre with facilities for entertainment,
benefited from national economic and industrial policies
leisure and tourism.
and related strategic investments. These examples show that
Many other cities are developing innovative ideas and
success depends on careful design of regional and economic
strategies to shape new urban identity in the pursuit of
strategies, effective coordination across government tiers,
prosperity. This typically includes revamped public spaces,
massive infrastructure building, outstanding industrial and
rehabilitation of architecture and historic landmarks, reentrepreneurial strategies, and pro-equity policies.
creation of the street as part of the soul of the city, shaping a
Other cities still pursue prosperity through improved
‘sense of place’ with monuments, piazzas, marketplaces and
provision of goods and services at regional level. Nairobi,
streetscapes as open venues for arts and cultural expression.
the capital of Kenya, is capitalizing on the newly-created
All of these achievements testify not just to the creative
East African Common Market and Customs Union to
and innovative powers of municipal and other public
enhance its communications and information technology
authorities; they are also the outcomes of the interplay
sector, while at the same time developing its transport
between the various power functions at work in any city.
infrastructure to improve
efficiency and productivity.
Prosperity can also be
pursued through other
important dimensions
such as knowledge
development. Doha is
developing education
and arts as part of the
city’s new cultural vision.
Concepción in Chile,
like the Algerian cities of
Blida, Tlemcen, Sidibel-Abbès and Setif, are
growing and becoming
more prosperous through
education institutions and
higher learning.3
Some cities showcase
their tangible and
intangible cultural heritage
and identity, in a bid to
La Paz, Bolivia: providing public goods for all, irrespective of neighbourhood or income bracket.
bring about social and
© Eduardo Lopez Moreno
economic transformations.4

policy

91

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

This driving power behind urban change and transformation
acts as the ‘hub’ at the centre of the ‘wheel of prosperity’.
Urban power functions are where the public, collective
interest is determined, together with the practical rules,
plans and actions that are to embed it in a specific area. The
hub is where decisions are made to activate any of the five
dimensions of prosperity, keeping them well-balanced and
maintaining the momentum in the wheel.
Part 2 of this Report detailed the respective roles of
the five dimensions of urban prosperity, with the various
interlinkages and multipliers involved. Part 3 presents the
policy related factors underlying the prosperity of cities,
including drivers and constraints. It also focuses on urban
power functions – the ‘hub’ holding together, activating
and controlling the five ‘spokes’ of the ‘wheel of prosperity’
across the length and breadth of any urban jurisdiction,
regardless of geographic location, size or resources. Just
like productivity, infrastructure or a well-preserved natural
environment, these urban power functions are human
constructs; it is for governments, local and municipal
authorities, and society at large to make sure that these
power functions work for the benefit of the majority of the
population and keep enhancing shared urban prosperity.

Actualizing dreams of prosperity: penthouse in El Alto, Bolivia.
© Eduardo Lopez Moreno

Factors Creating an Environment
Conducive for the Prosperity of Cities

Policy-Related Factors
Underlying the Prosperity
of Cities

According to the local experts surveyed by UN-Habitat,
the factors that create a favourable environment for cities
to prosper are effective urban planning and management;
decentralization polices and appropriate institutions; a
system that creates equal opportunities for all; participation
of civil society; elected local officials; a favourable business
environment; access to basic amenities; and public transport
and mobility. Most of these factors are interrelated or
complementary and jointly affect the prosperity of cities.
The importance of these factors with respect to the various
regions is presented in Figure 3.1.1.

The policy-related factors underlying the prosperity of
cities are multifaceted. They can be described in terms
of drivers and constraints. The drivers could be the
traditional and non-conventional factors that create an
environment conducive to prosperity; they often affect the
prosperity of cities in a positive manner. The constraints
act as impediments that prevent a city from becoming
more prosperous. These
factors are further
Effective urban
mediated by the local
planning and
context, and as such, their
management is perceived
effects may vary across
to be the most important
cities and regions – a
driver creating a favourable
particular factor might be
environment for the
prosperity of cities.
important in one city or
region, but not in another.

Effective urban planning and management
The perceived importance of urban planning is most
pronounced in the Arab States followed by Africa and Asia.
However, in Latin America
and the Caribbean, urban
planning emerges as the
As a starting
third most important factor
point,
that creates an environment
urban planners must
conducive for cities to
view urbanization as a
positive phenomenon.
prosper.s

fact

policy

92

From Comparative Advantage to Urban Prosperity

Urban planning can contribute to the prosperity of cities
in various ways.
While there is growing recognition of the benefits,
positive contribution and potential opportunities associated
with cities, urban planners and policymakers in some
developing countries are still ambivalent about the
importance of urbanization and some cases, show aversion
to the urbanization process. This should not be the case,
because cities generate the bulk of GDP; they are the
engines of growth and centres of innovation.
There at least two ways to achieve this. The first is
to nurture the growth of high-productivity activities –
particularly manufacturing and services, which benefit from
agglomeration economies. The second entails managing
the negative externalities associated with the economic
growth and success of cities – congestion, inequality, crime
and violence, and soaring cost of land and housing, among
others.5 Neglecting cities even in countries with low levels
of urbanization can impose significant costs.6
The positive nature of urbanization can be beneficial
to the poor if the common deprivations that affect
their daily existence are adequately addressed. Such
deprivations include limited access to income and

policy

Managing urbanization is essential to nurturing the
prosperity of cities. Cities that want to grow and
be prosperous in all five dimensions must make urbanization
work well.

policy

When urbanization is planned and well-managed, and
distributive mechanisms of prosperity are put in place,
it can contribute to poverty reduction.

employment; inadequate
living conditions; poor
infrastructure and
services; risks associated
with living in slums;
spatial issues which inhibit
mobility and transport;
and inequality associated
with exclusion.
Effective urban
planning, together with

policy

Another way
urban planning
can bring about more
liveable cities consists in
tackling slums and informal
settlements, as no city can
claim to be prosperous
when large segments of
the population live in slum
conditions.

Figure 3.1.1
Factors underlying urban prosperity
Efficient urban planning &
management

Decentralization policies &
appropriate institutions

System that creates equal
opportunities for all

Policies that promote participation
of civil society

Elected local officials

Sound business environment &
entrepreneurial culture

Access to basic amenities including public transport

per cent of respondents
35

30

25

20

15

10

5

0
Africa

Asia

LAC

Source: UN-Habitat City Monitoring Policy Survey, 2011

93

Arab States

All regions

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

unsustainable. Compact urban development has several
advantages. It is more efficient, inclusive and sustainable. The
cost of providing infrastructure is lower, access to services
and facilities is improved since thresholds are higher, the
urban poor find that livelihoods are less of a challenge, and
social segregation is reduced. Urban planning has played a
significant role in Singapore’s compact pattern and modern,
convenient public transportation. Singapore is transitoriented, with high-density residential and commercial
developments integrated into transport nodes. This improves
accessibility to public transport.

policy

Urban planning and appropriately developed
institutions and regulations can play major roles,
improving urban equity through the capture and redistribution of
rising land values.

political commitment, has contributed to a reduction
of slums in a number of countries including Argentina,
China, Colombia, Egypt, India, Indonesia, Morocco,
South Africa and Tunisia.
One positive outcome of urban growth is that it
increases urban land values. Components of urban
planning systems – such as re-zoning, granting of planning
permission, and the provision of infrastructure and
services – also contribute to higher urban land values.
Experience in North and Latin America shows that value
capture can be an effective way to link urban planning and
land use regulations, as well as to control land use, finance
urban infrastructure, and generate local revenue to fund
urban management.
Uncontrolled sprawl presents a major challenge for
urban planning and
has implications for
the prosperity of cities.
Urban sprawl contributes
to the high numbers of
cars, distances travelled,
length of paved roads, fuel
consumption, alteration of
ecological structures and
the conversion of rural land
into urban uses – all of
which are environmentally

Decentralization and appropriate institutions
In Latin America and the Caribbean, decentralization
is perceived to be the most important factor enhancing
urban prosperity. This is an indication of the effectiveness,
or more developed nature, of decentralization policies in
Latin America and the Caribbean compared with other
regions. The perceived effect of decentralization in Arab
States appears to lag behind other regions. The highly
centralized governance structure in the region undermines
the efficiency of municipal authorities, obstructs political

policy

Urban planning
can encourage
more compact, efficient
and sustainable urban
development.

fact

Decentralization
policies emerge
as the second important
factor enhancing urban
prosperity.

Kathmandu, Nepal: the relentless urban sprawl of the Kathmandu Valley. The Vishnumati River is
surrounded by suburbs which have sprung up in recent years. With few building regulations, the
city keeps on growing, as many look for a better life in the city than in the countryside. The result is
environmental chaos with severe noise, air and water pollution problems.
© 2012 Jonathan Mitchell/fotoLIBRA.com

94

From Comparative Advantage to Urban Prosperity

participation and erodes the relationships between the
citizenry and the level of government closest to them.7
Box 3.1 highlights how decentralization can play a key
role in the prosperity of cities.
While the responsibilities of municipal governments
have increased following reforms in recent years, many have
no access to the financial resources needed to undertake
these functions. This naturally creates a mismatch between
responsibilities and financial resources, and is a major
reason why decentralization has been less than successful in
certain countries.
National reforms relating to various aspects of
decentralization – revenue allocation, community
participation, local elections, local planning, pro-urban
development strategies – all provide the enabling
environment for cities to prosper.

policy

For decentralization to strengthen urban authorities’
commitment to urban prosperity, it must be backed by
fiscal devolution.

System that creates
equal opportunities

policy

Decentralization
works well
when backed by strong
commitment and support
from central government.8

The importance of this
factor is most pronounced
in Arabs States compared
with other regions. This
is because Arab States
are one of the most
A system that
egalitarian in terms of
guarantees equal
income distribution in the
opportunities for all is
developing world. This is
the third important factor
underlying the prosperity of
reflected in an overall (low)
cities. The more egalitarian
Gini coefficient of 0.36,
a city, the more prosperous
which has been declining
it becomes.
over time.9 The low degree
of inequality in the region
has been attributed to a
strong, cohesive social system, and the fact that redistribution
constitutes a policy priority in Islamic economies.10
A system that creates equal opportunities for all can
use redistributive policies that give priority to low-income
groups and areas. In Venezuela, the government has used
redistributive policies to bring significant improvements
to the living standards of the urban poor through
massive investment in health and education.11 With the
provision of over 8,000 clinics in the barrios, people are
able to access health services 24 hours a day at no cost.
Similarly, illiteracy has been eliminated, pupils are no
longer restricted to elementary school, and those with the
required academic qualifications can attend university.
Another form of redistribution policy involves
conditional cash transfers. These enhance the human
capital of beneficiaries through transfers which are made

fact

Box 3.1.1
Decentralization and the prosperity of cities
A major benefit of decentralization as it relates to the prosperity
of cities is that delivery of essential services such as water,
sanitation and waste management, health and education can
be carried out more effectively. Decentralization can make
for better service delivery by providing greater opportunities
for community-based groups to lobby for improved services.
Proximity to physical demand for a service encourages
effectiveness and promotes a more rational use of resources,
while also allowing for closer monitoring by the beneficiary
population of projects intended to serve them.
The devolution of authority can foster community
participation, too. Decentralization can lead to an institutional
framework through which various political, religious, social,
ethnic groups and multi-levels including towns and cities, can
participate in making decisions that will affect them.
Decentralized decision-making can provide a better
framework for poverty reduction, so long as it is accompanied
by fiscal devolution of powers to municipal authorities.
Decentralization can accelerate economic development through
active engagement of regional and municipal government
units and local enterprises in economic activities. The transfer
of authority and resources to local units of government and
administration to design and implement programmes provides
more opportunities for local citizens to play a more direct role
in the development process. As catalysts for development and
local change agents, they can make decisions about location of
services and determine priorities.

policy

For a city to be truly prosperous, it must deploy
systems that will ensure equal opportunities for all,
especially the more vulnerable – the poor, women, children, the
elderly, youth and the disabled. A prosperous city is one where the
aspirations of all segments of the population are realized. Highly
unequal cities are a ticking time bomb waiting to explode.

Source: UN-Habitat (2012) Decentralization in Iraq: Challenges and
Solutions for Federal and Local Governments, Nairobi: UN-Habitat

95

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

conditional on certain requirements such as school
attendance, visits to clinics and periodic immunization.12
Brazil’s Bolsa Família scheme, which benefits 11.1 million
families, is the largest of its kind in the world, and has
contributed to reducing poverty and inequality.13 Indeed,
80 per cent of Bolsa Família benefits go to families living
below the poverty line; the programme also accounted for
21 per cent of the decline in
inequality in Brazil between
1995 and 200414 – all of
Policies that
which contribute to making
promote the
participation of civil society
cities more prosperous.

States, it is the fifth important factor. This is not surprising,
given that participation of civil society has very strong roots
in Latin American cities, with the best-known participatory
approaches being participatory budgeting and participatory
planning. A classic example of participatory planning
process in Asia is the People’s Campaign for Decentralized
Planning in Kerala (India), which strengthens democratic
decentralization by identifying local needs and establishing
local development options and priorities through local
consultation and participation.15

fact

are perceived as the fourth
most important factor
behind enhanced urban
prosperity.

policy

Participation of
civil society has
the potential to empower
communities, build social
capital, lead to better design
of urban projects, and
allow for citizens’ concerns
to be incorporated into
development strategies.

Elected local officials
Research shows that durable democracy is correlated with
economic development.17 Across the world, the more
prosperous cities (at least economically) tend to be located
in countries that are stable democracies. Democratically
elected local officials owe their mandate to the people, and
as such, are best placed to respond to the people’s needs,
which include providing good conditions for employment,

Civil society participation
The perceived importance
of participation of civil
society varies across
regions. It is seen by local
experts as the second
most important factor in
Latin America and the
Caribbean, while in Arab

Kerala, India: food security is critical for productivity. Ready
access to a variety of wholesome food enhances quality of life.
© 2012 Peter Herbert/fotoLIBRA.com

policy

Lessons from
experience
suggest that successful
civil society participation
is dependent upon
certain preconditions
such as: (i) a political
system that encourages
active citizenship and is
committed to equity and
remedial action; (ii) the
legal basis for participation;
(iii) available resources
in terms of skilled and
committed professionals,
as well as well-resourced
and empowered local
governments; and (iv)
informed and organized
communities and
stakeholders.16

96

From Comparative Advantage to Urban Prosperity

providing adequate infrastructure and urban services,
improving the quality of life, making society more equitable,
and ensuring environment sustainability.
Of course, there are instances where non-democratic
leadership is associated with a degree of economic
prosperity, but this is the exception rather than the rule.
Indeed, non-democratic regimes are coterminous with
pathologies such as predation and expropriation, and in
the long-run undermine the institutions underlying that
prosperity.18 It has been noted that autocratic governments
often distribute benefits to an elite group, while democratic
governments distribute benefits more widely to gain the
support of the general public.19

fact

A system that ensures that local officials are elected
is ranked by local experts as the fifth most important
policy-related factor that enhances urban prosperity. The election
of local or city officials presupposes the existence of stable
democracy through which citizens are empowered to elect and
remove their leaders through an open, free and fair ballot.

policy

Political institutions like democracy are essential
if the conditions for prosperity are to be laid out
and nurtured.

Favourable business environment

fact

Across the four developing regions surveyed by UNHabitat, a favourable business environment is perceived
to be most important in Asia – possibly pinpointing the role played
by cities in the region, creating an enabling environment for
businesses and attracting foreign direct investment.

A business-conducive environment is needed for a vibrant
private sector, attracting and retaining investment (including
foreign direct), creating jobs and improving productivity –
all of which are important for the promotion of growth and
for expanded opportunities for the poor.20
Cities such as Singapore, Hong Kong, Seoul, Busan,
Kuala Lumpur, Tokyo, Yokohama and Osaka all feature
favourable business environments, with beneficial effects on
prosperity. In Africa, it is easier to do business in St Louis
(Mauritius), Johannesburg, Kigali, Tunis and Gaborone
than in Kinshasa, Conakry, Asmara, N’Djamena or Bangui,
which are located in countries that rank low in business
environment. Generally, cities in the former group of
countries tend to be more prosperous than those in the latter.
Rwanda has consciously deployed a business-friendly
environment, in the process bringing a higher degree of
prosperity to its capital, Kigali. In recent years, Rwanda
has undertaken reforms to streamline business procedures,
create a favourable legal framework, reduce bureaucracy,
and improve service delivery in order to promote both
domestic and foreign investment. For instance, in Kigali,
registering a business takes only three days and costs less
than five per cent of the average income in an environment
devoid of corruption, making the city “a very easy place for
a global firm to operate”.21

In South Africa, the
Access to basic
Gautrain is expected
amenities and
to reduce road traffic
infrastructure, including
between Johannesburg
improved public transport
and ICT, is a factor that
and Pretoria by 25,000will enhance the prosperity
30,000 cars per day; this is
of any city. This factor
one of the busiest roads in
is considered as most
South Africa where traffic
important in African and
increases an average seven
Asian cities.
per cent every year.23 In
Bogotá, the BRT provides
fast and reliable transport
Cities with a
for over 1.4 million
favourable
passengers per day, in the
business environment and
process reducing traffic
entrepreneurial culture
congestion and enhancing
are more likely to be
environmental quality.24
prosperous.
In addition to the
foregoing, access to basic
amenities can deliver major
prosperity-enhancing benefits such as: supporting economic
growth; contributing to achievement of Millennium
Development Goals through improved health and education;
improving quality of life especially for youth and women;
enhancing environmental quality through improved access
to water and sanitation, which in turn reduces morbidity and
mortality, and fosters greater productivity.

fact

policy

Access to basic amenities
An efficient mass transit system is essential for the seamless
movement of people and goods within and between cities,
which in turn is vital for the prosperity of cities. In Lagos,
the bus rapid transport (BRT) system has attracted new
patronage, lowered average fares, creating 1,000 jobs as
well as indirect employment for over 500,000 people.22
97

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

Some Impediments to the urban Prosperity

bureaucracy, and proliferation of corrupt practices among
others. All these are incompatible with urban prosperity.

Based on the UN-Habitat local expert survey, there are
seven main impediments to urban prosperity, as follows:
poor governance and weak institutions; corruption; lack
of appropriate infrastructure; high incidence of slums and
poverty; high costs of doing business; low levels of human
capital; and high crime rates (Figure 3.1.2). The hard-won
prosperity gains made by cities in terms of productivity,
infrastructures, quality of life, equity, social inclusion and
environmental sustainability can be jeopardized or eroded,
either individually or collectively, by these impediments.

Corruption
Local experts surveyed by UN-Habitat unanimously concur
that corruption is a major threat to the prosperity of cities.
This is in line with the view that corruption is the single
largest obstacle to development.27 Corruption can be found
operating on a grand scale, often penetrating the highest
policy-making organs of government, including urban
authorities, or take a petty sort of nature, involving everyday
public and social interactions.
Corruption acts a deterrent to direct (and even
indirect) foreign investment, as it will influence foreign
firms’ decisions to locate in a particular country or city.
Corruption acts like a tax, only imposed for private instead
of public benefit.28 One of the reasons that foreign firms are
attracted to cities such as Bridgetown (Barbados), Santiago
(Chile), Gaborone (Botswana), Doha (Qatar), San Juan
(Puerto Rico), St Louis (Mauritius), Kigali (Rwanda) or
Victoria (Seychelles) is because they all located in countries
with low levels of corruption.
Corruption undermines the ability of city authorities to
provide fair municipal services, as it distorts planning and
allocation processes.
Corruption is particularly evident in large-scale
urban infrastructure projects, and distorts infrastructure
spending in various ways.29 It can increase public
expenditure on new infrastructure, since such capital
projects can be easily manipulated by politicians and highlevel officials to obtain bribes.
Corruption can reduce the resources normally available
to urban authorities for improved provision of basic services
such as water, sanitation, education, health and recreation,
which are all essential for urban prosperity and the
achievement of the Millennium Development Goals, many
of which are urban-related.
Corruption can also result in shoddy delivery of urban
services. When contractors offer bribes to secure contracts,
they are likely to cut back and compromise on quality in
order to recoup part or whole of the bribe offered.

Poor governance and weak institutions
What this implies is that countries in Africa and Arab
States must do more to improve urban governance and
institutions. Indeed, in many developing countries, the
institutions required for urban prosperity, if they exist, are
weakly developed. Proper
institutions are crucial
formal (Constitution,
Poor governance
and weak
laws and regulations) and
institutions act as major
informal (social norms,
impediments to higher
customs and traditions)
urban prosperity.
rules that determine how
people, organizations
and firms make decisions
of an economic, social
The impact of
political nature, maximize
poor governance
and weak institutions on
potentials and optimize
urban prosperity appears
resources.25
to be more pronounced in
Sound institutions
cities in Africa and Arabs
matter for the prosperity
States, where over 40 per
of cities, as they provide
cent of experts cite this
the superstructure that
factor as the single most
important impediment.
enables, or otherwise,
underlying factors to
operate and deliver a
maximum of benefits
Corruption is
to the largest possible
considered by local
experts as the second most
majority of the population.
important hindrance to
Institutional inadequacies
enhanced urban prosperity.
take the form of weak (if
not altogether lacking)
legal and institutional
frameworks26, disregard
Corruption can
for the rule of law,
be detrimental
poor enforcement of
to urban prosperity in a
variety of ways.
property rights, excessive

fact

policy

fact

Inadequate infrastructure
Cities with deficient infrastructure will be adversely affected
on many fronts; they are less likely to be prosperous,
sustainable or productive. For instance, inadequate water
and sanitation facilities will lead to deterioration of the
urban environment, increasing the disease burden of the

fact

98

From Comparative Advantage to Urban Prosperity

urban poor, particularly in slums and squatter settlements.
Deficient infrastructure can drive up the costs of doing
business in urban areas and reduce firm productivity by
as much as 40 per cent30, and its impact can be as large
as those of crime, bureaucracy, corruption or financial
market constraints.31 Deficient infrastructure is also a
major impediment to trade and competitiveness in many
developing countries, particularly landlocked and small
island states. In the case of Africa, the proportion of paved
roads in is about five times less than in high income OECD
countries; the end-result of this infrastructure bottleneck
is that transport costs are 63% higher in African countries
compared with developed countries.32 This has major
implications for competitiveness of African cities on local
and international markets.

fact

Inadequate infrastructure is a major impediment to the
prosperity of cities. The impacts of deficient infrastructure
appear to be more pronounced in Asian and African cities and less
so in Arab States.

fact

stigmatized on account of
Cities with large
proportions of their
their location and are often
populations
living in slum
discriminated against in
conditions are less likely to
terms of access to public
be prosperous.
and social services, as well
as employment.
Slum prevalence
is highest in Sub-Saharan Africa (62 per cent), where
basic services are lacking not only in informal, but
formal settlements, too. North Africa features the lowest
prevalence (13 per cent). In Asia, the average proportion
of urban populations living in slums ranges from 25 per
cent in Western Asia to 35 per cent in South Asia. In Latin
America and the Caribbean, average slum prevalence is
24 per cent. To a large extent, regional patterns of slum
prevalence reflect degrees of access to basic services such
as water and sanitation, as well as the nature of urban
development policies.

High incidence of slums and poverty
Slums feature the most deplorable living and environmental
conditions and are characterized by inadequate water
supply, poor sanitation, overcrowded and dilapidated
housing, hazardous locations, insecurity of tenure and
vulnerability to serious health risks – all of which have
major implications for quality of life. Slums are also known
for their atmosphere of fear and the social and economic
exclusion of their residents.33 Slum dwellers are often

Figure 3.1.2
Perceived impediments to the prosperity of cities

per cent of respondents

Poor governance & weak institutions

Corruption

Inadequate infrastructure

High incidence of slums and poverty

High cost of doing business

Low levels of human capital

High levels of crime

45
40
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0

Africa

Asia

LAC

Source: UN-Habitat City Monitoring Policy Survey, 2011

99

Arab States

All regions

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

fact

Large concentrations of slums impose enormous burdens
on urban authorities that often lack the resources to
provide even the most basic services, with obvious consequences
on prosperity. Rather than opting for proactive perspective on
urban development, cities with large concentrations of slums are
likely to adopt antagonistic or fragmentary approaches, which
among other shortcomings tends to be expensive in the long term.

Mumbai, India: where there is inadequate access to, or provision of, resources, people will improvise dwellings using whatever comes to hand.
© 2012 Nicola Barranger/fotoLIBRA.com

High cost of doing business

of doing business and thus, likely to be less prosperous
compared to other African cities located in countries where
the cost of doing business in low.
In Latin America and the Caribbean, Brazil,
Honduras, Bolivia, Haiti and Suriname are ranked
relatively low on the ease of doing business. In Brazilian

In Africa, countries like Mauritania, Cameroon, Burundi,
Benin, Eritrea, and Guinea Bissau are ranked low in terms
of the ease of doing business.34 This means that their capital
cities – Nouakchott, Yaoundé, Bujumbura, Porto Novo,
Asmara and Bissau, will be characterized by a high cost
100

From Comparative Advantage to Urban Prosperity

cities, the business environment is bogged down by the
labyrinth of bureaucracy. For instance, it takes an average
of 119 days and 13 procedures to register a business.35
Anyone wishing to start a business will require approval
from no less than 12 different government agencies.36
As one store owner lamented: “You need a document.
But to have that document, you need to hand in seven
documents. And to get each of these seven, there’s a
different demand.”37

fact

Just as a favourable business environment enhances the
prosperity of urban areas, the high cost of doing business
can serve as an impediment to cities becoming more prosperous.
A high cost of doing business has obvious implications for
investment, productivity, employment, income, taxation and
poverty reduction – all of which impact on the prosperity of cities.

8th for technological
Low levels of
innovation (as measured
human capital
by international patent
or labour can hinder urban
applications), among
prosperity. When it fails to
the 500 sample cities in
develop and nurture human
the 2010 Global Urban
resources, a city will be less
likely to be prosperous than
Competitiveness Ranking;
those with highly educated
its GDP per capita was
labour forces.
USD 58,197 in 2007 with
three per cent economic
growth on an annual
average basis in 2001-2007.42 Munich’s manufactured
products enjoy a good international reputation and export
competitiveness. The city’s large proportion of high-skilled
workers, nurtured through its vocational education system,
has been crucial to the city’s prosperity.

policy

Poorly developed human capital
Education is essential not just for nurturing, but also
for attracting talents, and bolstering innovation. The
development of Boston, Silicon Valley, Oxford and
Cambridge (UK) clearly benefited from the presence of
reputed universities.39 Availability of highly-skilled human
capital in turn attracts and generates innovative and
knowledge-based industries.
Within the OECD, the productivity of some
metropolitan areas has been attributed to human resource
endowments. For instance in Montreal, the relatively low
productivity of high value-added sectors has been linked to
lower educational attainment and inadequate investment,
particularly in small and medium-sized enterprises.40
Similarly, in Istanbul and Mexico City, productivity and
hence, prosperity, is hampered by low skills, as well as the
extent of the informal sector, where adult education and
skill upgrading are difficult to provide.41
Attracting and
cultivating talents has
become common practice
The myriad
for cities in the pursuit
of laws, taxes
of prosperity. From New
and regulations and
York, to Boston, London
bureaucracy involved in
to Vienna, Dubai to
registering or running
a business has been
Singapore, or Bangalore to
cited as one of the
Shenzhen, many cities can
main reasons why
illustrate this phenomenon.
40 per cent of Brazilian
Munich’s experience with
startup businesses
vocational education can
hardly survive for more
be particularly inspiring.
than two years. The
cost of bureaucracy
The capital of Bavaria
is staggering; in 2010
as well as the economic,
bureaucracy cost the
cultural, technological and
Brazilian economy
transportation centre of
46.3 billion reals.38 This
South Germany, Munich
has implications for the
is one of Europe’s most
prosperity of cities in
Brazil.
prosperous cities. It ranked

High crime rates
Crime is a major deterrent to domestic and foreign
investment and can cause capital flight. In Africa, more
than 29 per cent of business people report that crime was
a significant investment constraint.43 Investors generally
worry about violent crime for fear of direct losses to
business and lack of security for staff.
High crime rates can have a crippling effect on the
prosperity of cities. In Lusaka, for instance, fear of crime in
the poverty-stricken community of Chawama can prevent
teachers from showing up
at work.45 In South Africa,
a survey of major cities
According to the
showed that over a quarter
local experts
of respondents would not
surveyed by UN-Habitat,
crime emerges as another
consider opening a business
major impediment to the
due to fear of crime, with
prosperity of cities. No
more than 25 per cent
city can claim to be truly
saying they were reluctant
prosperous if it is crimeto allow their children to
ridden and the population
walk to school, while 30 per
lives in a perpetual state of
insecurity.
cent stopped using public
46
transportation. In large

fact

fact

101

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

Latin America cities, high numbers of murders deter people
from working evenings and at night.47
All these factors have implications for local economies,
quality of life and the attractiveness of public spaces, on top
of lost opportunities for socioeconomic advancement that
are so crucial for the prosperity of cities.

fact

In Latin America, the financial burden of violent crime
is equivalent to 25 per cent of GDP in Colombia and
El Salvador; 12 per cent in Mexico and Venezuela; 11 per cent
in Brazil; and five per cent in Peru.44 In Jamaica, crime has a
pernicious effect on national tourism and is often cited as a major
reason for the country’s weak economy.

Endnotes
1	

UN-Habitat (2008) State of the World’s Cities Report 2008/09: Harmonious Cities,
Earthscan, London.

24	 Hidalgo, D.(2008) ‘Why is TransMilenio still so special?’, The City Fix, August 5, http://
thecityfix.com/blog/why-is-transmilenio-still-so-special/

2	

Shabou, A., N. Soboh, K. Jalouka, and D. A. Thaib (2011) City Report on Aqaba,
Unpublished UN-Habitat background study for “State of the World’s Cities Report
2012/2013”

25	 Sharma, S. (2005) op. cit.

3	

UN-Habitat (2008) op.cit.

26	 Oyeyinka, B. O. (2012) ‘Institutional capacity and policy for latecomer technology
development’, International Journal of Technological Learning, Innovation and
Development, Vol. 5, (1/2), pp. 85-110.

4	

Costas, S. (2011) Urban Tourism and Urban Change: Cities in a Global Economy, New
York, Routledge

27	 UN-Habitat (2007) Enhancing Urban Safety and Security: Global Report on Human
Settlements 2007,Earthscan, London

5	

Spence, M (2008) “Preface”, in Urbanization and Growth, Spence M. , P.C. Annez.,
and R. Buckley (eds.), Commission on Growth and Development, World Bank,
Washington DC.

28	 Dong, B and Torgler, (2010) The Consequences of Corruption: Evidence from China,
Center for in Economics, Management and the Arts Working Paper No. 2010-06,
http://www.crema-research.ch/papers/2010-06.pdf

6	

Annez, P.C. and R. Buckley (2008) “Urbanization and growth: Setting the context”, in
Urbanization and Growth, Spence M. , P.C. Annez., and R. Buckley (eds.), Commission
on Growth and Development, World Bank, Washington DC.

29	 Arimah, B. C. (2005) ‘What drives infrastructure spending in cities of developing
countries?’, Urban Studies, Vol 42 (8), pp. 1345-1368

7	

UN-Habitat (2012) The State of Arab Cities 2012: Challenges of Urban Transition,
UN-Habitat, Nairobi.

8	

UN-Habitat (2006) State of the World’s Cities 2006/07, Earthscan, London.

9	

UN-Habitat (2004) State of the World’s Cities 2004/05, Earthscan, London.

30	

Escribano, A. ,J.L. Guasch, and J. Pena (2008) ‘Impact of Infrastructure Constraints
on Firm Productivity in Africa, Africa Infrastructure Diagnostic Study Working Paper 9,
World Bank, Washington, DC.

31	 Foster, V., and C. Briceno-Garmendia (2010) Africa’s Infrastructure: A Time for
Transformation, World Bank, Washington, DC.
32	 African Economic Outlook (2012) Progress in Infrastructure Developments,
http://www.africaneconomicoutlook.org/en/outlook/trade_policies/progress-ininfrastructure-developments/

10	 Ibid.
11	 Scipes, K. (2006) ‘Venezuela and South Africa: Redistributive policies vs. neo-liberal
economic policies’, Third World Traveler, http://www.thirdworldtraveler.com/
Venezuela_page/Venez_SAfrica_EconPolicies.html

33	 Bloom, D. E., D. Canning, and G. Fink (2008) ‘Urbanization and the wealth of nations’,
Science, Vol. 319, pp. 772 - 775.

12	 Hailu, D. and F. V. Soares(2008) ‘Cash transfers in Africa and Latin America: An
overview”, Poverty in Focus, Number 15, International Policy Centre for Inclusive
Growth, Brasilia, pp: 3-5.

34	 World Bank and International Finance Corporation (2011) op. cit.
35	 Ibid.

13	 Britto, T (2008) ‘Brazil’s Bolsa Família: Understanding its origins and challenges’,
Poverty in Focus, Number 15, International Policy Centre for Inclusive Growth,
Brasilia, pp: 6-7.

36	 Gomes, L . (2012) ‘Brazil’s labyrinth of bureaucracy’, BBC News, May 16, http://www.
bbc.co.uk/news/business-18020623

14	 Soares, F. V., S. Soares, M .Medeiros, , and R. G. Osório, (2006) ‘Cash transfer
programmes in Brazil: Impacts on inequality and poverty‘ , International Policy Centre
for Inclusive Growth working Paper, Number 21, International Poverty Centre Brasilia

38	 Gomes (2012) op.cit.

15	 UN-Habitat (2009) Planning Sustainable Cities: Global Report on Human Settlements
2009. Earthscan, London

40	 OECD (2006) Competitive Cities in the Global Economy, OECD, Paris

37	 Ibid.
39	 Pengfei, Ni (2011) Driving factors of Prosperity: An Empirical Analysis Global Cities,
background paper for ‘State of the World Cities Report 2012/13’
41	 Ibid.

16	 UN-Habitat(2009) op. cit.

42	 Pengfei, Ni (2011) op. cit.

17	 Sharma, S. (2005) ‘Democracy, good governance, and economic development’,
Taiwan Journal of Democracy, vol 3 (1), pp: 29-62.

43	 UNODC (2005) Crime and Development in Africa, http://www.unodc.org/pdf/
African_report.pdf

18	 Sharma, S. (2005) op. cit.

44	 Moser, C. , A.Winton, and A.Moser (2005) ‘Violence, Fear among the Urban Poor
in Latin America’ In The Urban Poor in Latin America, Fay, M (ed.) World Bank,
Washington, DC.	

19	 Holcombe, R. G. (2012) ‘Democracy and Prosperity,’ in Young, B. C. (ed.) Institutional
Economics and National Competitiveness, Routledge, London
20	 World Bank and International Finance Corporation (2011) Doing Business 2012:
Doing Business in a More Transparent World, World Bank.Washington DC

45	 Moser, C. O. N. and J. Holland (1997) ‘Confronting crisis in Chawama, Lusaka
Zambia’, Household Responses to Poverty and Vulnerability, Vol 4, Urban Programme
Management Policy Paper 24, World Bank, Washington, DC.

21	 The Economist (2012) ‘Business in Rwanda: Africa’s Singapore?’, The Economist,
February 25, http://www.economist.com/node/21548263

46	 UNODC (2005) op.cit.

22	 World Bank (2009) Getting people and traffic moving again in Lagos, http://web.
worldbank.org/WBSITE/EXTERNAL/EXTABOUTUS/IDA/0,,contentMDK:22229765~men
uPK:4754051~pagePK:51236175~piPK:437394~theSitePK:73154,00.html
23	

47	 Hamermesh, D. S. (1998) Crime and the Timing of Work, National Bureau of
Economic Research Working Paper 6613,NBER, Boston

BBC (2011) ‘South Africa Gautrain opens Johannesburg-Pretoria route’, BBC News,
August 2, http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-africa-14371113

102

Chapter 3.2

Innovating to Support
the Transition to the
City of the 21st Century

Creativity and
The cities
innovation are largely
and countries
influenced by six main
best placed for economic
types of factors: (1)
growth and prosperity are
locational advantages
those that invest in building
(i.e., economies of
knowledge and innovation
institutions and related
agglomeration and
systems with strong support
‘positive externalities’
from public authorities and
at regional scale); (2)
the private sector.3
knowledge networks; (3)
cultural factors; (4) the
economic environment;
(5) organizational factors; and (6) state/government
interventions (i.e., policies, incentives, institutions).
‘Innovation’, as glorified in association with ‘creative
cities’, the ‘creative class’ and ‘city competition’, more often
than not is in the sole benefit of business and economic
elites,4 and it fails to integrate the various dimensions
of prosperity, particularly equitable development and
environmental sustainability.
Innovation is a creative capital that is brought to bear
on various dimensions of development and prosperity,
in the process unleashing undeveloped potential and
making fuller use of local resources and assets. The
culture of creativity must be embedded in the way
cities operate.6 Therefore, it is not just for government
or business, but also
for communities and
the public at large to
Innovation, as
defined in this
contribute their own
Report, is a broader
powers of imagination.
notion that has to do
And this has to be not just
with creative approaches
encouraged but legitimised
to planning, economy,
as well, in a bid to broaden
social inclusion,
the range of solutions to
environment, culture and
local identity.5
urban issues.

policy

Cities have played a major role in creativity and innovation
throughout history. Creative people and systems,
innovative milieus, knowledge creation mechanisms,
and new technological developments have all primarily
happened in cities and all contributed to societal
development and prosperity.
Creativity and innovation involve a variety of areas
that range from technology, institutions and organizations,
modes of operation, information and knowledge, finance
and human development. Innovation can also take a
variety of forms, including improved project design and
quality, changes in organization and management, higher
efficiency, high- and medium-tech industrial development,
creation of new linkages and coordination mechanisms,
scientific research and
the commercialisation
of technical knowledge.1
Creativity and
This goes to show that, to
innovation
a large extent, creativity
can flourish in many
and innovation are already
other areas that do
embedded in economic
not automatically
contribute to economic
functions and under
development per se
the control of financial
such as developing and
capital.2 In technologies
managing urban life,
and the arts alike,
the renewal of social
innovation is increasingly
institutions, better urban
dominated by the private
policies, development of
knowledge networks, etc.
sector.

fact

fact

103

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

and where links can flourish among both individuals and
institutions. In practice, all of this requires well-adapted
physical environments, which in turn have to do with
urbanization economies9 and better urban planning. From
a more institutional point of view, support to knowledge
exchange and networking is another way of stimulating
creative capital, along with favourable conditions for
research and development. As for the productive sector,
creative stimulation can also derive from economies of
agglomeration and an entrepreneur-friendly environment.
It may come as no surprise that in Asia, most
local experts saw a strong link between research and
development (R&D), on the one hand, and enhanced
prosperity on the other, with public authorities and other
stakeholders playing significant roles in the areas of
business, industry and technology.
This was the case in Singapore, Hyderabad and
Bangalore (India), Shenzhen and Chongqing (China),
Gaziantep (Turkey) and Cebu (the Philippines). In
Singapore, gross expenditure on R&D increased from
1.9 per cent in 1990 to 2.8 per cent 2008 and three
per cent in 201010, with the focus on applied research,
technology, sustainable urban living and ‘clean’ energy.11
In Bangalore, the emergence of the city as a knowledge
hub is a visible impact of policy, entrepreneurship and
innovation. With more than 66 engineering colleges and
55 polytechnics, the city has developed as a centre for
scientific innovation, research in aeronautics and electronics
with strong public research facilities.12 Biotechnologies
and computer/communications also feature highly in
Hyderabad, India’s pharmaceutical capital, with support
from central government and more than 40 research
and educational institutions.13 Shenzhen has developed
an endogenous innovation strategy led by the state with
investments from government agencies, industries and
universities. In few years,
the city has developed a
high-tech, modern service
UN-Habitat
industry, actively promoting
survey shows
industrial transformation
that five main factors
and upgrade, focusing
are at play when cities
innovate: innovative
on electronics, biological
urban management,
engineering and new
entrepreneurial capacity,
material technology.
the promotion of
The city has also made
arts and culture, the
important innovations
emergence of industrial
in the service industry
clusters, and research
and development (R&D).
(finance, logistics and

Box 3.2.1
Measuring Innovation and Creativity
In 2000 a “Creative City Index” was developed to measure
‘the imaginative pulse of cities’, combining a variety of
indicators ranging from political and public frameworks,
diversity, vitality and expression, openness and tolerance,
entrepreneurship, vision, liveability, learning and
professionalism, among 10 specific dimensions. In 2007,
Melbourne-based “2thinkNow” developed an “Innovation
Cities Program” along with an “Innovation Cities Index” in a
bid to enhance understanding of the links between innovation
and the way cities operate. The measure also uses a large
variety of indicators, involving cultural assets, infrastructure
and networked markets in areas such as commerce, finance,
food, the arts, health, technology, religion, the media, etc.
On this basis, cities are classified in five categories: ‘nexus’
(cities featuring critical innovations),’hub’ (cities that are
influential in key areas), ‘node’ (cities combining broadranging performance and imbalances), ‘influencer’ (cities that
are competitive but unbalanced on the whole), and ‘upstart’
(cities with potential for future performance).
Source: UN-Habitat (2012) Decentralization in Iraq: Challenges and
Solutions for Federal and Local Governments, Nairobi: UN-Habitat

policy

A creative city must establish a balance between
‘hardware’ factors – infrastructure and technology –
and ‘software’ factors (including mind-set, dynamics of place, the
connection between thinkers and doers, and a change-friendly
environment).7

The Factors behind Urban Innovativeness
Innovation can emanate from a creative worker, a
community leader, a business person, an artist, a public
servant or a scientist, etc. Innovation can respond to a
specific problem, reduce risks, anticipate challenges, result
in new products or process, or harness existing or emerging
opportunities. For the purposes of urban prosperity,
innovation has a clear role in improved conditions for
populations and the way they live, work, move, relax and
more generally make the most of the urban advantage.
If its existing
creative capital is to be
enhanced, or activated
The culture of
where dormant, a city
creativity must
should become a locus
be embedded in the way
cities operate.8
where sociocultural
diversity can be staged,

fact

policy

104

Innovating to Support the Transition to the City of the 21st Century

Singapore: an innovative bronze sculpture of five boys jumping into the river for a swim, by local sculptor Chong Fah Cheong, installed at
the Open Air Interpretive Centre along the Singapore River serves to remind viewers of the essential freedoms that underpin a vital and
prosperous city.
© Sengkang

105

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

culture) as a way to drive
economic growth and
prosperity.14 Still in China,
Chongqing has utilized
a state-led investment to
stimulate the economy and
improve social welfare by
optimizing endogenous
development through
research and technology.
Chongqing strategy “Three
Centers, Two Hubs, and
One Base” connects
business, finance and education with a strong support of
infrastructure, communication and a modern base of hightech industry.15 In southeast Turkey, Gaziantep – one of
the oldest inhabited cities in the world – has deliberately
embraced R&D and innovation, with various educational
institutions explicitly supporting entrepreneurship. Business
has cooperated with public authorities to launch a number
of initiatives known as Trademark City, Smart Industry,
Teknopark, Innovation Valley and R&D Movement to

open up markets, diversify the economy and promote
employment in the search of prosperity.16
With the exception of South Africa and Brazil, which
recorded the highest expenditure on R&D as a percentage
of GDP in their respective regions (around 1 per cent
in 2008), the Latin America region and the Sub-Saharan
Africa had an average expenditure of about 0.6 per cent.
In some African countries such as Mali, Mozambique,
Nigeria, Senegal, Uganda, Zambia, among many others, this
expenditure was under 0.4 per cent.17

fact

In contrast to
Asia, the share
of R&D as a per cent of
GDP expenditure in Africa
and Latin America is low,
where not next to nil. In the
absence of any systematic
public sector involvement,
creativity and innovation
largely remain the purview
of the private sector.

A Variety of Social and
Institutional Innovations

Many factors stand in the way of urban innovation,
especially in developing countries. Not all these factors
have been sufficiently identified, understood or addressed.
Still, seven major types of deficiency seem to play significant
roles: (1) poor physical and knowledge infrastructure; (2) an
absence of appropriate innovation policies (due to lack of
interest or understanding); (3) limited financial resources;
(4) weak local institutions (formal or informal); (5)
unavailability of human resources (number and qualification
of personnel); (6) lack of
stakeholder participation
Nairobi, Kenya: children play in a schoolyard in Kibera. The newly introduced Pesapal system enables
and coordination in
school fees to be paid by the Internet or mobile telephone.
the elaboration and
© Meunierd/Shutterstock.com
implementation of
innovation policies; and (7)
poor incentives (if any).
In other cases, the
problems instead lie
in technology transfer
and poor adaptation
to local know-how.18
But then ‘home-made’
innovations, too, can be
poorly related to local
and national conditions,
or overlook the needs
of the underprivileged,
when they fail “to take
into due consideration the
plurality of knowledge and
technological options” that
are locally available.19
The city of
Johannesburg has adopted
an innovative governance
106

Innovating to Support the Transition to the City of the 21st Century

model to rebuild local government and improve service
delivery. Bangalore in India has launched technologybased public-private experiments in governance in a bid
better to deliver public services, too. In Latin America
and the Caribbean, Rosario, just like Santo Domingo, has
introduced significant institutional innovations in terms of
participatory governance. In Nairobi, Kenya, the private
sector has launched ‘Pesapal’ a new payment platform
enabling low- and middle-income residents to conduct
e-commerce transactions and even to pay school fees via cell
phones or the Internet.
Many other social and institutional innovations involve
the creation of new systems and models to meet the needs
of underserved populations in a more efficient, effective,
and sustainable manner. In Iran’s Tehran, the scope of the
WHO-UN-Habitat ‘Urban HEART’ Programme has been
extended to assess equity under not just under the health
dimension but also a more general social perspective.
Shenzhen has created a multilevel social security system
that includes basic social insurance, poverty insurance,
compensation for job seekers, and special care for patients
and the disabled, which includes the migrant population
that represents up to 75 per cent of the population.20
Chongqing has created investment companies to activate
state-owned capital to speed up the construction of
infrastructure and public facilities, using a combination of
innovative funding mechanisms: taxes, land reserves, fees,
state bonds and state-owned capital.21
Social and institutional innovation can take the form of
enlightened rules or legislation. In Cebu, the Philippines, an
ordinance now encourages those employed in outsourced
business processing services to enrol in (post)graduate
studies, in a bid to expand the pool of highly skilled people.
Rosario, Argentina, has declared itself a “Human Rights
City”, with a commitment to openness, transparency and
accountability.22 Some other institutional innovations
connect urban planning and design with the use of social
public space. In Colombia,
Bogotá has improved
many diverse public spaces
Innovations are
(sidewalks, public parks
often copied
or transferred from
and libraries) in a bid to
abroad. More often than
rebuild social cohesion.
not though, this causes
Singapore’s ‘Skyway’ is a
problems as foreign
spectacular aerial walkway
innovation runs against
among giant man-made
the grain of the social or
trees that collect rainwater
cultural features of the
target communities.
and generate solar energy,

and is an invitation to view
the city from a different
perspective. In Korea,
the municipality of Seoul
resorts to urban design to
improve the efficiency and
enhance the attractiveness
of the city with innovative
projects, such as the ‘Han
River Renaissance’ scheme
and the ‘City in the Park’
initiative.23

policy

Cities have
interest
to promote social and
institutional innovations in
response to local problems
to address social needs
and improve the efficiency
and quality of urban
management.

The Transformative Power of Innovations
Almost by definition, innovation processes are not linear,
nor are they easily controllable. However, as far as urban
innovation is concerned, a consistent basic pattern seems to
be at work. Whether in response to new risks or immediate
emergencies, or in more ordinary circumstances, urban
innovation seems to result from cooperation and dialogue
among a broad variety of stakeholders. Such dialogue acts
as a catalyst, bringing together a variety of perspectives,
resources, capacities and types of human capital.24
Innovations introduce knowledge, products, processes
and programmes that change the ways of doing business or
using resources, or even social attitudes and preferences.
Innovations are at the core of all economic processes and
they contribute to knowledge generation and information
flows’.25 Innovations of a technological nature have added
value and helped transform
the urban space (e.g.,
connectivity, proximity
It is in cities’
and distance, de-location
best interests
of manufacturing).
to strengthen the links
between policy-makers,
Although innovations
business, academia, civil
take place mainly in major
society and a variety of
metropolitan centres,
practitioners to promote
they are not restricted to
urban innovations.
big cities.
The transformative
power of innovation is
Local authorities
closely linked to the various
are becoming
components of prosperity –
increasingly aware that
productivity, infrastructure,
promoting interactions,
quality of life, equity
synergies and adequate
and environmental
environments can
sustainability. Innovation
enhance local creative
capital and prosperity.
can contribute to any of

policy

fact

fact

107

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

these dimensions or respond to the supporting institutions
and policies at the core of these dimensions (see the
‘Wheel of Prosperity’, Chapter 1.4) steering the course
of the city along the path of prosperity and sustainable
development. From this more general, strategic perspective,
innovation can bring four major types of benefits: (1)
reviving and sustaining the social economy (e.g.. better
policies for human needs satisfaction); (2) changes in
social relations (e.g. new societal arrangements, new social
pact); (3) reinforcing existing, or creating new, institutions
for improved urban management and governance (e.g.,
regulation of land or social conflicts, new legislation);
and (4) forward-looking changes to the urban space (e.g.
resource redistribution, expanded access to services and
public goods). Any value added by all these social and

institutional innovations will accrue primarily to society
as a whole, rather than private individuals or groups26,
enhancing the prospects of prosperity and giving its full
meaning to the notion of ‘spatial justice’.27
Being a social construct, any city can be steered and
shaped towards higher levels of prosperity. A fresh, different
vision of urban planning and design can combine with new,
more insightful change narratives and development ideas.
As urban risks and challenges keep changing over space
and time, existing safeguards, instruments or mechanisms
must come under review and be adjusted as and where
required. Innovation must also help reduce the cost of
urban living. Innovative rules and legislation must support
the transformation of the existing urban model. The
current model is unsustainable for several reasons: endless
physical expansion, intensive energy use, alarming and
dangerous contributions to climate change, multiple forms
of inequality and exclusion, and inability to provide decent
jobs and livelihoods.28 If ongoing urbanization is to usher
in the city of the 21st century, then this transformation must
be grounded in a more effective and sustainable use of
urban space. The city of the 21st century is a reinvented city
that is more productive, equitable and sustainable. It is a
more prosperous city.

Urban Prosperity Through
Planning and Design
In the midst of ongoing demographic, socioeconomic or
environmental cross-currents, cities must reassert control
over their destinies with reinvigorated urban planning and
design for the sake of shared prosperity and harmonious
development.
This imperative comes as a reminder of the fact that so
far, in most cities of the developing world, modern urban
planning (where any) has proved unable to nurture shared
socioeconomic advancement. For all the paraphernalia of
legislation, complex regulations and spatial design plans,
a majority of those cities have continued with the flawed
models which, as ‘advanced’ countries have finally found
out, are unsustainable in a variety of ways.
Cities have found themselves woefully unprepared
in the face of the spatial and demographic challenges
associated with urbanization, not to mention those of
an environmental nature. With a few commendable

A pedestrian bridge (part of the railing stolen for scrap) near Cape
Town, South Africa
© 2012 Rodger Shagam/fotoLIBRA.com

108

Innovating to Support the Transition to the City of the 21st Century

exceptions, modern urban planning has failed to integrate
the urban poor in the socioeconomic fabric of the city.
As an expert in Bangalore put it, “The poor have survived
despite master planning.”30 Understood primarily as a
technical tool, planning has been unable to address the
power relations that have been at work to the detriment of
the great majorities of urban populations. Planning has also
proved unable to prevent environmental degradation or the
formation of slums, and is notable for serious shortcomings
in terms of transport and urban mobility.
Conceived as a comprehensive, long-term strategy,
a master plan – the quintessence of modern planning –
typically represents an ideal end-state for a particular city
with serious gaps between the initial vision and actual
results. This has ensued in what a scholar in 1996 called
“the dark side of planning”31, something an expert in
Montevideo has referred to as “urban plans that are at odds
with the notion of prosperity.”32
The shortcomings of modern urban planning have
triggered significant reform since the 1980s and 1990s, in an
effort to move away from comprehensive plans, top-down
decision-making and wide-ranging regulation.33 A more
flexible approach was adopted to improve conditions in
cities, through ‘strategic planning’ and other methods that
are more pragmatic, incremental and typically focused on
‘getting things done’. However, too many ‘strategic urban
plans’ have effectively imposed an entrepreneurial view of
the city, promoting mostly economic prosperity and often
turning into marketing gimmicks in all but name, complete
with oversized architectural designs and mega-developments.
In emerging or developing countries, these initiatives
typically favour the gentrification of entire areas and, at times,
massive displacement in order to make room for highways,
skyscrapers, luxury compounds, shopping malls, etc., at the
expense of the habitat and livelihoods of the poor.34
UN-Habitat policy analysis in 50 cities in Asia, Africa,
Latin America and the Arab States (2011) shows that up
to 80 per cent of local
experts believe that the
benefits of economic
Whatever
prosperity mainly serve the
the planning
approach, powerful
interests of the wealthy and
political and economic
politicians (a view shared
interests keep interfering
by up to 90 per cent of
with the design and
African experts). Through
implementation of
political influence, bribery
strategic plans and
and corruption, these
the pursuit of urban
prosperity for all.
powerful interest groups

fact

From Asia to Africa to Latin America, ‘master’,
‘blueprint’ and layout plans have had similar,
harmful consequences in countless numbers of cities: spatial
segregation, social exclusion, excessive mobility needs and
consumption of energy, together with poor regard for the
potential economies of scale and agglomeration that any city
can offer.29

manage to distort urban plans, dodge spatial or legal rules,
reduce the production of public goods and manipulate
the power of eminent domain; in the process they
capture unfair shares of  a city’s potential, resources and
prosperity to the detriment of large, poor majorities of
urban populations.
The New Urbanism Movement of the early 1980s
broke with conventional master-planning and introduced
a number of welcome innovations: liveable, pedestrianfriendly cities, dense neighbourhoods with mixes of
housing and job-creating commercial and business sites,
together with mixed land uses having a diversity of
buildings in terms of style, size, price and function – all
of this with a strong focus on local communities.35 For all
these fresh efforts, though, a conventional approach to
urban development has remained dominant to this day.
In developing and emerging countries alike, cities are still
hostages to a mix of homogeneous forms or functions on
the one hand, and spatial /social segregation on the other
hand. Urban areas continue to expand across endless
peripheries, with serious, pervasive problems of traffic
congestion, enhancing the dependence on motor vehicles
and intensive use of expensive fossil fuels. This dominant
type of city is detrimental to the built heritage and the
environment, including
surrounding agricultural
land, as well as biodiversity.
Today, the
This is the pattern which
GS20C
UN-Habitat refers to as
model appears to be
the “Global Standard
predominant across
Urbanization Model
the world, being
largely driven by land
of the 20th Century”
speculation and real
36
(GS20C), which
estate interests that
privileges individualism,
build cities according to
consumerism, new
financial and economic
(artificial) values and
parameters often
lifestyles, excessive mobility
radically at odds with
shared prosperity.37
and privatization of the
public space.

fact

fact

109

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

Re-positioning Urban Planning at the
Hub of the Wheel of Prosperity

making; (iii) deployment of the fullness of its functions
across the five dimensions of shared prosperity; and (iv)
support for these functions with adequate financing.
Restoration of confidence: Public confidence must
be restored in the capacity of urban planning (alongside
other urban power functions) to represent the interests of
all the population – including the poor, women, children,
youth, elderly or disabled people, immigrants and ethnic
minorities – so that the public, collective interest prevails at
all times and across the whole jurisdiction over any other,
and more particularly the vested or special interests of the
rich and powerful.
Repositioning: If it is to play this stronger role to the
full, urban planning must be re-positioned. No longer a
mere technical functionality, urban planning must sit at the
core of urban power. Urban planning can only be as good
as the values it represents and the governance mechanisms
that frame it.

“The city has many scars to treat and many wounds to cure;
urban planning is powerless to do that”38, claims an expert in
Santo Domingo (Dominican Republic). Still, in the 50 cities
surveyed by UN-Habitat in 2011, efficient urban planning
and urban management are perceived as the most important
conditions for shared
prosperity.39
For any revival or
If urban planning
reinvigoration
of urban
is to be in a
planning to take place
better position to address
in the pursuit of shared
the shortcomings of the
GS20C model, both theory
prosperity, four conditions
and practice must come
must be met: (i) restoration
under serious review to
of public confidence; (ii)
‘rescue’ the discipline from
repositioning of urban
its role as a mere technical
planning in decisiontool, restoring it to its

policy

rightful position in the public
sphere.

Box 3.2.2

policy

As a decisionmaking tool
urban planning must better
defend the ‘public’ against
the menace of everexpanding ‘private’ interests
and its consequences:
shrinking public spaces
and reduced provision of
public goods, which affect
more collective, intangible
dimensions like quality
of life, social interaction,
cultural identity and social
values.

fact

Very often
planning has
failed to represent correctly
collective values and
agreements, instead
of contributing to the
perpetuation of the urban
divide with daunting,
outdated, irrelevant
requirements.

Streetwise versus Petrol-Powered Prosperity
In Peru’s capital Lima, it has taken ‘only’ an open-air public staircase all the way downhill to the city
centre to change the name of an informal settlement from fearful ‘Quick Sands’ to ‘The Belt of Hope’.
This goes to show the regenerating power of planning for urban public spaces and their decisive role
in shared prosperity – well away from the constraints of the outdated automobile-based model of
urban development.
Indeed, public spaces, as symbolized by ‘the street’, can make significant contributions to
socioeconomic prosperity, if only they are adequately configured. The street acts as the interface
between public and private spaces, with retail businesses and jobs dependent on the quality of the
pedestrian environment. In British towns, customers were found to spend nearly twice as much
when walking instead of driving. In Mexico, research has shown that ‘walkability’ improves home
and land values.
Public spaces provide the physical support for urban infrastructure. However, particularly in
the developing world, streets are designed mainly for motorized traffic, overlooking the human
dimension and only adding to congestion with more or wider streets. The resulting huge imbalance
in transport options damages other aspects of urban functionality. A number of cities have
sought to counter this trend in a variety of ways. As early as 1962 motor vehicles were banned
from Copenhagen’s main street and bicycle commuting was facilitated. In Melbourne, improved
sidewalks, new pedestrian streets, squares and urban design have together increased pedestrian
traffic by 39 per cent in daytime and 100 per cent at night. Combined with other modes of popular
transport like biking and walking, Bus Rapid Transport (BRT) has spread from Curitiba (Colombia)
to Jakarta, Bogotá, Guatemala City, Guangzhou, Istanbul, Mexico City, Brisbane and Los Angeles,
among others.
Upgraded and better designed public spaces have the potential to improve overall quality of life.
In Cape Town under the Dignified Places Programme, more than 40 projects have brought dignity,
beauty and better functionality to various areas, in the process demonstrating that after decades of
repression it was once again possible to meet and talk in a shared space.

110

Innovating to Support the Transition to the City of the 21st Century

Working on the five ‘spokes’: Interdependencies and
interactions among the five ‘spokes’ in the ‘wheel of urban
prosperity’ (productivity, infrastructure, quality of life,
equity and environmental sustainability) can be deliberately
enhanced (as opposed to being allowed to occur all by
themselves) through the strategies and interventions that
are part and parcel of urban planning. More specifically, it
is in the power of a well-planned decision or well-calibrated
choice in one dimension of prosperity − for example, the
design of a street supporting multimodal transport as part
of the infrastructure development of the city − not just to
make that particular part of the urban space more accessible
or pedestrian-friendly, but in the process also to improve
productivity (shops, street-trading, etc.), quality of life and
social inclusion (see Box 3.2.1.).
Financial support: For urban planning to work more
efficiently as an urban power function, it must be reinforced
from a financial and legal point of view. Cities need more
permanent funding mechanisms to support the provision
of public goods and the design and implementation of
sustainable technical solutions if their performance and
functionality are to be improved.
Few cities or countries are in a proper legal position to
do that, and where they are, they find themselves faced with
systematic interference by special interest groups or political
expediency.40 Here again, the public interest must prevail,
and governments must look to improve and enforce the
mechanisms that enable local authorities to capture urban
land and site values, in the process generating the revenues
needed to extend prosperity to the poorest areas.41

policy

Restoring urban planning at the central point of the
‘wheel’, where a solid and efficient institutional ‘hub’
holds together, controls and activates the five ‘spokes’ , can only
enhance the conditions for sustained, shared prosperity.

policy

an expert in Panama
Land legislation
City.42 Either by action or
and planning
must
combine
to put
omission, this type of urban
municipal
authorities
planning contributes to
in a better position to
the production of spatial
extract land values and
inequities, rather than
related capital gains, with
better shared prosperity.
the additional revenue
This reinvigorated
available for the funding of
infrastructure extensions
notion of urban planning
and other projects.
comes with a new value
system that relies on
effective institutions, welladapted laws and regulations, sustainable urban solutions and
active civic involvement in public affairs. This type of planning
signals a paradigm shift towards a new urban pattern − the
city of the 21st century: a city that can better respond to the
challenges of our age, optimizing resources to harness the
potentialities of the future; a people-centred city, one that is
capable of transcending the inefficient, unsustainable GS20C
model, in the process integrating and nurturing the five
dimensions of urban prosperity as defined in this Report.
However, if urban planning is to be reinvigorated, it
must shift away from the ‘spoke’ of productivity, where it has
been predominantly operating these past several decades,
to the centre of the ‘wheel’, right in the ‘hub’: indeed this
is where, as an urban power function, planning will be in a
better position to make its beneficial influence felt across all
the ‘spokes’, increasing the
scope of shared prosperity
across the whole of the
The 21st
city. This will, of course,
century is in a
involve political choices
position to ensure equitable
and commitments, which
development, preserve
the natural environment,
must be turned into tools,
promote inexpensive energy
regulations and sustainable
sources, provide necessary
technical solutions, which
infrastructures and ensure
will be all the better
inclusive economic growth.
accepted by society at large
The city of the 21st century
as they are seen to embed
builds the conditions of
prosperity for all.
shared prosperity across the
whole urban space.

Expanding Prosperity:
Changing City Landscapes
In many cities, urban planning has been instrumentalised by
the real estate business. Cities that respond to the interests
of the better-off or only focus on strategic economic
interventions in specific spaces tend to create enclaves of
prosperity for a select few.
Urban planning can be
so unrealistic or overUN-Habitat
ambitious as to overlook
calls for
a fresh, different type
the need to steer and
of urban planning and
control spatial expansion,
design – one that has
with large parts of the city
the power to transform
ignoring existing plans or
city landscapes and
regulations. “The city falls
expand existing
out of the map, making
enclaves of prosperity
to the entire city.
it irrelevant”, deplores

policy

policy

111

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

Facilitating Access to ‘Commons’,
Providing Public Goods, Implementing
Sustainable Solutions

concentrating public investment in selected areas only,
limiting access and privatizing control over a number of
such goods.
The provision of public goods contributes to
economic advancement with environmental preservation
and quality of life, which, incidentally, are fundamental
‘smart growth’ concerns, too.45 Bogotá has transformed
its own landscape with a variety of public goods such as
multi-modal transport, social infrastructure and quality
public spaces that have contributed to sharing more of
the benefits of prosperity with poor and middle-income
neighbourhoods. Still in Colombia, Medellín has resorted
to bold civic architecture, public spaces and other public
goods in a bid to enhance collective prosperity. Involvement
of urban planning with education, culture, infrastructure,
safety and community development has enabled the
municipality to connect poor barrios (which, according to
the head of municipal planning, “always had lots of energy,
but were disconnected from the city”) with more affluent
neighbourhoods, in the process planting the seeds of mutual
trust and expanding shared prosperity.46
Acting from the ‘hub’ of the ‘wheel for prosperity’,
urban planning can identify strategies and plan for optimal
production of public goods, in the process contributing
to social capital, enhancing sense of place, safety and
security, integrating social groups (e.g., youth), and
increasing the economic value of the areas where these
goods are provided. This strategy can generate widespread
benefits to all urban residents, expanding prosperity across
different areas. Such prosperity in turn can be leveraged for
maintenance and further enhancement of public goods.
Implementing Sustainable Solutions: Prosperous cities
must plan and implement a variety of technical solutions
to improve the functionality of the city and achieve a
sustainable urban form.
Although solutions can
vary according to local
A
conditions, UN-Habitat
reinvigorated
has identified a number
notion of urban planning
of key interventions in
would give any city
various areas to assist the
tighter public control
over the use of land,
transition away from the
change the form and
current “Global Standard
function of cities
Urbanization Model of the
based on sustainable
20th Century” (GS20C),
development principles,
which is unsustainable
as well as expand the
on many accounts, to the
provision of, and access
to, public goods.
city of the 21st century.

Facilitating Access to ‘Commons’: A prosperous city
facilitates equitable access to the ‘commons’. These include
water, air, biodiversity, knowledge and other shared
resources, including public infrastructure, together with
more intangible forms like a better environment, sense of
identity and cultural and symbolic spaces that in principle
belong to everyone.
Cities with islands of prosperity tend to enclose the
‘commons’, restrict their use to a selected few, or deplete
them through unsustainable use.
Prosperous cities require ‘commons resource pools’,
which can take the form of institutional arrangements where
conflicts are solved through negotiation, and consensus is
built for decision-making. ‘Commons’ also include any legal
or statutory provisions facilitating community participation
in planning decisions, available quality information,
transparency as well as cultural norms and social compacts.
Some public goods, such as community civic centres,
will often be found to function as ‘space commons’,
facilitating the integration of marginal and voiceless groups,
in the process promoting pluralism and diversity, which are
inseparable from shared prosperity.
Providing public goods43: A prosperous city makes a
profusion of public goods available to all: efficient public
transport, educational
opportunities, healthcare,
quality public spaces such
UN-Habitat’s
as libraries, recreation
reinvigorated
areas, parks and open
notion of urban planning
spaces, etc. A substantial
involves sustainable use
and equitable access to
part of urban well-being
the ‘commons’ through
is derived from access to
appropriate policies and
and consumption of these
schemes.
public goods, which in
principle must be ‘nonexcludable’ (everyone can
enjoy their benefits) and
In general, the
production AND
‘non-rivalry’ (individual
enjoyment of public goods
consumption of the good
rely on a set of ‘commons’
does not decrease the
such as better connectivity,
amount available for
public security and safety,
consumption by others).44
predictability, property rights
Enclaves of prosperity
under their various forms,
street nomenclature, etc.
‘fence in’ or restrict the
availability of public goods,

policy

policy

fact

112

Innovating to Support the Transition to the City of the 21st Century

As suggested earlier, it is in the power of well-calibrated
planning rules and interventions to help embed the five
dimensions of shared prosperity across the length and
breadth of any urban jurisdiction.
Making more functional the city, preserving access to the
commons and producing useful public goods can be achieved
through five different, sustainable types of intervention:
Increase population density to sustainable levels: More
intense land occupation and activities result in sustainable
population densities which contain or reduce urban sprawl
and depletion of limited resources. Greater proximity will, in
turn, facilitate supply and distribution of goods and services.
An efficient layout (together with adequate land legislation
and policies) can reduce the cost of infrastructure. On top
of suburban densification and sprawl remediation, land use
can be intensified through area redevelopment, planning for
new areas with higher densities, ‘brownfield’ development
(i.e., decontaminating and developing land previously used
for industrial or certain commercial purposes), building
conversions, and transit-oriented developments.
Encourage social
diversity and mixed
land-use: Land planning
can bring about
clusters of land uses in
appropriate locations,
with the flexibility
needed to adapt to the
changing requirements
of the population. Urban
planning must facilitate the
deployment of common
spaces that allow encounter,
interaction and dialogue
between different socialethnic groups. Moreover,
physical urban structure
facilitates communication
between economic activities
and residential areas,
providing employment
and services on a
neighbourhood scale, with
positive repercussions on
productivity, infrastructure,
equity, quality of life and
the environment. Urban
design strengthens and

policy

Acting at the space level (form and function of the
city), urban planning can steer the overall functioning
of the ‘wheel’, modulating each dimension of prosperity and
ensuring synergies between them in order to maintain overall
balance and sustainable growth, regardless of city size or level of
development.

empowers structures through infrastructure and facilities
(education, healthcare, commerce, manufacturing and
culture/entertainment).
Devise multimodal mobility strategies: Urban planning
can provide alternatives to the current widespread
dependency on private motorised vehicles and reinforce

London, UK: the Olympic Park for the 2012 Olympics Stratford
was constructed on brownfield sites in an area of East London
that had been previously rundown. After the Olympic games, the
site is to be used to accommodate low cost housing as well as
leisure activities.
© 2012 Alistair Laming/fotoLIBRA.com

113

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

use of public transport in combination with non-motorized
modes and proper sidewalks. An integrated urban transport
strategy generates immediate effects on productivity, including
reductions in travel times. Improved transport systems come
with environmental benefits such as better air quality due to
reduced exhaust fumes. Accessibility for all potential users is
essential to ensure equal mobility opportunities.
Plan infill development and guided expansion: Urban
planning must combine both of these for the sake of proper
density and provision of affordable urban land. Infill
development can revitalize dilapidated areas in the city. In
those developing countries where urbanization continues
apace, new areas must be developed for the benefit of
newcomers if further slum expansion is to be avoided.
Properly planned spatial patterns can reduce pressure on
land, provide for urban services and alleviate the burden
over existing infrastructure. In addition, forward-looking
planning can put a halt to land speculation while facilitating
access to affordable housing and urban services.
Promote Livable public spaces and vibrant streets:
Public spaces and streets must be seen as multifunctional
areas for social interaction, economic exchange and cultural
expression among a wide diversity of participants. It is for
planning to organize for those public spaces, and for design
to encourage their use, in the process enhancing a sense of
identity and belonging. Safety and security are important
dimensions to be considered in any such design, together
with vital underground infrastructure (water, energy and
communications).

advances along the five dimensions of prosperity are either
accelerated or impeded by existing bodies of laws and
regulations, the strength of enforcement, as well as by the
configuration, capacity and flexibility of the institutions
responsible for steering urban development. In recent years,
there has been a resurgence of policy reviews and scholarly
studies striving to address the normative and organizational
underpinnings of urban change.
To paraphrase Amartya Sen’s dictum about nations
and democracy, a city does not need to be deemed fit for a
prosperity-oriented legal and institutional system; rather,
it must become fit through such a system – which, again, is
needed now, and for the city as a whole.47
At a time when so many crisis-struck nations find that a
fresh start on the path of prosperity depends more than ever
on cities, these must mobilise their potential to the full.48
More than ever, cities need empowering, not forbidding
legal and institutional systems for their prosperity. Cities
need such systems now − and they are at hand’s reach,
if only public authorities found the political will (as this
chapter will show, some do). The universal demand for
justice, fairness and legitimacy transcends cultural barriers.
Therefore, it can be met in a variety of ways through a
variety of frameworks, as determined by local urban power
functions. These form the hub that drives the ‘wheel of
urban prosperity’, supplying the laws and regulations that
support and shape the five ‘spokes’, adjusting them over
time as conditions, needs and fresh risks may require.
However, in all parts of the world, law and institutions have
always been shaped by the complex interactions of sociocultural factors, with new forces constantly bringing their
own influences to bear.49
Business, academia, civil society – non-governmental
and grassroots organisations, trade unions and professional
associations, political
parties, etc. − are all the
Promoting
legitimate expressions of
prosperity
the various forms which
involves deployment of
a city’s specific potential
proper laws, regulations
can take; and the needs to
and institutions
which these stakeholders
which have a direct
or indirect bearing on
give ‘voice’ relate to the
equity, productivity,
preservation and further
infrastructures and living
development of their
standards, and which
respective potentials.
extend across the length
Urban power
and breadth of the
functions – governance,
whole jurisdiction of the
relevant urban authority.
urban planning, legal and

Empowering Laws
and Institutions for
Urban Prosperity

policy

The success of some of the cities as highlighted in
this Report is based on specific combinations of laws,
regulations, institutions and processes. In almost all cases,

fact

As the proximate reflection of society’s values, and as
an emanation of political and social relations, laws and
institutions serve as the most powerful instrument available to
shape urban development.

114

Innovating to Support the Transition to the City of the 21st Century

Table 3.2.1
Urban Planning/Design & Prosperity
Prosperity
Dimensions

Urban Planning

Commons/Goods/
Sustainable Solutions

Productivity

Harness the benefits of agglomeration economies

Commons

Improve access to productive advantage (knowledge, quality of the environment, etc.)

Commons

Provide sufficient public space for circulation of goods and people and deploy adequate
infrastructure.
Provide efficient transport systems for people and goods

Public goods

Encourage polycentric urban development, allowing synergies between centres and
sub-centres

Sustainable solutions

Promote mixed-land use to enhance economies of agglomeration and scale with better
clustering
Intensify urban nodes and corridors to maximize the benefits of concentration
Infrastructure
development

Provide clean infrastructure, closing ‘energy waste loops’ to preserve climate, air and water
quality Improve connectivity.

Commons

Expand multimodal transport systems with sidewalks and bicycle infrastructure

Public goods

Provide social Infrastructure such as civic centres, libraries, sports facilities, etc.)
Ensure eco-efficiency of infrastructural systems

Sustainable solutions

Support density through integrated infrastructure development, enhancing efficiency and access
Quality of life

Enhance identity and culture through symbolic spaces and heritage preservation

Commons

Improve safety and security
Support place-making through urban design
Ensure high quality of public spaces that engage interaction among communities

Public goods

Promote a system of green spaces

Equity
and social
inclusion

Enhance the role of the street as a multi-functional urban space and integrate natural
spaces and recreational areas

Sustainable solutions

Enhance freedom of movement

Commons

Provide well–located, adequate public infrastructure and amenities (incl. education,
health, recreation, etc.)

Public Goods

Create mixed neighbourhoods with the diversity of jobs and housing options.
Plan infill development and guided expansions

Sustainable solutions

Promote mixed-used land development, ensuring involvement from marginalised groups.
Improve connectivity between neighborhoods and access to services.
Turn land and development thereof into a revenue source.
Environmental
sustainability

Ensure clean air, unpolluted water and preservation of biodiversity.
Act on climate change adaptation/mitigation

Commons

Maximize the natural benefits of the site (sunlight, water bodies, winds, etc.)
Plan for restoration of ecosystems
Enhance public parks, waterfront and ‘green’ areas for recreational and productive purposes

Public goods

Use “passive urban design” to reduce carbon emissions

Sustainable solutions

Plan for urban density to reduce energy consumption and settlements footprint
Reduce fragmentation of natural systems; reduce spatial footprint through careful design of
infrastructure networks and settlements.

115

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

regulatory frameworks and
strong institutions – form
the ‘hub’ that controls the
‘wheel of urban prosperity’
and give it direction,
pace and momentum
(see Chapter 1.1). Shared
prosperity requires the
predominance of the public
interest as embodied in
public authorities50 to
The crucial
ensure that none of the five
role of public
‘spokes’ gain prevalence to
authorities is to harness the
the detriment of the others.
various types of societal
powers and potentials
Abstract values and norms
through appropriate urban
are institutions because
power functions.
they guide individual
and collective action.51
Box 3.2.2 shows how, in
China and in Europe centuries ago, the State imposed the
prevalence of the public over other interests and needs,
treating them all equitably for the sake of shared prosperity.
The powers and functions that are part of the governance
structure of a city may derive from promulgated city charters,
local government frameworks, or directly from the national
Constitution. The rights and responsibilities granted to
individuals and firms in cities are all dictated by prevailing
legal frameworks. Similarly, the interactions among urban
residents as well as the modalities of production, distribution
and consumption of urban space have always been regulated
by explicit and implicit codes of behaviour and practice. The
transformative potential of any city has, therefore, always
been a function of the enabling scope of its laws, regulations
and institutions. The degree to which such instruments can
be deployed as they are, or consolidated, or even reformed
will determine a city’s degree of prosperity.
In the metaphor of the ‘Prosperity Wheel’, the legal and
institutional framework as a whole acts as the ‘hub’ which
steers the development
of the five dimensions
(‘spokes’) of prosperity,
Laws and the
modulating momentum,
associated
relaying its energy to the
institutional set-up
other dimensions, and
have determined the
maintaining the overall
very genesis of the
balance of the ‘wheel’.
modern city, both in its
Internal dysfunctions in
essence as well as its
functionality.
the legal and institutional

framework, or any disconnect between the hub and the
spokes, interferes with the operation of the ‘wheel’ and
makes any existing momentum unsustainable (such as based
on only one of the five dimensions).

fact

In the cities
of the world
today, the power to be
mobilised against the crisis
emanates from a variety of
stakeholders, not just public
authorities, although these
retain a decisive role.

The Legal-Institutional Basis of the
20th-Century City
Advances in industrial development, consolidation of the
market economy and the permeating influence of liberal
democracy (both in its origin in the West and the postcolonial variant in the developing world) have created a
shared legal and regulatory foundation in much of the urban
world. The legal, regulatory and institutional fundamentals
of the contemporary city tend to be identical, differing only
in levels of development, institutional characteristics and
performance ability. Indeed, the legal-institutional basis of
the 20th-century city is fairly uniform; and this explains the
similarities not only in functional modalities but also in the
all-too visible imbalances characterizing the 20th-century
city in its generic sense (i.e., spatial segregation, social
exclusion, a predominance of motorised mobility, high

policy

fact

Karnataka, Bangalore, India: A road sign hangs over the entrance
to ‘Electronics City’, an industrial complex dedicated to the IT
and electronics industries. Located ten miles (16km) outside
Bangalore, the complex has been hugely successful in attracting
foreign investment.
© Chris Stowers/Panos Pictures

116

Innovating to Support the Transition to the City of the 21st Century

Box 3.2.3

fact

Although the 20th-century city tends to exhibit fair
degrees of vibrancy and dynamism, whatever attendant
prosperity it experiences is often skewed and unsustainable – and
therefore ridden with perennial crises.

Individual versus collective interests
The legal foundation of the 20th-century city lies in the
ancient tenets of Roman Law and the Napoleonic Code,
together with the subsequent elaboration into modern civil
and common law. The gist of this legal corpus is the preeminence of the individual, who is considered as possessed
of inherent rights as represented in the 18th century French
Revolution’s Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen.
Within this individualistic legal tradition, property rights reign
supreme, with the emphasis on the rights of owners to the
detriment of their social implications and other, broader,
collective interests, including duties and responsibilities. With
particular regard to urban settings, ‘land and property are
conceived largely as commodities whose economic value is
determined by the owners’ interests.’52 In this system, the
role of the State at all levels is relegated to harmonizing and
mediating these interests, and to oversee those assets and
facilities that require collective use.

developing country. The Statute also “broke with the
long-standing tradition of civil law and set the basis of
a new legal-political paradigm for urban land use and
development control.”53 A prominent scholar highlights
four dimensions of Brazil’s 2001 City Statute: “A
conceptual one, providing elements for the interpretation
of the constitutional principle of the social functions of
urban property and of the city; the regulation of new
instruments for the construction of a different urban order
by the municipalities; the indication of processes for the
democratic management of cities; and the identification
of legal instruments for the comprehensive regularisation
of informal settlements in private and public urban
areas.”54 This new urban legal order has had highly
visible effects. As a nation and at macro-economic level,
Brazil is among a handful of countries in the world that
has been able to achieve remarkable growth rates for
much of the early years of this century, despite the global
economic turbulence. More significantly, Brazilian cities
have been able to expand the middle class segments of
their populations and to improve economic and living
conditions for substantial numbers of poor residents.
Although still very high, cities are reducing income
inequalities, as measured by the Gini coefficient, which
decreased from 0.606 in 1990 to 0.569 in 2009.55

energy consumption and poor regard for the potential for
agglomeration economies.

Towards a New Legal-Urban Order for
Holistic Prosperity
During the last two decades, the pitfalls of the conventional
urban development model have become more glaring. As
shown in the previous section (Urban Prosperity through
Planning and Design) the potential of cities has not been
fully harnessed, a more common trend has developed where
urban development tends to be spatially fragmented and the
benefits of prosperity remains socially segmented.
In contrast, over the past two decades some Brazilian
cities have taken to re-examining the prevailing urban
legal order, with bold practical schemes inspired by a set
of alternative, radical urban doctrines and jurisprudence
which depart from the classical liberal legalism exalting
individualism and private property. After a long period
of consultations and
negotiations, a nationwide
City Statute was adopted
those few
cities featuring
in 2001 enshrining a Right
balanced and
to the City. The Statute
sustainable prosperity
makes an important
have effectively
contribution to urban
deployed adequate
law, facilitating shared
laws, regulations and
prosperity, particularly
institutions in support of
their transformation.
in the context of a

Revitalized ‘Rights to the Commons’ and
Expansion of the Public Realm
‘Commons’ reinforce the social function of property and
that of the city as a whole, while recognizing the dynamism
of private assets. Laws, regulations and institutions as
factors of restraint, opportunity and action, act as the levers
that can optimize the social
function of property and
Shared urban
balance it out with private
prosperity
rights and assets. It must
is about enhancing the
be stressed here that this
public realm, equitable
social function is not about
sharing of public goods and
ownership rights or their
consolidating rights to the
commons for all.
transactional implications.
Rather, it is essentially

fact

policy

117

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

about user rights for
enhanced human value.
The ‘Right to
the Commons’ is an
ancient concept in legal
jurisprudence originating
in feudal England, where
it referred to the extension
of user rights for all on
a manor’s grazing land.
Lately, the notion has
resurfaced in urban settings
(including public goods,
societal institutional
arrangements, public
culture, and heritage sites),
The capacity for
where it is perceived as an
a city to maintain
effective way of countering
extensive and quality
shared spaces and facilities
not just rampant enclosures
provides a good indication
and appropriations, but
of its degree of prosperity.
also the rise of duality
under the form of inequity
and segregation.
In this respect, cities such as Helsinki, Toronto and
Barcelona, which achieve high rankings on the UNHabitat City Prosperity Index (CPI), feature more
extensive public realms than Monrovia, Nairobi or Dakar,
or similar cities with low CPI readings.
Legal and regulatory instruments exert a major
bearing on the origination and preservation of the
commons, and also in ensuring indiscriminate access.
Statutes, ordinances and regulations are the bases for the
guidelines and standards regulating spatial layouts and
construction designs. The same applies to institutional
relationships, functional
allocations and authority
designation, besides
In this era of
resource distribution. The
enclosures,
legal framework in turn
privatization and even
enables civic organisations
invasion of the traditional
urban commons (including
and community activities.
beaches, river banks,
Equally significant is the
forests, school yards and
overall manner in which
even pavements), the size
legal-regulatory and
and quality of a city’s overall
institutional frameworks
public space acts as a
delineate the public and
good indicator of shared
prosperity.
private spheres and guide
the interaction between

and within them in the everyday workings of the city.
One component of the commons that lately has
attracted a lot of attention is the management of public
spaces.56 In Panama City, one of the local experts surveyed
by UN-Habitat put it as follows: “The more degraded
public space, the more degraded the citizen, because public
space is not only about quality of life but also the expression
of citizenship”.57 Another local expert, in Santo Domingo,
underscored the same point perhaps more incisively:
“Citizens need to gain positive empowerment, to defend
space enclaves where public life is still alive and where laws
and norms for doing so are available.”58

policy

As cities work
on the five
dimensions of prosperity,
there also occurs a
progressive expansion in
the size of the commons.
More amenities are brought
into collective use and more
access is provided, enabling
larger numbers of urban
residents to use and enjoy
shared spaces, services and
facilities.

Revisiting Urban Codes for shared
Prosperity
Rules and regulations constitute a key instrument in urban
management and development. That is why appropriate
institutions are required to ensure implementation
and enforcement as well as awareness building and
mobilization. Rules and regulations have significant roles
to play, as they generally steer and circumscribe planning
and construction. One author has even gone so far as to
ascribe the ‘shaping and misshaping of American cities’ to
poor planning regulations.59 Indeed, zoning regulations,
building codes, utility standards, deed restrictions and
the many other instruments that shape the urban built
environment, will determine not only the pattern, use
and form of spaces and structures, but will also strongly
influence the quality of life in cities.
The review of regulatory frameworks is of particular
importance for those cities in the developing world that
have long operated with
externally derived standards
and codes, who, must
Laws,
also tend to effective
rules and
institutions must
implementation and
be kept alert, not
enforcement capacities.
inert, to current and
Revisiting the codes
evolving needs and
developed for formerly
risks if a city’s whole
colonial or apartheid cities
human potential is
like Nairobi, Dar es Salaam
to be harnessed,
not repressed –
or Johannesburg in a bid
empowering the whole
to achieve an inclusive
population with “basic
urban form is a challenging
capabilities” or “generic
endeavour. This calls not
conditions of agency”
only major for institutional
at the service of
restructuring, but also a
today’s and tomorrow’s
prosperity.
revision of zoning and

fact

policy

fact

118

Innovating to Support the Transition to the City of the 21st Century

building codes to support urban reforms, not to mention
squatter regulation and slum upgrading. On top of that,
cities today must provide accommodative measures, allowing
for progressive construction, smaller plot sizes and multiple
variants of land tenure. Similarly, utility standards must be
adjusted, and new development financing channels devised,
in the face of inequity and exclusion.

fact

As some cities have found out, shared prosperity involves
a serious review of regulatory frameworks.

policy

As some cities have come to realise, shared and
integrated prosperity is a socio-political project,
involving a commitment by all stakeholders and entailing a
re-examination of laws, regulations, and the corresponding
institutional framework.

Institutional Transformation
Some of the real-life experiences outlined in this chapter
suggest that when it comes to structuring the urban power
functions that form the hub of the ‘prosperity wheel’, it
is for every city to make its own choices. Indeed, many
choices have already been made; but common to all is the
adaptation and consolidation of key institutions which
harness the energy and engagement of all stakeholders in
a city. Major stakeholders, such as business, professionals,
civic organisations, besides neighbourhood associations,
must be provided with an institutional avenue for effective
engagement with urban prosperity – how it is generated
and how it is shared. Such engagement transcends the
traditional participatory practices of forums and consultative

mechanisms; it turns socioeconomic conditions into levers
of enhanced prosperity, with every household and business
considered as an asset to be safeguarded, optimized and
promoted – empowered – for the benefit of all
An exemplary case of institutional innovation for shared
prosperity is that of Medellín. During the past decade,
the Colombian city’s prosperity has experienced major
turnaround, as it endeavoured to overcome the combined
challenges of poverty, inequality, exclusion and informality,
besides rampant violence, through a whole new social

Box 3.2.4
Law, institutions and the public interest
As the state evolved into “the geometric focal point of all
perspectives” and a principle of public order, it established a
unified space – imposing spatial over social, genealogical or other
types of proximity. In the process, public authority has gained
more recognition from the various segments of society, which
further consolidates both its privileged position and its efficiency.
As a result, the notion of “public interest” can pave the way for
consensus and mobilization; at any rate, it sheds light on reality
and becomes a shared evaluation criterion.

Urban space is shaped by laws, rules and institutions (or lack
thereof) in response to the needs and requirements of varying
numbers of stakeholders. In this sense, the prosperity of a city
is also a legal and institutional construct, and the past has some
lessons for early 21st century central and municipal governments.
Major legal systems around the world have long recognised that
far from being just an abstract norm, law and institutions have the
capacity to shape up a variety of interests across ethnic, cultural
and other divides. They do so within the spatial confines of their
jurisdictions, and with a long-term view.61

Historically, in China as in Europe, the city has served as the
privileged locus of the emergence of the state and the public
interest as we know them today. In 11th century Western
Europe63, it fell to municipal authorities to control violence as
well as economic and political relations. Although the poor were
effectively left out of some functions, they were equal members
of the assemblies in charge of endorsing municipal officials and
laws (including those on economic activities). Moreover, purchase,
sale and mortgaging of land and buildings were open to all. At the
time, the protections and safeguards provided by cities also aimed
at preserving their prosperity from heavy-handed monarchs or
emperors.

This is the background against which the state has historically
emerged as the apex body of an interdependent network of
powerful repositories of different kinds of power – legal, religious,
bureaucratic, economic, etc.62 In this role, the state has gradually
built a monopoly over universality. This went hand in hand with the
constitution of bureaucratic functions independent of particular
interests – family, religion, the economy – with agents that were
mandated to embody the public interest. Along with this came the
constitution of a new, “public” kind of resources that embodied
universality, or at any rate a degree of universality that was superior
to that of previously existing resources. This public realm gradually
stood out against particular interests, and also against private
appropriation of public functions through patronage or nepotism.

119

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

dispensation. Conditions
have been put in place for
civic mobilisation, bringing
together politicians, the
private sector, professionals
and communities, with the
aim of building a future
that benefits everyone. The
collective energy behind
this compact reconstructs
the foundations of
shared prosperity in all
socioeconomic spheres.
In Helsinki, the
Helsinki, a city that
enabling potential
features prominently in the
of legal and regulatory
UN-Habitat City Prosperity
instruments is used to build
Index, has invested in
a dynamic institutional
framework which enhances
human capital, promoted
shared prosperity.
innovation and developed
strong institutions, using a
multi-prong approach to
enhanced prosperity.60
Shared and
Legal and institutional
integrated
transformation for the
prosperity in cities is
sake of prosperity is not
about the reclaiming of a
sense of community and
confined to the cities of the
sustainability through urban
developed world. Despite
power functions.
the formidable challenges
facing them, a number of
Asian and African cities
are taking significant steps, with some already achieving
visibly higher degrees of prosperity. Cities such as Bangalore
and Hyderabad, South Africa’s Gauteng urban region,
Nairobi, Dakar and Dar es Salaam are all engaged in the
pursuit of shared, sustainable prosperity through effective
legal, regulatory and institutional frameworks. Bangalore
clearly demonstrates the challenges of higher prosperity
path against a developing country background; but the city
benefits from strong institutional synergies, with investment

by national, state and local government, including Greater
Bangalore authority. The private-public partnership model
seems to be the driving factor behind the city’s enhanced
prosperity, together with a well-adapted regulatory
framework for Information Technology Parks, an attractive
environment for highly skilled labour, and facilitating the
establishment of training and research institutions.

policy

Shared
prosperity is
not accidental, nor is it
an automatic outcome of
economic growth or market
forces. It is a human,
collective construct which
requires vision, leadership
and a coherent programme
of action.

fact

policy

A pedestrian footbridge at night in the modern city of
Shenzhen, China.
© Fuyu Liu/Shutterstock.com

Endnotes
1	
2	

Oyelaran-Oyeyinka, B. and P.G. Sampath (2010) Latecomer Development: Innovation
and Knowledge for Economic Growth, Routledge, London and New York.

6	

Landry, C. (2000) The Creative City, Earthscan, London.

7	

Ibid.

Kratke, S. (2011) The Creative Capital of Cities: Interactive Knowledge Creation and
The Urbanization Economies of Innovation, Wiley-Blackwell ,Chichester

8	

Landry, C. (2000) op. cit.

9	

‘Urbanization economies’ refer to the advantages gained from a specific urban
location: proximity to markets, available labour force, communications, and auxiliary
business services.

3	

Oyelaran-Oyeyinka, B. and P.G. Sampath (2010) op. cit.

4	

Kratke, S. (2011) op. cit.

5	

Landry, C. (2000) The Creative City, Earthscan, London.

120

Innovating to Support the Transition to the City of the 21st Century

10	 Government of Singapore (2010) Singapore Budget 2010 - Towards an Advanced
Economy: Superior Skills, Quality Jobs, Higher Incomes, http://www.mof.gov.sg/
budget_2010/speech_toc/pd.html.

37	 Buhigas, M. (2012), Efficient Urban Planning and Management, background paper for
‘State of the World Cities Report 2012/13’
38	 Castellanos, G. (2011) City Report on Santo Domingo. Unpublished UN-Habitat
background study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

11	 Centre for Livable Cities (2011) City Report on Singapore, Unpublished UN-Habitat
background study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

39	 A highest percentage of respondents in all regions found that planning and
management is the most important factor, while the majority of respondents in LAC
opined that decentralization of policies and appropriate laws and regulation plays a
more important role.

12	 Belliapa, S.G. (2011) City Report on Bangalore, Unpublished UN-Habitat background
study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”
13	 Vejella, S. (2011) City Report on Hyderabad, Unpublished UN-Habitat background
study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

40	 ONU-HÁBITAT (2012) El estado de las ciudades de América Latina y el Caribe 2012,
ONU-HÁBITAT ,Rio de Janeiro (to be published)

14	 Jin, L. and Y. Liu (2011) City Report on Shenzhen, Unpublished UN-Habitat
background study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

41	 Earth Right Institute (2011), Land Rights and Land Value Capture, http://www.
earthrights.net/docs/long_form_brochure_lrlvc.html; UN-Habitat (2008), Municipal
financing and urban development, UN-Habitat , Nairobi

15	 The city’s GDP rose from 136.024 billion Yuan in 1997 to 789.424 billion Yuan
in 2010. Even during the serious financial crisis of 2008 and 2009, Chongqing
maintained a high growth rate of GDP of 14% [ Liu, Y. and Y. Wang (2011) City Report
on Chongqing, Unpublished UN-Habitat background study for “State of the World’s
Cities Report 2012/2013”]

42	 Mendoza, I. R. (2011) City Report on Panama City, Unpublished UN-Habitat
background study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

16	 Kurtul,P. F. (2011) City Report on Gaziantep, Unpublished UN-Habitat background
study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

43	 The notion of fixed social capital, which encompasses all assets of society that are
not mobile (or soft) but are solid and owned by the public is equivalent to the ‘public
goods’ mentioned in this chapter.

17	 World Bank (2012) World Bank Data:World Development Indicators & Global
Development Finance, Online database last updated July 9 2012, http://data.
worldbank.org

44	 UNIDO (2008) Public Goods for Economic Development, UNIDO, Vienna, http://www.
unido.org/fileadmin/user_media/Publications/documents/Public%20goods%20
for%20economic%20development_sale.pdf

18	 SET-DEV (2011) Technological Responsibility:Guidelines for a shared governance
of the processes of socialisation of scientific research and innovation, within an
interconnected world, http://www.set-dev.eu/images/pdf/setdev-pg2110728?e6227e
3a1ee01ab67932453dd186b586=fe92758461b428418da8873e8a9fc566

45	 The CLEAR Network (2006), Urban Planning and Smart Growth, http://www.clear.
london.ca/Urban_Planning.html
46	 Kimmelman, M. (2012), ‘A City Rises, Along With Its Hopes’, New York Times, May 18,
http://www.nytimes.com/2012/05/20/arts/design/fighting-crime-with-architecturein-medellin-colombia.html?_r=1&pagewanted=all.

19	 Ibid.
20	 Jin, L. and Y. Liu (2011) op. cit.

47	 Sen, A. K., (1999) ‘Democracy as a universal Value’, Journal of Democracy , vol 10
(3), Washington, DC, pp. 3-17

21	 In ten years of reform and development, the total assets of state-owned enterprises
increased from 160 billion Yuan to one trillion Yuan, nearly seven-fold increase [Liu, Y.
and Y. Wang (2011) op. cit.]
UN-Habitat (2010) State of the World’s Cities 2010/2011 : Cities for All: Bridging the
Urban Divide, Earthscan, London

48	 ‘Cities have always been exposed to brutal economic pressures from overseas;
the nation state has always, to a greater or smaller extent, tried to cushion these
pressures.’ [Pierre, J. (2011) The Politics of Urban Governance Palgrave Macmillan,
Basingstoke]

23	 UN-Habitat (2010) ‘Scaling New Heights: New Ideas in Urban Planning’, Urban World,
Vol. 1, Issue, 4, October. Nairobi.

49	 Menski, W. (2006) Comparative Law in a Global Context: The Legal Systems of Asia
and Africa, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge

24	 James, P.A., K. Deiglmeier and D. T. Miller (2008) ‘Rediscovering Social Innovations’,
Stanford Social Innovation Review, http://www.ssireview.org/articles/entry/
rediscovering_social_innovation/

50	 ‘It could well be argued that the growing significance of non-elected actors in
urban politics in many countries only increases the need for political control and
accountability.’ [Pierre, J. (2011) op.cit.]

25	 Castells, M. (1996) The Information Age: Economy, Society and Culture – Volume 1 –
The Rise of the Network Society, Blackwell, Oxford

51	 Pierre, J. (2011) op.cit.

22	

52	 Fernandes, E. and M.M.M. Copello (2009) ‘Law and Land Policy in Latin America:
Shifting Paradigms and Possibilities for Action’, Land Lines, Lincoln Institute of Land
Policy, Cambridge, MA

26	 James, P.A., K. Deiglmeier and D. T. Miller (2008) op. cit.
27	 Soja, E. W. (2010), Seeking Spatial Justice, University of Minnesota Press,
Minneapolis

53	 Fernandes, E. (2007a)’ Implementing the urban reform agenda in Brazil’, Environment
& Urbanization Vol 19(1), pp. 177–189

28	 Cohen, M.(2012), Reinventing the Future: Designing Urban 3.0, unpublished proposal
for UN-Habitat Habitat 3 Summit.

54	 Fernandes, E. (2007b) “Constructing the `Right to the City’ in Brazil”, Social & Legal
Studies, Vol. 16(2), pp. 201-219;

29	 Clos, J. (2012) Urbanization Challenges of the 21st Century, Unpublished document,
UN-Habitat, Nairobi

55	

UN-Habitat database (2012).

56	 See, for instance, Gehl, J. (2010) Cities for People, Island Press, Washington DC.

30	 Belliapa, S.G. (2011) City Report on Bangalore. Unpublished UN-Habitat background
study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

57	 Mendoza, I. R. (2011) City Report on Panama City, Unpublished UN-Habitat
background study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

31	 Flyvbjerg, B. (1996) ‘The Dark Side of Planning: Rationality and Realrationalität,’ in
Seymour, M., Mazza ,L., and R. Burchell (eds.), Explorations in Planning Theory ,
Center for Urban Policy Research Press, New Brunswick, NJ. pp. 383-394.

58	 Castellanos, G. (2011) City Report on Santo Domingo, Unpublished UN-Habitat
background study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

32	 Viana, I. (2011) City Report on Montevideo, Unpublished UN-Habitat background
study for “State of the World’s Cities Report 2012/2013”

59	 Talen, E. (2012) City Rules: How Regulations Affect Urban Form, Island Press,
Washington DC.

33	 López, E. M. (2011), New Urban Planning: Going Back to Basics, Unpublished
document, UN-Habitat, Nairobi

60	 Karvinen, M. (2005) Innovation and creativity strategies in Helsinki Metropolitan Area
– reinvention of regional governance, proceedings of the 41st ISoCaRP Congress
2005, Bilbao, Spain

34	 Kothari, M. and S. Chaudhry (2009), Taking the right to the city forward: Obstacles
and promise, background paper for ‘State of the World Cities Report 2010/11’

61	 Berman, Harold. J. (1983) Law and Revolution: The formation of the Western Legal
Tradition, vol. 1, Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press; Menski (2006) op.cit.

35	 Briney, A. (2009) New Urbanism is Taking Planning to a New Level, http://geography.
about.com/od/urbaneconomicgeography/a/newurbanism.htm

62	 Bourdieu, P. (2012) Sur l’Etat – Cours au Collège de France 1989-1992, Raisons
d’Agir/Seuil, Paris

36	 Clos, J. (2012) op.cit. This ‘global standardization process’ is also referred by
professionals like David Mangin (Mangin, D. (2004) La Ville franchisée: Formes et
structures de la ville contemporaine, Editions de la Villette, Paris

63	 Berman (1983) op. cit.; Sassen, S. (2006) Territory, Authority, Rights: From Medieval
to Global Assemblages, Princeton University Press, Princeton

121

Statistical
Annex

GENERAL DISCLAIMER
The designations employed and presentation of the data in the Statistical Annex do not imply
the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of the Secretariat of the United Nations
concerning the legal status of any country, city or area of its authorities, or concerning the
delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries.

Table 1: City Prosperity Index and components
Table 2: Proportion of urban population living in slums and urban slum population, by country 1990-2009
Table 3: U
 rban population, proportion of urban population living in slum area and urban slum population, by region,
1990-2012
Table 4: C
 ity population and city population growth rate of urban agglomerations with 750,000 Inhabitants or More in 2009,
by Country, 1950-2025 (thousands)
Table 5: Urban Population and Urbanization by Country, 1990-2030

Table 1
City Prosperity Index and components
City
Prosperity
Index (CPI)
with 5
Dimensions

City
Prosperity
Index (CPI)
with 4
Dimensions*

Productivity
Index

Quality of
life Index

Infrastructure Enivronment
Index
Index

Equity
Index

Country

City

Austria

Vienna

0.925

0.936

0.939

0.882

0.996

0.932

0.883

United States

New York

0.825

0.934

0.940

0.866

0.994

0.941

0.502

Canada

Toronto

0.890

0.934

0.874

0.907

0.997

0.963

0.733

United Kingdom

London

0.904

0.934

0.923

0.898

0.997

0.920

0.793

Sweden

Stockholm

0.898

0.934

0.896

0.925

0.995

0.921

0.767

Finland

Helsinki

0.924

0.933

0.890

0.905

0.997

0.944

0.890

Ireland

Dublin

0.913

0.929

0.901

0.867

0.996

0.958

0.850

Norway

Oslo

0.924

0.929

0.870

0.914

0.997

0.939

0.903

France

Paris

0.897

0.927

0.895

0.925

0.996

0.895

0.788

Japan

Tokyo

0.905

0.925

0.850

0.931

0.989

0.936

0.828

Australia

Melbourne

0.903

0.925

0.867

0.875

0.996

0.967

0.820

New Zealand

Auckland

0.862

0.922

0.854

0.889

0.994

0.958

0.657

Netherlands

Amsterdam

0.895

0.915

0.866

0.872

0.995

0.933

0.818

Switzerland

Zurich

0.884

0.914

0.868

0.858

0.997

0.941

0.772

Denmark

Copenhagen

0.913

0.911

0.855

0.871

0.997

0.928

0.922

Belgium

Brussels

0.883

0.910

0.862

0.864

0.997

0.922

0.783

Spain

Barcelona

0.876

0.909

0.829

0.912

0.995

0.908

0.755

Italy

Milan

0.870

0.908

0.868

0.895

0.997

0.876

0.733

Poland

Warsaw

0.883

0.901

0.846

0.864

0.990

0.911

0.817

Portugal

Lisbon

0.853

0.899

0.827

0.867

0.995

0.916

0.692

Hungary

Budapest

0.881

0.894

0.808

0.867

0.990

0.921

0.833

Greece

Athens

0.862

0.889

0.800

0.885

0.996

0.884

0.762

Czech Republic

Prague

0.871

0.882

0.855

0.771

0.992

0.926

0.827

Republic of Korea

Seoul

0.861

0.876

0.801

0.903

0.989

0.822

0.807

Russia

Moscow

0.793

0.870

0.806

0.813

0.960

0.908

0.550

Brazil

São Paulo

0.757

0.836

0.742

0.803

0.918

0.894

0.507

122

Statistical Annex

Table 1
City Prosperity Index and components
City
Prosperity
Index (CPI)
with 5
Dimensions

City
Prosperity
Index (CPI)
with 4
Dimensions*

Productivity
Index

Quality of
life Index

Infrastructure Enivronment
Index
Index

Equity
Index

Country

City

Kazakhstan

Almaty

0.830

0.833

0.751

0.822

0.872

0.897

0.818

China

Shanghai

0.826

0.832

0.671

0.836

0.900

0.950

0.800

Romania

Bucharest

0.836

0.821

0.707

0.767

0.968

0.867

0.900

Mexico

Mexico City

0.709

0.816

0.743

0.764

0.900

0.866

0.405

Turkey

Ankara

0.780

0.806

0.699

0.802

0.842

0.891

0.683

Jordan

Amman

0.771

0.796

0.697

0.790

0.887

0.824

0.680

Thailand

Bangkok

0.733

0.794

0.719

0.747

0.871

0.850

0.533

Ukraine

Kyïv

0.798

0.781

0.579

0.757

0.968

0.874

0.873

Viet Nam

Hà Noi

0.756

0.776

0.712

0.761

0.912

0.733

0.683

Armenia

Yerevan

0.779

0.769

0.635

0.850

0.870

0.745

0.817

China

Beijing

0.799

0.762

0.667

0.836

0.911

0.663

0.967

South Africa

Cape Town

0.590

0.758

0.628

0.645

0.933

0.875

0.217

Indonesia

Jakarta

0.769

0.743

0.636

0.733

0.741

0.881

0.885

South Africa

Johannesburg

0.479

0.742

0.654

0.645

0.880

0.816

0.083

Philippines

Manila

0.723

0.737

0.676

0.647

0.775

0.868

0.669

Egypt

Cairo

0.722

0.730

0.679

0.743

0.916

0.616

0.692

Morocco

Casablanca

0.647

0.700

0.634

0.513

0.827

0.891

0.472

Honduras

Tegucigalapa

0.652

0.694

0.541

0.729

0.709

0.829

0.510

Moldova

Chisinau

0.698

0.693

0.340

0.850

0.895

0.894

0.717

India

Mumbai

0.694

0.688

0.645

0.739

0.745

0.632

0.715

Kenya

Nairobi

0.593

0.673

0.481

0.559

0.860

0.889

0.357

Cambodia

Phnom Penh

0.677

0.666

0.544

0.613

0.728

0.809

0.722

Mongolia

Ulaanbaatar

0.675

0.664

0.493

0.777

0.632

0.804

0.722

Guatemala

Guatemala City

0.614

0.646

0.440

0.556

0.823

0.866

0.502

Cameroon

Yaoundé

0.618

0.623

0.492

0.555

0.666

0.827

0.600

India

New Delhi

0.635

0.617

0.596

0.690

0.786

0.448

0.712

Côte d’Ivoire

Abidjan

0.578

0.599

0.452

0.440

0.767

0.842

0.500

Nepal

Kathmundu

0.598

0.594

0.385

0.621

0.740

0.704

0.617

Bangladesh

Dhaka

0.633

0.593

0.545

0.539

0.673

0.627

0.817

Uganda

Kampala

0.581

0.590

0.512

0.486

0.507

0.956

0.550

Nigeria

Lagos

0.496

0.582

0.475

0.634

0.576

0.659

0.262

Ghana

Accra

0.560

0.576

0.347

0.592

0.737

0.728

0.500

Bolivia

La Paz

0.551

0.565

0.363

0.621

0.745

0.606

0.502

Ethiopia

Addis Ababa

0.501

0.564

0.503

0.534

0.521

0.724

0.313

Senegal

Dakar

0.581

0.552

0.510

0.384

0.794

0.596

0.712

Zimbabwe

Harare

0.493

0.542

0.246

0.451

0.899

0.864

0.338

United Republic of Tanzania

Dar es Salaam

0.571

0.530

0.427

0.371

0.607

0.822

0.767

Zambia

Lusaka

0.434

0.507

0.316

0.463

0.590

0.766

0.233

Niger

Niamey

0.482

0.456

0.402

0.426

0.485

0.521

0.602

Mali

Bamako

0.491

0.452

0.401

0.416

0.544

0.460

0.683

Madagascar

Antananarivo

0.465

0.446

0.171

0.558

0.511

0.812

0.552

Guinea

Conakry

0.449

0.416

0.133

0.461

0.607

0.809

0.612

Liberia

Monrovia

0.313

0.285

0.048

0.381

0.411

0.886

0.457

* The CPI with 4 dimensions does not include the equity index
Source: United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat), Global Urban Indicators Database 2012.

123

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

Table 2
Proportion of urban population living in slums and urban slum population, by country 1990-2009

Major area, region,
country or area

Proprotion of urban population living in slum areaa
1990

1995

2000

2005

2007

2009

86.5

76.2

65.8

Benin

79.3

76.8

74.3

71.8

70.8

69.8

Burkina Faso

78.8

72.4

65.9

Urban Slum Population at Mid-Year by Major Area,
Region and Country (thousands)
1990

1995

2000

2005

2007

2009

Africa
Angola

Burundi

59.5

59.5

64.3

64.3

7,756

7,466

7,019

1,311

1,616

1,897

2,260

2,423

2,595

960

1,109

1,374

1,762

2,029

452

508

Cameroon

50.8

49.6

48.4

47.4

46.6

46.1

2,532

3,160

3,826

4,585

4,870

5,188

Central African Republic

87.5

89.7

91.9

94.1

95.0

95.9

943

1,113

1,296

1,470

1,551

1,642

89.3

1,257

1,507

1,844

2,312

2,509

2,714

80

91

101

119

124

1,098

1,119

1,134

2,674

3,366

4,158

5,066

5,496

5,979

14,491

14,375

14,079

5,677

5,903

6,143

10,067

10,427

Chad

98.9

96.4

93.9

91.3

90.3

Comoros

65.4

65.4

65.4

68.9

68.9

53.4

51.7

49.9

53.4

54.3

55.3

56.2

56.6

57.0

76.4

69.1

61.7

17.1

17.1

17.1

Congo
Côte d’Ivoire
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Egypt

50.2

39.2

28.1

Equatorial Guinea
Ethiopia

95.5

95.5

88.6

Gabon

10,704

8,447

81.8

157
79.1

76.4

5,819

7,562

8,653

38.7

Gambia
Ghana

65.5

58.8

52.1

Guinea

80.4

68.8

57.3

Guinea-Bissau
Kenya

12,607

66.3

443

45.4

34.8

45.4

42.8

45.7

45.7

40.1

373

313

3,571

4,070

4,473

4,755

4,817

1,385

1,517

1,490

1,390

1,489

83.1
54.9

54.8

54.8

Lesotho

9,729

4,848

362

54.8

54.8

54.7

35.1

44.4

53.7

Liberia

2,343

2,859

3,400

4,069

4,396

163

223

68.3

4,762
290
1,282

Madagascar

93.0

88.6

84.1

80.6

78.0

76.2

2,470

2,997

3,486

4,046

4,225

4,460

Malawi

66.4

66.4

66.4

66.4

67.7

68.9

725

893

1,192

1,572

1,786

2,027

Mali

94.2

84.8

75.4

65.9

65.9

65.9

1,902

2,066

2,247

2,496

2,743

3,009

Morocco

37.4

35.2

24.2

13.1

13.1

13.1

4,490

4,904

3,713

2,205

2,308

2,416

Mozambique

75.6

76.9

78.2

79.5

80.0

80.5

2,161

3,216

4,381

5,714

6,311

6,940

Namibia

34.4

34.1

33.9

33.9

33.6

33.5

135

165

200

239

254

272

Niger

83.6

83.1

82.6

82.1

81.9

81.7

1,016

1,219

1,475

1,787

1,944

2,121

Nigeria

77.3

73.5

69.6

65.8

64.2

62.7

26,549

31,538

36,951

42,783

45,195

47,612

Rwanda

96.0

87.9

79.7

71.6

68.3

65.1

372

397

874

1,129

1,165

1,208

Senegal

70.6

59.8

48.9

43.3

41.1

38.8

2,071

2,051

1,955

2,010

2,030

2,048

73.5

73.6

73.6

2,161

2,316

2,486

28.7

23.0

23.0

8,179

6,814

7,055

Sierra Leone

97.0

Somalia
South Africa

46.2

39.7

33.2

Togo

1,824
8,834

8,950

8,475

62.1

1,486

Uganda

75.0

75.0

75.0

66.7

63.4

60.1

1,473

1,833

2,214

2,403

2,487

2,578

United Republic of Tanzania

77.4

73.7

70.1

66.4

65.0

63.5

3,719

4,539

5,335

6,271

6,713

7,200

Zambia

57.0

57.1

57.2

57.2

57.3

57.3

1,778

1,930

2,083

2,350

2,483

2,633

4.0

3.7

3.3

17.9

21.0

24.1

121

138

140

801

963

1,141

29.1

13,1670

151,437 169,102 183,544 182,934

180,560

Zimbabwe

Asia
China

43.6

40.5

37.3

32.9

31.0

Mongolia

68.5

66.7

64.9

57.9

57.9

Bangladesh

87.3

84.7

77.8

70.8

66.2

124

61.6

866

860

882

878

915

19,999

23,535

25,819

27,831

27,770

27,542

Statistical Annex

Table 2
Proportion of urban population living in slums and urban slum population, by country 1990-2009

Major area, region,
country or area

Proprotion of urban population living in slum areaa
1990

1995

2000

2005

2007

2009

Urban Slum Population at Mid-Year by Major Area,
Region and Country (thousands)
1990

1995

2000

2005

2007

India

54.9

48.2

41.5

34.8

32.1

29.4

121,022

Nepal

70.6

67.3

64.0

60.7

59.4

58.1

1,194

1,585

2,100

2,630

2,850

3,075

Pakistan

51.0

49.8

48.7

47.5

47.0

46.6

18,054

20,688

23,890

27,158

28,529

29,965

22,456

23,255

17,972

18,134

18,302

5,539

5,841

6,146

Cambodia
Indonesia

78.9
50.8

42.6

34.4

Lao People’s Democratic Republic

26.3

23.0

23.0

50.8

47.2

Thailand
Viet Nam

60.5

54.6

48.8

29,017

29,691

Iraq

16.9

16.9

16.9

6,701

43.7

42.3

40.9

26.0

26.5

27.0

41.3

38.3

35.2

8,118

8,852

9,395

9,491

9,396

9,224

2,131

2,439

2,828

9,974

10,361

10,759

689

824

971

52.8

52.8

52.8

15.8

17.7

19.6

Lebanon

53.1

Saudi Arabia

18.0

Syrian Arab Republic

10.5
23.4

20.7

17.9

Yemen

24,777
1,277

Jordan

Turkey

27,559

45.6
54.3

104,679

2,052

79.3

Myanmar
Philippines

122,231 119,698 112,913 109,102

2009

16,479

17,158

17,613

1,877
3,442
22.5

15.5

14.1

67.2

76.8

1,080
13.0

7,773

7,859

7,714

2,516

7,422

7,022

4,088

5,140

9,274

8,521

6,728

Latin America and the Caribbean
Argentina

30.5

31.7

32.9

26.2

Belize

23.5

20.8

8,622

9,772

10,953

18.7

7,737

28

Bolivia

62.2

58.2

54.3

50.4

48.8

47.3

2,305

2,590

2,794

2,972

3,030

3,080

Brazil

36.7

34.1

31.5

29.0

28.0

26.9

40,527

42,789

44,604

45,428

45,309

44,947

5,306

4,899

1,067

1,024

2,572

2,619

2,660

73

73

72

2,908

3,230

3,557

Chile
Colombia

9.0
31.2

26.8

22.3

Costa Rica
Dominican Republic

17.9

1,285
16.1

14.3

7,077

6,884

6,404

10.9
27.9

24.4

21.0

17.6

5,670
291

16.2

14.8

1,135

1,143

1,145

1,100

Ecuador

21.5

1,786

El Salvador

28.9

1,079

French Guiana

10.5

16

Grenada

6.0

2

Guadeloupe

5.4

24

Guatemala

58.6

53.3

48.1

Guyana
Haiti

93.4

93.4

93.4

42.9

40.8

38.7

33.7

33.5

33.2

70.1

70.1

70.1

Honduras

34.9

Jamaica

60.5

2,146
1,893

2,301
2,393

2,438
2,876

1,170
840

Mexico

23.1

21.5

19.9

14.4

14.4

13,760

14,457

14,800

11,574

11,906

Nicaragua

89.1

74.5

60.0

45.5

45.5

1,929

1,860

1,676

1,388

1,437

Panama

23.0

Paraguay
Peru
Saint Lucia
Suriname

526

17.6
66.4

56.3

46.2

36.1

608
36.1

11.9

9,964

9,566

8,776

7,540
5

3.9

13

Trinidad and Tobago

24.7

40

Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)

32.0

7,861

Notes: (a) Computed from country household data using the four components of slum (improved water, improwed sanitation, durable housing and sufficient living area.
Source: United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat), Global Urban Indicators Database 2012.

125

7,801

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

Table 3
Urban population, proportion of urban population living in slum area and urban slum population, by region, 1990-2012
Urban Population at Mid-Year by Major Area, Region (thousands)a
Major region or area

1990

1995

2000

2005

2007

2010

2012

1,406,473

1,658,909

1,930,248

2,228,145

2,341,589

2,514,583

2,634,197

58,552

66,491

73,996

82,209

85,843

91,590

95,602

Sub-Saharan Africa

146,640

181,532

220,535

266,848

287,548

321,300

345,564

Latin America and the Caribbean

311,042

352,267

393,420

432,646

447,430

468,757

482,496

Eastern Asia

352,808

429,924

512,043

619,535

652,715

699,813

731,647

Southern Asia

317,857

369,356

424,294

481,719

506,248

545,479

573,698

South-eastern Asia

138,996

165,445

197,360

220,814

230,851

246,701

257,677

79,005

92,146

106,691

122,294

128,796

138,654

145,126

1,572

1,748

1,908

2,080

2,158

2,289

2,387

Developing Regions
Northern Africa

Western Asia
Oceania

Proportion of urban population (per cent)
Major region or area

1990

1995

2000

2005

2007

2010

2012

Developing Regions

34.5

37.2

39.9

42.7

43.7

45.0

45.9

Northern Africa

48.5

50.0

51.2

52.4

53.0

54.0

54.6

Sub-Saharan Africa

28.3

30.6

32.7

34.9

35.8

37.2

38.2

Latin America and the Caribbean

70.3

73.0

75.5

77.7

78.5

79.6

80.3

Eastern Asia

29.1

33.4

38.0

44.5

46.3

48.7

50.3

Southern Asia

26.5

27.7

29.0

30.2

30.8

31.7

32.4

South-eastern Asia

31.6

34.5

38.2

39.9

40.6

41.8

42.7

Western Asia

60.5

62.1

63.7

65.2

65.7

66.6

67.1

Oceaniac

24.4

24.1

23.5

23.0

22.9

22.8

22.9

Notes: (a) United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs Population Division - World Urbanization Prospects: The 2009 Revision
(b) Population living in household that lack either improved water, improved sanitation, sufficient living area (more than three persons per room), or durable housing
(c) Trends data are not available for Oceania. A constant figure does not mean there is no change
Source: United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat), Global Urban Indicators Database 2012.

126

Statistical Annex

Urban Slum Population at Mid-Year by Region (thousands)b
Major region or area

1990

1995

2000

2005

2007

2010

2012

650,444

711,832

759,915

793,723

803,280

819,969

862,569

20,126

18,798

15,054

10,984

11,463

12,226

12,762

Sub-Saharan Africa

102,641

122,635

143,255

168,005

179,538

198,168

213,134

Latin America and the Caribbean

104,794

110,871

114,993

110,129

110,412

110,194

113,424

Eastern Asia

154,175

174,363

191,563

204,253

202,809

197,529

206,515

Southern Asia

181,667

190,758

194,364

192,842

192,325

190,647

200,510

South-eastern Asia

68,852

74,049

78,246

75,443

73,744

76,540

79,945

Western Asia

17,810

19,936

21,980

31,565

32,470

34,112

35,704

379

421

460

501

520

552

575

Developing Regions
Northern Africa

Oceania

Proportion of urban population living in slum (per cent)
Major region or area

1990

1995

2000

2005

2007

2010

2012

Developing Regions

46.2

42.9

39.4

35.6

34.3

32.6

32.7

Northern Africa

34.4

28.3

20.3

13.4

13.4

13.3

13.3

Sub-Saharan Africa

70.0

67.6

65.0

63.0

62.4

61.7

61.7

Latin America and the Caribbean

33.7

31.5

29.2

25.5

24.7

23.5

23.5

Eastern Asia

43.7

40.6

37.4

33.0

31.1

28.2

28.2

Southern Asia

57.2

51.6

45.8

40.0

38.0

35.0

35.0

South-eastern Asia

49.5

44.8

39.6

34.2

31.9

31.0

31.0

Western Asia

22.5

21.6

20.6

25.8

25.2

24.6

24.6

Oceaniac

24.1

24.1

24.1

24.1

24.1

24.1

24.1

Notes: (a) United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs Population Division - World Urbanization Prospects: The 2009 Revision
(b) Population living in household that lack either improved water, improved sanitation, sufficient living area (more than three persons per room), or durable housing
(c) Trends data are not available for Oceania. A constant figure does not mean there is no change
Source: United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat), Global Urban Indicators Database 2012.

127

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

Table 4
City population and city population growth rate of urban agglomerations with 750,000 Inhabitants or More in 2009,
by Country, 1950-2025 (thousands)
City Population of
Urban Agglomerations (’000)
Country/City

City Population Growth Rate of
Urban Agglomerations (%)

1990

1995

2000

2005

2010

2015

2020

2025

19901995

19952000

20002005

20052010

20102015

20152020

20202025

1,282

1,616

1,963

2,994

3,731

4,616

5,665

6,888

4.63

3.90

8.44

4.41

4.26

4.09

3.91

1,815

2,023

2,254

2,512

2,800

3,099

3,371

3,595

2.17

2.17

2.17

2.17

2.03

1.68

1.29

647

675

705

736

770

827

902

970

0.86

0.86

0.86

0.90

1.43

1.73

1.47

Afghanistan
Kabul

Algeria
El Djazaïr (Algiers)
Wahran (Oran)

Angola
Huambo
Luanda

326

444

578

775

1,034

1,305

1,551

1,789

6.17

5.25

5.87

5.78

4.64

3.46

2.85

1,568

1,953

2,591

3,533

4,772

6,013

7,080

8,077

4.39

5.66

6.20

6.01

4.62

3.27

2.63

Argentina
Buenos Aires
Córdoba
Mendoza
Rosario
San Miguel de Tucumán

10,513 11,154 11,847 12,551 13,074 13,401 13,606 13,708
1,200

1,275

1,348

1,423

1,493

1,552

1,601

1,638

1.18

1.21

1.15

0.82

0.49

0.30

0.15

1.21

1.11

1.09

0.96

0.78

0.61

0.46

759

802

838

876

917

956

990

1,016

1.11

0.88

0.88

0.91

0.84

0.68

0.53

1,084

1,121

1,152

1,186

1,231

1,280

1,322

1,354

0.68

0.55

0.58

0.75

0.78

0.64

0.48

611

666

722

781

831

868

899

924

1.71

1.63

1.58

1.23

0.89

0.70

0.54

1,175

1,142

1,111

1,104

1,112

1,120

1,132

1,143

-0.55

-0.55

-0.14

0.14

0.15

0.22

0.18

Armenia
Yerevan

Australia
Adelaide

1,046

1,074

1,102

1,133

1,168

1,214

1,263

1,307

0.53

0.51

0.55

0.61

0.78

0.79

0.68

Brisbane

1,329

1,471

1,603

1,780

1,970

2,096

2,178

2,245

2.04

1.71

2.10

2.03

1.24

0.76

0.61

Melbourne

3,117

3,257

3,433

3,641

3,853

4,022

4,152

4,261

0.88

1.05

1.17

1.13

0.86

0.64

0.51

Perth

1,160

1,273

1,373

1,484

1,599

1,687

1,753

1,810

1.87

1.51

1.56

1.49

1.07

0.77

0.64

Sydney

3,632

3,839

4,078

4,260

4,429

4,592

4,733

4,852

1.11

1.21

0.87

0.78

0.72

0.61

0.50

Wien (Vienna)

1,539

1,544

1,549

1,642

1,706

1,753

1,779

1,801

0.06

0.07

1.17

0.76

0.55

0.30

0.25

1,733

1,766

1,806

1,867

1,972

2,082

2,190

2,291

0.37

0.45

0.67

1.09

1.08

1.01

0.90

3,308

4,180

4,962

5,680

6,447

Azerbaijan
Baku

Bangladesh
Chittagong

2,023

2,578

7,265

4.85

4.99

4.68

3.43

2.70

2.53

2.39

Dhaka

6,621

8,332 10,285 12,555 14,648 16,623 18,721 20,936

4.60

4.21

3.99

3.08

2.53

2.38

2.24

Khulna

985

1,133

1,285

1,464

1,682

1,933

2,211

2,511

2.79

2.53

2.60

2.79

2.78

2.69

2.54

Rajshahi

521

606

678

764

878

1,013

1,164

1,328

3.02

2.27

2.39

2.77

2.86

2.78

2.63

1,607

1,649

1,700

1,775

1,852

1,905

1,917

1,917

0.52

0.61

0.85

0.86

0.56

0.12

0.01

Belarus
Minsk

Belgium
Antwerpen
Bruxelles-Brussel

893

906

925

945

965

979

984

985

0.28

0.43

0.43

0.42

0.28

0.10

0.02

1,680

1,715

1,776

1,840

1,904

1,941

1,948

1,948

0.41

0.70

0.70

0.69

0.39

0.07

0.00

504

577

642

720

844

1,016

1,217

1,445

2.73

2.13

2.28

3.19

3.69

3.62

3.44

1,062

1,267

1,390

1,524

1,673

1,840

2,005

2,156

3.53

1.85

1.85

1.87

1.90

1.72

1.45

616

833

1,054

1,325

1,649

1,916

2,103

2,261

6.04

4.69

4.59

4.37

3.01

1.86

1.45

Benin
Cotonou

Bolivia
La Paz
Santa Cruz

128

Statistical Annex

Table 4
City population and city population growth rate of urban agglomerations with 750,000 Inhabitants or More in 2009,
by Country, 1950-2025 (thousands)
City Population of
Urban Agglomerations (’000)
Country/City

1990

1995

2000

2005

2010

2015

City Population Growth Rate of
Urban Agglomerations (%)
2020

2025

19901995

19952000

20002005

20052010

20102015

20152020

20202025

Brazil
Aracaju
Baixada Santista

453

527

606

691

782

849

883

902

2.99

2.83

2.60

2.49

1.63

0.79

0.42

1,184

1,319

1,468

1,638

1,819

1,949

2,014

2,045

2.15

2.14

2.18

2.10

1.39

0.66

0.30

Belém

1,129

1,393

1,748

1,963

2,191

2,351

2,427

2,460

4.20

4.54

2.32

2.19

1.41

0.64

0.27

Belo Horizonte

3,548

4,093

4,659

5,237

5,852

6,260

6,420

6,463

2.86

2.59

2.34

2.22

1.35

0.50

0.13

Brasília

1,863

2,257

2,746

3,292

3,905

4,296

4,433

4,474

3.84

3.92

3.62

3.42

1.91

0.63

0.19

Campinas

1,693

1,975

2,264

2,533

2,818

3,018

3,109

3,146

3.08

2.74

2.24

2.14

1.37

0.60

0.24

510

606

686

728

772

813

843

861

3.43

2.49

1.18

1.16

1.04

0.72

0.42

1,829

2,138

2,494

2,951

3,462

3,791

3,913

3,953

3.12

3.07

3.37

3.19

1.82

0.63

0.20

503

609

734

882

1,049

1,162

1,210

1,233

3.85

3.72

3.67

3.48

2.04

0.81

0.37

Fortaleza

2,226

2,554

2,875

3,280

3,719

4,011

4,130

4,170

2.75

2.37

2.63

2.51

1.51

0.58

0.20

Goiânia

1,132

1,366

1,635

1,880

2,146

2,327

2,405

2,439

3.75

3.60

2.80

2.65

1.62

0.66

0.27

672

844

1,066

1,173

1,283

1,367

1,415

1,440

4.54

4.68

1.90

1.79

1.28

0.68

0.35

1,052

1,221

1,398

1,613

1,848

2,008

2,078

2,109

2.97

2.72

2.85

2.72

1.66

0.69

0.30

652

741

827

918

1,015

1,089

1,129

1,151

2.54

2.21

2.09

2.01

1.39

0.73

0.38

Cuiabá
Curitiba
Florianópolis

Grande São Luís
Grande Vitória
João Pessoa
Londrina

491

554

613

709

814

889

925

944

2.39

2.04

2.89

2.78

1.75

0.80

0.41

Maceió

660

798

952

1,068

1,192

1,282

1,329

1,353

3.77

3.55

2.30

2.19

1.46

0.72

0.36

Manaus

955

1,159

1,392

1,577

1,775

1,913

1,979

2,009

3.87

3.68

2.49

2.36

1.50

0.67

0.30

Natal

692

800

910

1,099

1,316

1,460

1,519

1,545

2.89

2.58

3.79

3.60

2.08

0.78

0.34

603

709

815

936

1,069

1,162

1,207

1,230

3.22

2.78

2.78

2.66

1.67

0.76

0.37

Pôrto Alegre

Norte/Nordeste Catarinense

2,934

3,236

3,505

3,791

4,092

4,316

4,428

4,469

1.96

1.59

1.57

1.53

1.07

0.51

0.18

Recife

2,690

2,958

3,230

3,542

3,871

4,107

4,219

4,259

1.90

1.76

1.84

1.78

1.18

0.54

0.19

Rio de Janeiro

9,595 10,174 10,803 11,368 11,950 12,404 12,617 12,650

1.17

1.20

1.02

1.00

0.75

0.34

0.05

Salvador

2,331

2.53

2.31

2.84

2.71

1.60

0.59

0.19

2,644

2,968

3,422

3,918

4,243

4,370

4,411

1.53

1.39

1.73

1.66

1.00

0.31

0.02

614

706

789

843

900

950

984

1,004

2.77

2.24

1.32

1.30

1.09

0.70

0.40

1,191

1,168

1,128

1,169

1,196

1,211

1,215

1,215

-0.38

-0.70

0.71

0.46

0.25

0.06

0.00

537

667

921

1,328

1,908

2,643

3,457

4,332

4.32

6.45

7.32

7.25

6.52

5.37

4.51

615

836

1,160

1,354

1,562

1,803

2,093

2,427

6.14

6.55

3.10

2.87

2.86

2.99

2.96

Douala

931

1,155

1,432

1,767

2,125

2,478

2,815

3,131

4.30

4.30

4.20

3.69

3.07

2.55

2.13

Yaoundé

754

948

1,192

1,489

1,801

2,103

2,392

2,664

4.59

4.59

4.45

3.80

3.11

2.57

2.15

738

809

953

1,056

1,182

1,262

1,315

1,364

1.84

3.26

2.06

2.27

1.30

0.82

0.73

São Paulo
Teresina

14,776 15,948 17,099 18,647 20,262 21,300 21,628 21,651

Bulgaria
Sofia

Burkina Faso
Ouagadougou

Cambodia
Phnum Pénh (Phnom Penh)

Cameroon

Canada
Calgary
Edmonton
Montréal
Ottawa-Gatineau

831

859

924

1,017

1,113

1,178

1,227

1,274

0.67

1.47

1.92

1.80

1.14

0.81

0.74

3,154

3,305

3,471

3,603

3,783

3,925

4,048

4,165

0.94

0.98

0.74

0.98

0.74

0.62

0.57

918

988

1,079

1,119

1,182

1,236

1,285

1,333

1.48

1.74

0.75

1.09

0.89

0.78

0.74

Toronto

3,807

4,197

4,607

5,035

5,449

5,706

5,875

6,029

1.95

1.86

1.78

1.58

0.92

0.59

0.52

Vancouver

1,559

1,789

1,959

2,093

2,220

2,318

2,400

2,479

2.75

1.81

1.33

1.18

0.86

0.70

0.65

129

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

Table 4
City population and city population growth rate of urban agglomerations with 750,000 Inhabitants or More in 2009,
by Country, 1950-2025 (thousands)
City Population of
Urban Agglomerations (’000)
Country/City

City Population Growth Rate of
Urban Agglomerations (%)

1990

1995

2000

2005

2010

2015

2020

2025

19901995

19952000

20002005

20052010

20102015

20152020

20202025

477

565

647

732

829

960

1,170

1,445

3.38

2.72

2.48

2.48

2.93

3.96

4.23

4,616

4,964

5,275

5,605

5,952

6,237

6,408

6,503

1.46

1.21

1.21

1.20

0.94

0.54

0.29

733

771

803

837

873

911

946

973

1.02

0.83

0.83

0.83

0.86

0.76

0.57

Chad
N'Djaména

Chile
Santiago
Valparaíso

China
Anshan, Liaoning

1,234

1,307

1,384

1,515

1,663

1,827

1,990

2,120

1.15

1.15

1.81

1.86

1.89

1.71

1.27

Anyang

410

556

753

1,033

1,130

1,220

1,326

1,417

6.07

6.08

6.32

1.79

1.53

1.67

1.32

Baoding

471

645

884

1,042

1,213

1,385

1,524

1,628

6.28

6.29

3.30

3.03

2.67

1.91

1.32

1,826

1,932

2,072

2,243

Baotou

1,044

1,212

1,406

2,388

2.98

2.98

5.23

1.13

1.41

1.58

1.25

Beijing

6,788

8,138

9,757 11,455 12,385 13,335 14,296 15,018

3.63

3.63

3.21

1.56

1.48

1.39

0.99

Bengbu

447

554

687

794

914

1,037

1,142

1,222

4.29

4.29

2.91

2.80

2.53

1.91

1.36

Benxi

759

807

857

911

969

1,044

1,136

1,215

1.22

1.22

1.22

1.22

1.50

1.68

1.35

2,192

2,446

2,730

3,143

3,597

4,046

4,409

4,673

2.19

2.19

2.81

2.70

2.35

1.72

1.16

275

450

735

801

849

913

994

1,064

9.82

9.82

1.73

1.16

1.47

1.69

1.36

1,089

1,504

2,077

2,197

2,415

2,655

2,885

3,066

6.45

6.46

1.12

1.89

1.89

1.66

1.22

730

883

1,068

1,876

2,062

2,267

2,466

2,624

3.81

3.81

11.27

1.89

1.90

1.68

1.24

2,955

3,403

3,919

4,467

4,961

5,441

5,886

6,224

2.82

2.82

2.62

2.10

1.85

1.57

1.12

345

483

677

761

842

931

1,020

1,092

6.74

6.74

2.33

2.02

2.03

1.81

1.37

3,123

4,342

6,039

7,266

9,401

9,850 10,514 11,065

6.59

6.60

3.70

5.15

0.93

1.30

1.02

994 11.44

11.44

2.16

1.50

1.70

1.75

1.38

4.08

1.54

1.54

1.70

1.59

1.17

Changchun
Changde
Changsha, Hunan
Changzhou, Jiangsu
Chengdu
Chifeng
Chongqing
Cixi
Dalian

207

367

650

725

781

850

928

1,884

2,311

2,833

3,060

3,306

3,599

3,896

4,132

4.08

Dandong

543

607

679

736

795

867

947

1,014

2.24

2.24

1.60

1.56

1.73

1.75

1.37

Daqing

757

905

1,082

1,294

1,546

1,797

1,981

2,112

3.58

3.58

3.58

3.56

3.00

1.96

1.28

Datong, Shanxi

917

981

1,049

1,141

1,251

1,375

1,500

1,602

1.34

1.34

1.68

1.84

1.89

1.74

1.31

Dongguan, Guangdong

553

1,416

3,631

4,692

5,347

5,971

6,483

6,852 18.82

18.83

5.13

2.61

2.21

1.64

1.11

Dongying

395

498

628

773

949

1,123

1,246

1,334

4.64

4.64

4.14

4.09

3.37

2.09

1.36

Foshan

429

569

754

4,033

4,969

5,455

5,903

6,242

5.63

5.63

33.53

4.17

1.86

1.58

1.12

1,289

1,323

1,358

1,368

1,378

1,434

1,544

1,647

0.52

0.52

0.16

0.15

0.79

1.49

1.29

Fuxin

Fushun, Liaoning

600

633

667

739

821

912

999

1,070

1.06

1.06

2.05

2.12

2.09

1.83

1.37

Fuyang

142

265

695

804

874

957

1,045

1,119 12.42

19.30

2.91

1.69

1.81

1.76

1.36

3,509

Fuzhou, Fujian
Guangzhou, Guangdong
Guilin

875

1,316

1,978

2,368

2,787

3,201

3,727

8.15

8.15

3.59

3.26

2.77

1.84

1.20

3,072

4,745

7,330

8,165

8,884

9,669 10,409 10,961

8.69

8.70

2.16

1.69

1.69

1.48

1.03

561

652

757

867

991

1,120

1,231

1,317

2.99

2.99

2.71

2.68

2.45

1.89

1.35

Guiyang

1,080

1,417

1,860

2,015

2,154

2,325

2,519

2,679

5.44

5.44

1.60

1.33

1.53

1.60

1.23

Haerbin

2,392

2,860

3,419

3,789

4,251

4,473

4,800

5,080

3.57

3.57

2.06

2.30

1.02

1.41

1.14

331

494

738

1,410

1,586

1,772

1,937

2,065

8.02

8.02

12.96

2.35

2.21

1.78

1.28

Haikou

525

653

811

1,007

1,249

1,488

1,652

1,764

4.33

4.34

4.33

4.32

3.50

2.09

1.32

Hangzhou

Handan

1,476

1,887

2,411

3,516

3,860

4,145

4,470

4,735

4.91

4.91

7.55

1.87

1.42

1.51

1.15

Hefei

1,100

1,298

1,532

2,065

2,404

2,626

2,850

3,029

3.32

3.32

5.97

3.04

1.76

1.64

1.22

Hengyang

504

632

793

936

1,099

1,263

1,393

1,488

4.53

4.53

3.31

3.22

2.79

1.95

1.33

Hohhot

635

798

1,005

1,264

1,589

1,907

2,118

2,258

4.59

4.59

4.59

4.57

3.66

2.09

1.28

Huai'an

330

520

818

914

998

1,095

1,195

1,278

9.06

9.06

2.24

1.76

1.85

1.75

1.34

Huaibei

290

423

617

775

962

1,147

1,275

1,364

7.53

7.53

4.55

4.32

3.52

2.12

1.35

Huainan

724

872

1,049

1,212

1,396

1,583

1,738

1,854

3.71

3.71

2.88

2.82

2.52

1.86

1.30

130

Statistical Annex

Table 4
City population and city population growth rate of urban agglomerations with 750,000 Inhabitants or More in 2009,
by Country, 1950-2025 (thousands)
City Population of
Urban Agglomerations (’000)
Country/City

1990

1995

2000

2005

2010

2015

City Population Growth Rate of
Urban Agglomerations (%)
2020

2025

19901995

19952000

20002005

20052010

20102015

20152020

20202025

Huizhou

205

336

551

1,212

1,384

1,562

1,713

1,828

9.90

9.91

15.77

2.66

2.42

1.84

1.30

Huludao

351

431

529

648

795

940

1,045

1,120

4.09

4.09

4.08

4.07

3.36

2.11

1.38

Jiamusi

469

539

619

711

817

927

1,020

1,092

2.78

2.78

2.78

2.77

2.52

1.92

1.37

Jiangmen

190

314

519

977

1,103

1,236

1,355

1,448 10.02

10.02

12.67

2.42

2.28

1.84

1.33

Jiaozuo

395

500

631

755

900

1,045

1,155

1,236

4.68

4.68

3.59

3.50

2.99

2.01

1.36

Jieyang

176

327

608

732

855

980

1,081

1,158 12.36

12.37

3.73

3.10

2.73

1.96

1.37

Jilin

1,090

1,251

1,435

1,647

1,888

2,135

2,338

2,489

2.75

2.75

2.75

2.74

2.46

1.81

1.25

Jinan, Shandong

1,923

2,134

2,592

2,951

3,237

3,522

3,813

4,044

2.08

3.89

2.59

1.85

1.69

1.59

1.18

Jingzhou

301

479

761

899

1,039

1,183

1,302

1,392

9.25

9.26

3.33

2.91

2.59

1.91

1.34

Jining, Shandong

343

542

856

972

1,077

1,193

1,304

1,394

9.15

9.16

2.53

2.06

2.04

1.79

1.33

98

212

456

636

858

1,080

1,216

1,303 15.38

15.38

6.64

5.99

4.61

2.37

1.37

Jinjiang
Jinzhou

592

675

770

814

857

918

998

1,068

2.63

2.63

1.12

1.02

1.38

1.67

1.36

Jixi, Heilongjiang

650

732

823

927

1,042

1,166

1,278

1,366

2.36

2.36

2.36

2.36

2.24

1.83

1.34

Kaohsiung

1,372

1,431

1,488

1,548

1,611

1,711

1,850

1,971

0.83

0.79

0.79

0.80

1.20

1.56

1.27

Kunming

1,100

1,679

2,561

2,857

3,116

3,405

3,691

3,915

8.45

8.45

2.19

1.73

1.78

1.61

1.18

Lanzhou

1,290

1,561

1,890

2,085

2,285

2,507

2,724

2,896

3.82

3.82

1.96

1.83

1.85

1.66

1.23

Lianyungang

344

442

567

732

878

1,002

1,105

1,183

4.99

4.99

5.12

3.63

2.65

1.94

1.36

Linyi, Shandong

260

542

1,130

1,297

1,427

1,571

1,713

1,827 14.67

14.67

2.76

1.91

1.93

1.73

1.29

Liuzhou

637

809

1,027

1,183

1,352

1,527

1,675

1,788

4.78

4.78

2.82

2.68

2.43

1.85

1.30

Lufeng

275

391

556

706

889

1,069

1,192

1,276

7.05

7.05

4.78

4.60

3.70

2.17

1.37

Luoyang

725

938

1,213

1,373

1,539

1,716

1,875

1,999

5.14

5.14

2.48

2.29

2.17

1.78

1.28

Luzhou

273

421

649

751

850

955

1,049

1,123

8.67

8.67

2.90

2.49

2.33

1.88

1.37

1,053 12.69

1.37

Maoming

173

327

617

717

803

896

983

12.70

2.98

2.28

2.20

1.85

Mianyang, Sichuan

289

468

758

883

1,006

1,133

1,244

1,331

9.62

9.62

3.07

2.59

2.39

1.87

1.34

Mudanjiang

479

564

665

724

783

855

933

1,000

3.29

3.29

1.69

1.58

1.75

1.76

1.38

Nanchang

912

1,226

1,648

2,380

2,701

2,978

3,236

3,436

5.92

5.92

7.35

2.53

1.95

1.66

1.20

Nanchong
Nanjing, Jiangsu

279

411

606

705

808

914

1,006

1,078

7.74

7.74

3.05

2.71

2.48

1.91

1.37

2,497

2,944

3,472

3,966

4,519

5,076

5,524

5,845

3.30

3.30

2.66

2.61

2.33

1.69

1.13

Nanning

759

1,118

1,445

1,826

2,096

2,306

2,508

2,669

7.74

5.13

4.68

2.76

1.91

1.68

1.24

Nantong

470

534

607

767

1,423

1,586

1,734

1,850

2.55

2.55

4.70

12.36

2.17

1.78

1.29

Nanyang, Henan

228

392

672

774

867

967

1,060

1,135 10.79

10.80

2.83

2.26

2.18

1.84

1.36

Neijiang

415

533

685

781

883

991

1,088

1,165

5.00

5.00

2.63

2.46

2.31

1.87

1.36

Ningbo

634

909

1,303

1,897

2,217

2,536

2,782

2,959

7.20

7.20

7.51

3.12

2.69

1.85

1.23

Panjin

367

467

593

696

813

932

1,028

1,101

4.79

4.79

3.22

3.10

2.73

1.97

1.37

Pingdingshan, Henan

431

606

852

942

1,024

1,120

1,222

1,307

6.81

6.81

2.01

1.68

1.79

1.74

1.34

20.76

4.71

3.55

3.02

2.02

1.36

3.43

17.48

0.62

1.11

1.58

1.33

Puning

76

214

603

763

911

1,060

1,172

1,255 20.76

Putian

311

370

439

1,052

1,085

1,147

1,241

1,327

1,332

1,882

2,659

3,029

3,323

3,622

3,923

4,159

6.91

6.91

2.61

1.85

1.72

1.59

1.17

358

501

702

800

893

993

1,088

1,165

6.74

6.74

2.61

2.21

2.12

1.82

1.36

Qingdao
Qinhuangdao
Qiqihaer

3.43

1,115

1,218

1,331

1,453

1,588

1,740

1,894

2,019

1.77

1.77

1.76

1.77

1.83

1.70

1.28

Quanzhou

174

356

728

898

1,068

1,238

1,367

1,462 14.34

14.34

4.19

3.46

2.95

1.99

1.34

Rizhao

248

390

613

715

816

922

1,014

1,086

9.03

3.08

2.65

2.44

1.90

1.37

Shanghai
Shantou

7,823 10,171 13,224 15,184 16,575 17,840 19,094 20,017
724

950

1,247

3,375

3,502

3,704

3,983

131

4,222

9.03
5.25

5.25

2.76

1.75

1.47

1.36

0.94

5.43

5.43

19.91

0.74

1.12

1.46

1.16

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

Table 4
City population and city population growth rate of urban agglomerations with 750,000 Inhabitants or More in 2009,
by Country, 1950-2025 (thousands)
City Population of
Urban Agglomerations (’000)
Country/City

1990

1995

2000

2005

2010

City Population Growth Rate of
Urban Agglomerations (%)

2015

2020

2025

19901995

1,066

19952000

20002005

20052010

20102015

20152020

20202025

Shaoguan

237

350

517

766

845

914

995

7.79

7.80

7.86

1.96

1.56

1.71

1.37

Shaoxing

181

332

608

731

853

977

1,077

1,153 12.09

12.09

3.69

3.08

2.71

1.96

1.37

Shenyang

3,651

4,081

4,562

4,788

5,166

5,650

6,108

6,457

2.23

2.23

0.96

1.52

1.79

1.56

1.11

Shenzhen

875

2,304

6,069

7,931

9,005

9,827 10,585 11,146 19.36

19.37

5.35

2.54

1.75

1.49

1.03

1,372

1,621

1,914

2,192

2,487

2,789

3.33

2.71

2.52

2.30

1.75

1.22

Shijiazhuang

3,044

3,235

3.33

Suzhou, Jiangsu

689

952

1,316

1,992

2,398

2,619

2,842

3,021

6.47

6.47

8.29

3.71

1.76

1.64

1.22

Taian, Shandong

367

577

910

1,073

1,239

1,409

1,548

1,653

9.09

9.09

3.30

2.88

2.57

1.89

1.31

Taichung

765

864

978

1,106

1,251

1,403

1,538

1,642

2.45

2.47

2.47

2.46

2.30

1.83

1.31

Tainan

669

697

723

750

777

825

895

959

0.79

0.76

0.71

0.72

1.19

1.64

1.38

Taipei

2,737

2,698

2,630

2,627

2,633

2,725

2,921

3,102

-0.29

-0.51

-0.02

0.04

0.68

1.39

1.20

Taiyuan, Shanxi

1.18

1,637

2,024

2,503

2,819

3,154

3,504

3,812

4,043

4.25

4.25

2.38

2.24

2.11

1.68

Taizhou, Jiangsu

158

290

535

662

795

928

1,028

1,101 12.23

12.24

4.24

3.66

3.10

2.05

1.38

Taizhou, Zhejiang

912

1,042

1,190

1,259

1,338

1,442

1,566

1,671

2.66

1.13

1.21

1.49

1.64

1.30

Tangshan, Hebei

2.66

996

1,177

1,390

1,614

1,870

2,130

2,335

2,487

3.33

3.33

2.99

2.95

2.59

1.85

1.26

Tianjin

4,558

5,513

6,670

7,278

7,884

8,559

9,216

9,713

3.81

3.81

1.75

1.60

1.64

1.48

1.05

Ürümqi (Wulumqi)

1,149

1,399

1,705

2,025

2,398

2,767

3,040

3,231

3.95

3.95

3.43

3.39

2.86

1.88

1.22

634

885

1,235

1,457

1,698

1,941

2,131

2,271

6.67

6.67

3.31

3.06

2.67

1.87

1.27

Wenzhou

Weifang

1,111

1,318

1,565

2,187

2,659

3,119

3,436

3,650

3.43

3.43

6.69

3.90

3.19

1.94

1.21

Wuhan

3,417

4,763

6,638

7,204

7,681

8,253

8,868

9,347

6.64

6.64

1.64

1.28

1.44

1.44

1.05

Wuhu, Anhui

442

529

634

759

908

1,057

1,169

1,252

3.60

3.60

3.60

3.59

3.04

2.02

1.36

Wuxi, Jiangsu

992

1,182

1,409

2,435

2,682

2,951

3,206

3,405

3.51

3.51

10.94

1.93

1.91

1.66

1.20

Xiamen

639

952

1,416

1,765

2,207

2,641

2,926

3,112

7.95

7.95

4.40

4.47

3.59

2.04

1.24

2,157

2,821

3,690

4,382

4,747

5,038

5,414

5,726

5.37

5.37

3.43

1.60

1.19

1.44

1.12

Xiangfan, Hubei

554

685

847

1,278

1,399

1,536

1,674

1,786

4.25

4.25

8.21

1.81

1.87

1.72

1.30

Xiangtan, Hunan

456

564

698

806

926

1,050

1,155

1,236

4.25

4.25

2.88

2.78

2.52

1.91

1.36

Xi'an, Shaanxi

Xianyang, Shaanxi

317

500

790

908

1,019

1,138

1,247

1,334

9.14

9.14

2.77

2.32

2.21

1.83

1.34

Xining

592

707

844

1,032

1,261

1,488

1,649

1,761

3.55

3.55

4.00

4.02

3.31

2.05

1.31

Xinxiang

450

586

762

884

1,016

1,152

1,267

1,355

5.26

5.26

2.96

2.79

2.52

1.90

1.34

Xuzhou

781

1,033

1,367

1,715

2,142

2,559

2,833

3,015

5.60

5.60

4.54

4.44

3.56

2.04

1.24

Yancheng, Jiangsu

392

513

671

1,071

1,289

1,474

1,622

1,731

5.38

5.38

9.33

3.72

2.68

1.91

1.31

Yangzhou

455

565

702

871

1,080

1,287

1,430

1,529

4.33

4.33

4.33

4.31

3.50

2.10

1.34

Yantai

422

717

1,218

1,383

1,526

1,684

1,836

1,958 10.59

10.59

2.55

1.97

1.97

1.73

1.28

Yichang

492

583

692

879

959

1,039

1,132

1,210

3.40

3.40

4.79

1.74

1.61

1.71

1.35

Yichun, Heilongjiang

855

835

815

796

779

795

856

917

-0.47

-0.47

-0.47

-0.45

0.43

1.47

1.37

Yinchuan

384

468

571

720

911

1,099

1,225

1,312

3.97

3.97

4.66

4.69

3.76

2.18

1.36

Yingkou

458

535

624

728

848

972

1,072

1,148

3.08

3.08

3.08

3.07

2.71

1.96

1.37

Yiyang, Hunan

191

360

678

760

820

892

974

1,043 12.69

12.69

2.26

1.52

1.70

1.74

1.37

Yueyang

305

518

881

997

1,096

1,206

1,317

1,408 10.62

10.62

2.47

1.89

1.93

1.76

1.33

10.36

3.45

2.95

2.62

1.90

1.32

3.56

2.72

2.66

2.43

1.88

1.34

Zaozhuang

303

508

853

1,014

1,175

1,339

1,473

1,574 10.36

Zhangjiakou

558

667

797

913

1,043

1,178

1,294

1,384

Zhanjiang

3.56

486

630

818

908

996

1,097

1,198

1,281

5.21

5.21

2.08

1.86

1.92

1.77

1.34

1,134

1,663

2,438

2,715

2,966

3,245

3,519

3,734

7.65

7.65

2.16

1.76

1.80

1.62

1.19

Zhenjiang, Jiangsu

328

472

679

832

1,007

1,181

1,308

1,399

7.27

7.27

4.06

3.82

3.19

2.04

1.35

Zhongshan

393

736

1,376

1,768

2,211

2,643

2,927

3,114 12.51

12.52

5.02

4.47

3.57

2.04

1.24

Zhengzhou

132

Statistical Annex

Table 4
City population and city population growth rate of urban agglomerations with 750,000 Inhabitants or More in 2009,
by Country, 1950-2025 (thousands)
City Population of
Urban Agglomerations (’000)
Country/City

1990

1995

2000

2005

2010

City Population Growth Rate of
Urban Agglomerations (%)

2015

2020

2025

19901995

Zhuhai

220

419

799

1,224

1,252

1,315

1,420

1,516 12.89

Zhuzhou

430

593

819

923

1,025

1,137

1,244

1,330

6.45

19952000

20002005

20052010

20102015

20152020

20202025

12.90

8.55

0.44

0.98

1.54

1.31

6.45

2.39

2.10

2.07

1.80

1.34

Zibo

777

1,207

1,874

2,168

2,456

2,752

3,004

3,192

8.80

8.80

2.92

2.49

2.28

1.75

1.22

Zigong

368

467

592

847

918

982

1,067

1,142

4.75

4.75

7.17

1.62

1.35

1.65

1.35

Zunyi

250

368

541

679

843

1,005

1,118

1,198

7.72

7.72

4.55

4.31

3.52

2.14

1.37

5,677

6,214

6,667

6,883

7,069

7,398

7,701

7,969

1.81

1.41

0.64

0.54

0.91

0.80

0.68

2,145

China, Hong Kong SAR
Hong Kong

Colombia
Barranquilla

1,229

1,363

1,531

1,719

1,867

2,015

2,255

2.06

2.32

2.32

1.65

1.53

1.25

1.00

Bogotá

4,740

5,494

6,356

7,353

8,500

9,521 10,129 10,537

2.95

2.92

2.91

2.90

2.27

1.24

0.79

Bucaramanga
Cali

650

759

855

964

1,092

1,213

1,303

1,375

3.08

2.39

2.39

2.49

2.11

1.43

1.08

1,552

1,757

1,950

2,164

2,401

2,627

2,800

2,938

2.48

2.08

2.08

2.08

1.80

1.28

0.97

Cartagena

561

645

737

842

962

1,076

1,158

1,223

2.77

2.68

2.67

2.66

2.23

1.47

1.10

Cúcuta

506

571

632

700

774

848

910

963

2.41

2.04

2.03

2.03

1.82

1.41

1.13

2,135

2,372

2,724

3,127

3,594

4,019

4,294

4,494

2.11

2.76

2.76

2.78

2.24

1.33

0.91

704

830

986

1,172

1,323

1,504

1,703

1,878

3.31

3.44

3.46

2.42

2.55

2.49

1.95

737

867

1,032

1,232

1,461

1,655

1,799

1,923

3.25

3.48

3.54

3.41

2.50

1.67

1.33

2,102

2,535

3,032

3,564

4,125

4,788

5,550

6,321

3.74

3.58

3.24

2.92

2.98

2.95

2.60

136

218

348

556

885

1,273

1,559

1,797

9.36

9.37

9.36

9.32

7.27

4.06

2.83

2,108

2,151

2,187

2,187

2,130

2,100

2,095

2,094

0.40

0.33

0.00

-0.53

-0.28

-0.05

-0.00

1,212

1,194

1,172

1,164

1,162

1,165

1,168

1,173

-0.29

-0.38

-0.14

-0.02

0.04

0.06

0.08

2,777

2,805

2,833

2,859

2,894

2,941

1.70

0.20

0.20

0.20

0.18

0.24

0.33

878

1,087

1,324

1,583

4.92

4.03

4.89

4.40

4.26

3.95

3.57

8,754 10,668 12,788 15,041

5.06

4.02

4.72

4.17

3.96

3.62

3.25

4.34

3.45

4.32

4.03

4.19

3.96

3.58

Medellín

Congo
Brazzaville

Costa Rica
San José

Côte d'Ivoire
Abidjan
Yamoussoukro

Cuba
La Habana (Havana)

Czech Republic
Praha (Prague)

Dem. People’s Republic of Korea
P’yongyang

2,526

2,749

Democratic Republic of the Congo
Kananga

353

451

552

705

Kinshasa

3,564

4,590

5,611

7,106

Kisangani

362

450

535

664

812

1,002

1,221

1,461

Lubumbashi

655

826

995

1,252

1,543

1,899

2,304

2,744

4.62

3.73

4.60

4.17

4.15

3.87

3.49

Mbuji-Mayi

580

749

924

1,190

1,488

1,838

2,232

2,658

5.09

4.20

5.06

4.48

4.22

3.88

3.50

1,035

1,048

1,077

1,125

1,186

1,228

1,238

1,238

0.25

0.54

0.87

1.05

0.70

0.16

0.01

1,522

1,661

1,813

1,981

2,180

2,381

2,552

2,691

1.74

1.76

1.77

1.92

1.76

1.39

1.06

Denmark
København (Copenhagen)

Dominican Republic
Santo Domingo

Ecuador
Guayaquil

1,572

1,808

2,077

2,386

2,690

2,941

3,153

3,328

2.80

2.78

2.77

2.39

1.79

1.39

1.08

Quito

1,088

1,217

1,357

1,593

1,846

2,035

2,188

2,316

2.25

2.18

3.20

2.95

1.95

1.45

1.13

133

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

Table 4
City population and city population growth rate of urban agglomerations with 750,000 Inhabitants or More in 2009,
by Country, 1950-2025 (thousands)
City Population of
Urban Agglomerations (’000)

City Population Growth Rate of
Urban Agglomerations (%)

1990

1995

2000

2005

2010

2015

2020

2025

19901995

19952000

20002005

20052010

20102015

20152020

20202025

Al-Iskandariyah
(Alexandria)

3,063

3,277

3,592

3,973

4,387

4,791

5,201

5,648

1.35

1.83

2.02

1.98

1.76

1.64

1.65

Al-Qahirah (Cairo)

9,061

9,707 10,170 10,565 11,001 11,663 12,540 13,531

1.38

0.93

0.76

0.81

1.17

1.45

1.52

970

1,112

1,248

1,401

1,565

1,691

1,789

1,891

2.73

2.32

2.32

2.21

1.55

1.13

1.10

1,791

2,144

2,376

2,633

2,930

3,365

3,981

4,757

3.60

2.05

2.05

2.13

2.77

3.36

3.56

871

943

1,019

1,067

1,117

1,153

1,170

1,174

1.58

1.56

0.92

0.91

0.65

0.28

0.07

Country/City
Egypt

El Salvador
San Salvador

Ethiopia
Addis Ababa

Finland
Helsinki

France
Bordeaux

698

730

763

799

838

875

899

913

0.88

0.89

0.93

0.95

0.86

0.55

0.29

Lille

961

984

1,004

1,015

1,033

1,066

1,092

1,107

0.47

0.41

0.22

0.35

0.62

0.50

0.26

Lyon

1,265

1,313

1,362

1,412

1,468

1,523

1,559

1,575

0.74

0.73

0.73

0.77

0.74

0.46

0.21

Marseille-Aix-en-Provence 1,305

1,331

1,363

1,413

1,469

1,524

1,560

1,577

0.39

0.48

0.73

0.77

0.74

0.46

0.21

899

936

977

1,018

1,045

1,059

0.46

0.56

0.82

0.86

0.81

0.52

0.27

9,739 10,105 10,485 10,777 10,880 10,884

0.38

0.48

0.74

0.74

0.55

0.19

0.01

Nice-Cannes
Paris
Toulouse

854

874

9,330

9,510

654

714

778

844

912

962

989

1,003

1.75

1.72

1.63

1.55

1.07

0.55

0.28

1,224

1,160

1,100

1,093

1,120

1,136

1,138

1,138

-1.07

-1.07

-0.12

0.48

0.28

0.05

0.00

Georgia
Tbilisi

Germany
Berlin

3,422

3,471

3,384

3,391

3,450

3,489

3,498

3,499

0.29

-0.51

0.04

0.34

0.23

0.05

0.00

Hamburg

1,639

1,707

1,710

1,739

1,786

1,818

1,825

1,825

0.81

0.04

0.34

0.53

0.35

0.08

0.00

Köln (Cologne)
München (Munich)

950

965

963

976

1,001

1,015

1,018

1,018

0.31

-0.04

0.28

0.50

0.26

0.06

0.00

1,218

1,241

1,202

1,254

1,349

1,401

1,412

1,413

0.37

-0.62

0.85

1.46

0.75

0.17

0.01

1,197

1,415

1,674

1,985

2,342

2,722

3,110

3,497

3.35

3.35

3.41

3.30

3.01

2.66

2.35

696

909

1,187

1,519

1,834

2,139

2,448

2,757

5.34

5.34

4.94

3.76

3.08

2.70

2.38

3,070

3,122

3,179

3,230

3,257

3,283

3,312

3,346

0.34

0.37

0.31

0.17

0.16

0.17

0.21

746

771

797

821

837

853

868

886

0.66

0.67

0.60

0.40

0.36

0.37

0.40

803

839

908

984

1,104

1,281

1,481

1,690

0.89

1.57

1.62

2.30

2.97

2.90

2.64

895

1,045

1,219

1,411

1,653

2,004

2,427

2,906

3.11

3.08

2.92

3.17

3.84

3.83

3.61

1,134

1,427

1,693

2,171

2,143

2,481

2,868

3,246

4.60

3.42

4.96

-0.25

2.93

2.90

2.48

578

677

793

901

1,028

1,181

1,339

1,493

3.16

3.16

2.57

2.63

2.77

2.51

2.18

2,005

1,893

1,787

1,698

1,706

1,711

1,711

1,711

-1.15

-1.15

-1.02

0.09

0.05

0.01

0.00

Ghana
Accra

Ghana
Kumasi

Greece
Athínai (Athens)
Thessaloniki

Guatemala
Ciudad de Guatemala
(Guatemala City)

Guinea
Conakry

Haiti
Port-au-Prince

Honduras
Tegucigalpa

Hungary
Budapest

134

Statistical Annex

Table 4
City population and city population growth rate of urban agglomerations with 750,000 Inhabitants or More in 2009,
by Country, 1950-2025 (thousands)
City Population of
Urban Agglomerations (’000)
Country/City

1990

1995

2000

2005

2010

2015

City Population Growth Rate of
Urban Agglomerations (%)
2020

2025

19901995

19952000

20002005

20052010

20102015

20152020

20202025

India
Agra
Ahmadabad

933

1,095

1,293

1,511

1,703

1,886

2,089

2,313

3.20

3.32

3.13

2.38

2.04

2.04

2.04

3,255

3,790

4,427

5,122

5,717

6,277

6,892

7,567

3.04

3.11

2.92

2.20

1.87

1.87

1.87

Aligarh

468

554

653

763

863

960

1,068

1,189

3.39

3.29

3.11

2.44

2.14

2.14

2.14

Allahabad

830

928

1,035

1,152

1,277

1,415

1,570

1,742

2.23

2.17

2.15

2.06

2.05

2.08

2.08

Amritsar

726

844

990

1,152

1,297

1,439

1,597

1,771

3.00

3.20

3.02

2.37

2.08

2.08

2.08

Asansol

727

891

1,065

1,258

1,423

1,579

1,751

1,941

4.06

3.56

3.33

2.47

2.08

2.07

2.06

Aurangabad

568

708

868

1,049

1,198

1,331

1,478

1,641

4.38

4.09

3.79

2.65

2.12

2.09

2.09

4,036

4,744

5,567

6,465

7,218

7,913

8,674

9,507

3.23

3.20

2.99

2.20

1.84

1.84

1.83

Bareilly

Bangalore

604

664

722

787

868

963

1,072

1,192

1.87

1.67

1.73

1.95

2.09

2.14

2.13

Bhiwandi

362

479

603

745

859

957

1,066

1,186

5.62

4.60

4.23

2.84

2.18

2.14

2.14

1,046

1,228

1,426

1,644

1,843

2,039

2,257

2,497

3.21

3.00

2.85

2.28

2.02

2.03

2.03

395

504

637

790

912

1,017

1,131

1,258

4.90

4.69

4.30

2.86

2.17

2.13

2.13

Bhopal
Bhubaneswar
Chandigarh

564

667

791

928

1,049

1,166

1,296

1,440

3.36

3.40

3.20

2.46

2.11

2.11

2.11

5,338

5,836

6,353

6,919

7,547

8,253

9,043

9,909

1.78

1.70

1.71

1.74

1.79

1.83

1.83

Coimbatore

1,088

1,239

1,420

1,619

1,807

1,999

2,212

2,449

2.60

2.73

2.62

2.20

2.02

2.03

2.03

Delhi

9,726 12,407 15,730 19,493 22,157 24,160 26,272 28,568

4.87

4.75

4.29

2.56

1.73

1.68

1.68

Chennai (Madras)

Dhanbad

805

915

1,046

1,189

1,328

1,472

1,633

1,812

2.56

2.67

2.58

2.21

2.06

2.08

2.07

Durg-Bhilainagar

670

780

905

1,044

1,172

1,301

1,445

1,604

3.03

2.98

2.84

2.32

2.09

2.10

2.09

Guwahati (Gauhati)

564

675

797

932

1,053

1,170

1,300

1,445

3.60

3.32

3.14

2.43

2.11

2.11

2.11

Gwalior

706

779

855

940

1,039

1,152

1,280

1,423

1.97

1.88

1.90

1.99

2.07

2.11

2.11

Hubli-Dharwad

639

705

776

855

946

1,050

1,168

1,299

1.95

1.93

1.95

2.02

2.08

2.13

2.12

Hyderabad

4,193

4,825

5,445

6,117

6,751

7,396

8,110

8,894

2.81

2.42

2.33

1.97

1.83

1.85

1.84

Indore

1,088

1,314

1,597

1,914

2,173

2,405

2,659

2,939

3.77

3.91

3.62

2.54

2.03

2.01

2.00

Jabalpur
Jaipur

879

981

1,100

1,231

1,367

1,514

1,679

1,862

2.19

2.29

2.25

2.09

2.04

2.07

2.07

1,478

1,826

2,259

2,748

3,131

3,458

3,813

4,205

4.23

4.26

3.91

2.61

1.99

1.96

1.95

Jalandhar

502

588

694

811

917

1,020

1,134

1,262

3.16

3.31

3.13

2.44

2.13

2.13

2.13

Jammu

356

458

588

739

857

956

1,064

1,184

5.00

5.01

4.58

2.97

2.19

2.14

2.14

Jamshedpur

817

938

1,081

1,239

1,387

1,537

1,705

1,891

2.75

2.84

2.72

2.26

2.06

2.07

2.07

Jodhpur

654

743

842

951

1,061

1,177

1,308

1,454

2.54

2.51

2.44

2.18

2.09

2.11

2.11

Kanpur

2,001

2,294

2,641

3,020

3,364

3,706

4,084

4,501

2.73

2.82

2.68

2.16

1.93

1.94

1.94

Kochi (Cochin)

1,103

1,229

1,340

1,464

1,610

1,779

1,971

2,184

2.17

1.73

1.76

1.90

2.00

2.05

2.05

10,890 11,924 13,058 14,284 15,552 16,924 18,449 20,112

1.82

1.82

1.79

1.70

1.69

1.73

1.73

Kolkata (Calcutta)
Kota

523

604

692

789

884

982

1,093

1,216

2.89

2.71

2.62

2.26

2.12

2.14

2.13

Kozhikode (Calicut)

781

835

875

924

1,007

1,115

1,240

1,378

1.33

0.94

1.10

1.71

2.05

2.12

2.11

Lucknow

1,614

1,906

2,221

2,567

2,873

3,169

3,497

3,858

3.33

3.06

2.89

2.25

1.96

1.97

1.97

Ludhiana

1,006

1,183

1,368

1,572

1,760

1,947

2,156

2,387

3.24

2.91

2.78

2.26

2.03

2.04

2.03

Madurai

1,073

1,132

1,187

1,255

1,365

1,509

1,674

1,856

1.07

0.95

1.11

1.68

2.00

2.07

2.07

824

975

1,143

1,328

1,494

1,656

1,836

2,035

3.36

3.18

3.00

2.35

2.06

2.06

2.06

436

520

626

744

845

941

1,048

1,166

3.53

3.68

3.45

2.56

2.15

2.14

2.14

12,308 14,111 16,086 18,205 20,041 21,797 23,719 25,810

2.73

2.62

2.48

1.92

1.68

1.69

1.69

2.01

1.85

1.88

1.99

2.08

2.13

2.12

Meerut
Moradabad
Mumbai (Bombay)
Mysore

640

708

776

853

942

1,045

1,163

Nagpur

1,637

1,849

2,089

2,351

2,607

2,875

3,175

3,505

2.44

2.44

2.36

2.07

1.96

1.98

1.98

Nashik

700

886

1,117

1,381

1,588

1,763

1,954

2,165

4.71

4.63

4.24

2.79

2.09

2.05

2.05

135

1,293

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

Table 4
City population and city population growth rate of urban agglomerations with 750,000 Inhabitants or More in 2009,
by Country, 1950-2025 (thousands)
City Population of
Urban Agglomerations (’000)
Country/City

1990

1995

2000

2005

2010

2015

City Population Growth Rate of
Urban Agglomerations (%)
2020

2025

19901995

19952000

20002005

20052010

20102015

20152020

20202025

Patna

1,087

1,331

1,658

2,030

2,321

2,569

2,839

3,137

4.05

4.40

4.04

2.68

2.03

2.00

1.99

Pune (Poona)

2,430

2,978

3,655

4,412

5,002

5,505

6,050

6,649

4.07

4.09

3.76

2.51

1.92

1.89

1.89

Raipur

453

553

680

824

943

1,050

1,167

1,298

4.00

4.13

3.83

2.69

2.15

2.13

2.12

Rajkot

638

787

974

1,186

1,357

1,508

1,672

1,855

4.21

4.26

3.93

2.69

2.11

2.07

2.07

Ranchi

607

712

844

990

1,119

1,243

1,380

1,533

3.21

3.39

3.19

2.45

2.11

2.10

2.10

Salem

574

647

736

834

932

1,035

1,152

1,281

2.38

2.58

2.51

2.22

2.11

2.13

2.12
2.10

Solapur

613

720

853

1,002

1,133

1,258

1,398

1,552

3.20

3.41

3.21

2.45

2.10

2.10

Srinagar

730

833

954

1,088

1,216

1,349

1,497

1,662

2.62

2.72

2.62

2.23

2.07

2.09

2.09

1,468

1,984

2,699

3,558

4,168

4,607

5,071

5,579

6.01

6.16

5.53

3.16

2.01

1.92

1.91

Surat
Thiruvananthapuram

801

853

885

927

1,006

1,114

1,239

1,377

1.25

0.73

0.93

1.65

2.04

2.12

2.11

Tiruchirappalli

705

768

837

916

1,010

1,120

1,245

1,383

1.71

1.74

1.79

1.95

2.07

2.12

2.11

299

392

523

678

795

888

989

1,101

5.43

5.73

5.19

3.19

2.22

2.15

2.15

Vadodara

Tiruppur

1,096

1,273

1,465

1,676

1,872

2,071

2,292

2,536

2.99

2.81

2.69

2.22

2.02

2.03

2.03

Varanasi (Benares)

1,013

1,106

1,199

1,303

1,432

1,584

1,756

1,947

1.75

1.62

1.67

1.88

2.02

2.07

2.06

821

914

999

1,095

1,207

1,337

1,484

1,647

2.14

1.79

1.82

1.95

2.05

2.09

2.09

1,018

1,168

1,309

1,465

1,625

1,798

1,992

2,206

2.73

2.29

2.25

2.07

2.02

2.05

2.05

Vijayawada
Visakhapatnam

Indonesia
Bandar Lampung
Bandung
Bogor

454

578

743

790

799

842

903

972

4.84

5.01

1.22

0.23

1.03

1.41

1.47

2,035

2,097

2,138

2,280

2,412

2,568

2,739

2,925

0.59

0.39

1.29

1.13

1.25

1.29

1.31

1,251

596

668

751

880

1,044

1,162

1,344

2.26

2.36

3.17

3.41

2.14

1.48

1.43

Jakarta

8,175

8,322

8,390

8,795

9,210

9,709 10,256 10,850

0.36

0.16

0.94

0.92

1.05

1.10

1.13

Malang

689

725

757

773

786

1.03

0.88

0.40

0.35

1.08

1.42

1.48

830

891

959

Medan

1,718

1,816

1,912

2,023

2,131

2,266

2,419

2,586

1.11

1.03

1.13

1.04

1.23

1.30

1.33

Palembang

1,130

1,287

1,459

1,331

1,244

1,271

1,356

1,456

2.59

2.51

-1.83

-1.35

0.43

1.30

1.41

389

481

588

699

769

834

898

967

4.26

4.02

3.47

1.89

1.63

1.47

1.48

Semarang

1,243

1,333

1,427

1,359

1,296

1,334

1,424

1,528

1.40

1.36

-0.98

-0.94

0.57

1.31

1.41

Surabaya

2,467

2,544

2,611

2,623

2,509

2,576

2,738

2,923

0.62

0.51

0.09

-0.89

0.53

1.22

1.31

816

918

1,031

1,159

1,294

1,409

1,512

1,621

2.35

2.34

2.34

2.21

1.69

1.41

1.40

Pekan Baru

Ujung Pandang

Iran (Islamic Republic of)
Ahvaz
Esfahan

685

784

868

960

1,060

1,160

1,249

1,317

2.69

2.03

2.01

1.99

1.80

1.48

1.07

1,094

1,230

1,382

1,553

1,742

1,914

2,056

2,161

2.33

2.33

2.34

2.29

1.89

1.43

1.00

Karaj

693

903

1,087

1,317

1,584

1,796

1,937

2,038

5.30

3.70

3.84

3.69

2.52

1.52

1.01

Kermanshah

608

675

729

781

837

905

974

1,029

2.11

1.55

1.36

1.40

1.55

1.48

1.10

1,680

1,854

2,073

2,348

2,652

2,919

3,128

3,277

1.97

2.23

2.50

2.43

1.92

1.38

0.94

622

744

843

938

1,042

1,143

1,232

1,299

3.56

2.49

2.14

2.11

1.85

1.49

1.07

Mashhad
Qom
Shiraz

946

1,030

1,115

1,203

1,299

1,406

1,510

1,590

1.70

1.58

1.52

1.54

1.58

1.42

1.04

Tabriz

1,058

1,165

1,264

1,369

1,483

1,606

1,724

1,814

1.91

1.64

1.59

1.60

1.60

1.41

1.02

Tehran

6,365

6,687

6,880

7,044

7,241

7,614

8,059

8,387

0.99

0.57

0.47

0.55

1.00

1.14

0.80

Iraq
Al-Basrah (Basra)

474

631

759

837

923

1,023

1,139

1,267

5.71

3.68

1.96

1.96

2.05

2.15

2.14

Al-Mawsil (Mosul)

736

889

1,056

1,236

1,447

1,676

1,885

2,092

3.78

3.44

3.15

3.15

2.94

2.35

2.08

4,092

4,598

5,200

5,327

5,891

6,614

7,321

8,043

2.34

2.46

0.48

2.01

2.32

2.03

1.88

Baghdad
Irbil (Erbil)

536

644

757

874

1,009

1,158

1,301

1,447

3.65

3.23

2.88

2.88

2.74

2.33

2.13

Sulaimaniya

402

483

580

696

836

988

1,121

1,249

3.66

3.66

3.66

3.66

3.34

2.52

2.17

136

Statistical Annex

Table 4
City population and city population growth rate of urban agglomerations with 750,000 Inhabitants or More in 2009,
by Country, 1950-2025 (thousands)
City Population of
Urban Agglomerations (’000)
Country/City

City Population Growth Rate of
Urban Agglomerations (%)

1990

1995

2000

2005

2010

2015

2020

2025

19901995

19952000

20002005

20052010

20102015

20152020

20202025

916

946

989

1,037

1,099

1,179

1,261

1,337

0.65

0.87

0.96

1.15

1.42

1.34

1.17

Ireland
Dublin

Israel
Hefa (Haifa)

582

775

888

992

1,036

1,089

1,144

1,195

5.74

2.73

2.22

0.87

0.98

0.99

0.87

Jerusalem

522

610

651

712

782

850

901

944

3.12

1.31

1.76

1.89

1.66

1.17

0.92

2,026

2,442

2,752

3,012

3,272

3,515

3,689

3,823

3.73

2.39

1.81

1.65

1.44

0.96

0.71

Tel Aviv-Yafo
(Tel Aviv-Jaffa)

Italy
Milano (Milan)

3,063

3,020

2,985

2,956

2,967

2,980

2,981

2,981

-0.28

-0.23

-0.19

0.07

0.09

0.00

0.00

Napoli (Naples)

2,208

2,218

2,232

2,248

2,276

2,292

2,293

2,293

0.09

0.13

0.14

0.24

0.14

0.01

0.00

844

850

855

861

875

887

891

896

0.14

0.12

0.15

0.32

0.27

0.10

0.09

Roma (Rome)

Palermo

3,450

3,425

3,385

3,352

3,362

3,375

3,376

3,376

-0.14

-0.24

-0.20

0.06

0.08

0.00

0.00

Torino (Turin)

1,775

1,733

1,694

1,662

1,665

1,678

1,679

1,680

-0.48

-0.45

-0.38

0.03

0.15

0.02

0.01

2,487

2,619

2,716

2,771

2,816

2,833

2,834

2,834

1.04

0.73

0.40

0.33

0.12

0.01

0.00
0.00

Japan
Fukuoka-Kitakyushu
Hiroshima

1,986

2,040

2,044

2,063

2,081

2,088

2,088

2,088

0.54

0.04

0.19

0.17

0.06

0.01

Kyoto

1,760

1,804

1,806

1,805

1,804

1,804

1,804

1,804

0.49

0.02

-0.01

-0.01

-0.00

-0.00

—

Nagoya

2,947

3,055

3,122

3,199

3,267

3,292

3,295

3,295

0.71

0.44

0.49

0.42

0.15

0.02

0.00

Osaka-Kobe
Sapporo
Sendai
Tokyo

11,035 11,052 11,165 11,258 11,337 11,365 11,368 11,368

0.03

0.20

0.17

0.14

0.05

0.01

0.00

1.31

0.26

0.73

0.65

0.23

0.02

0.00

2,319

2,476

2,508

2,601

2,687

2,718

2,721

2,721

2,021

2,135

2,184

2,284

2,376

2,410

2,413

2,413

1.09

0.46

0.90

0.79

0.28

0.03

0.00

32,530 33,587 34,450 35,622 36,669 37,049 37,088 37,088

0.64

0.51

0.67

0.58

0.21

0.02

0.00

Jordan
Amman

851

973

1,007

1,042

1,105

1,186

1,272

1,364

2.67

0.68

0.68

1.19

1.41

1.39

1.40

1,080

1,109

1,159

1,267

1,383

1,482

1,554

1,612

0.52

0.90

1.78

1.75

1.38

0.95

0.72

Kazakhstan
Almaty

Kenya
Mombasa
Nairobi

476

572

687

830

1,003

1,216

1,479

1,795

3.65

3.67

3.79

3.78

3.86

3.91

3.87

1,380

1,755

2,230

2,814

3,523

4,303

5,192

6,246

4.81

4.79

4.65

4.50

4.00

3.76

3.69

1,392

1,190

1,499

1,888

2,305

2,592

2,790

2,956

-3.13

4.62

4.61

3.99

2.35

1.47

1.16

635

703

770

820

864

912

967

1,034

2.03

1.82

1.27

1.03

1.08

1.17

1.36

Kuwait
Al Kuwayt (Kuwait City)

Kyrgyzstan
Bishkek

Lao People’s Democratic Republic
Vientiane

451

533

612

702

831

1,035

1,270

1,501

3.32

2.75

2.75

3.39

4.39

4.08

3.35

1,293

1,268

1,487

1,777

1,937

2,033

2,090

2,135

-0.39

3.19

3.57

1.72

0.97

0.55

0.42

1,042

464

836

1,202

827

728

807

932 -16.18

11.76

7.27

-7.47

-2.56

2.06

2.88

862

984

1,022

1,059

1,108

1,192

1,286

1,364

2.64

0.77

0.71

0.89

1.48

1.51

1.17

948

1,169

1,361

1,590

1,879

2,235

2,658

3,148

4.20

3.04

3.10

3.34

3.47

3.46

3.39

Lebanon
Bayrut (Beirut)

Liberia
Monrovia

Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
Tarabulus (Tripoli)

Madagascar
Antananarivo

137

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

Table 4
City population and city population growth rate of urban agglomerations with 750,000 Inhabitants or More in 2009,
by Country, 1950-2025 (thousands)
City Population of
Urban Agglomerations (’000)
Country/City

1990

1995

2000

2005

2010

City Population Growth Rate of
Urban Agglomerations (%)

2015

2020

2025

19901995

19952000

20002005

20052010

20102015

20152020

20202025

Malawi
Blantyre-Limbe

370

446

538

667

856

1,103

1,407

1,766

3.73

3.74

4.30

4.99

5.06

4.87

4.55

Lilongwe

266

362

493

662

865

1,115

1,422

1,784

6.17

6.17

5.89

5.35

5.08

4.87

4.54

Malaysia
Johore Bharu

417

516

630

797

999

1,175

1,295

1,382

4.28

4.01

4.68

4.53

3.25

1.94

1.31

Klang

345

466

631

849

1,128

1,361

1,503

1,603

6.01

6.07

5.93

5.68

3.75

1.99

1.29

1,120

1,213

1,306

1,405

1,519

1,670

1,820

1,938

1.58

1.47

1.47

1.56

1.89

1.72

1.26

746

910

1,110

1,368

1,699

2,086

2,514

2,971

3.96

3.97

4.19

4.32

4.11

3.73

3.35

Kuala Lumpur

Mali
Bamako

Mexico
Aguascalientes

552

631

734

829

926

995

1,039

1,073

2.69

3.02

2.42

2.23

1.43

0.86

0.66

Chihuahua

539

625

683

760

840

899

939

971

2.94

1.77

2.15

2.00

1.36

0.87

0.67

15,312 16,811 18,022 18,735 19,460 20,078 20,476 20,713

1.87

1.39

0.78

0.76

0.62

0.39

0.23

Ciudad de México
(Mexico City)
Ciudad Juárez

809

997

1,225

1,308

1,394

1,470

1,528

1,575

4.19

4.11

1.32

1.28

1.05

0.77

0.60

Culiacán

606

690

749

791

836

881

918

950

2.60

1.63

1.10

1.11

1.04

0.84

0.68

3,011

3,431

3,703

4,051

4,402

4,648

4,796

4,902

2.61

1.53

1.80

1.66

1.08

0.63

0.44

454

552

616

697

781

840

878

909

3.89

2.19

2.48

2.28

1.46

0.89

0.68

Guadalajara
Hermosillo
León de los Aldamas

961

1,127

1,290

1,429

1,571

1,673

1,739

1,791

3.19

2.70

2.04

1.90

1.26

0.78

0.58

Mérida

664

765

848

931

1,015

1,081

1,127

1,164

2.83

2.06

1.85

1.74

1.25

0.83

0.65

Mexicali

607

690

770

851

934

997

1,040

1,075

2.57

2.21

1.99

1.86

1.30

0.85

0.66

Monterrey

2,594

2,961

3,266

3,579

3,896

4,118

4,253

4,351

2.65

1.96

1.83

1.70

1.11

0.65

0.46

Puebla

1,686

1,692

1,907

2,109

2,315

2,460

2,551

2,620

0.07

2.40

2.02

1.86

1.22

0.72

0.53

Querétaro

561

671

795

911

1,031

1,111

1,160

1,198

3.58

3.39

2.71

2.47

1.51

0.86

0.64

Saltillo

491

577

643

720

801

859

897

928

3.21

2.16

2.28

2.11

1.40

0.88

0.68

San Luis Potosí

665

774

858

952

1,049

1,120

1,168

1,206

3.04

2.06

2.09

1.94

1.32

0.84

0.64

Tampico

563

609

659

709

761

806

842

871

1.54

1.60

1.46

1.41

1.16

0.86

0.69

Tijuana

760

1,017

1,287

1,472

1,664

1,789

1,861

1,915

5.82

4.71

2.69

2.44

1.45

0.79

0.58

Toluca de Lerdo

835

981

1,417

1,498

1,582

1,661

1,725

1,776

3.22

7.35

1.11

1.10

0.98

0.75

0.59

Torreón

882

954

1,014

1,105

1,199

1,273

1,325

1,367

1.55

1.22

1.73

1.63

1.19

0.81

0.62

572

661

764

873

966

1,050

1,129

1,202

2.90

2.90

2.67

2.03

1.66

1.47

1.25

Mongolia
Ulaanbaatar

Morocco
Agadir
Dar-el-Beida (Casablanca)
Fès
Marrakech
Rabat
Tanger

403

536

609

693

783

869

948

1,020

5.70

2.58

2.57

2.44

2.07

1.75

1.46

2,682

2,951

3,043

3,138

3,284

3,537

3,816

4,065

1.91

0.62

0.62

0.91

1.49

1.52

1.26

685

785

870

963

1,065

1,173

1,277

1,371

2.72

2.04

2.04

2.02

1.92

1.70

1.42

578

681

755

837

928

1,023

1,114

1,198

3.26

2.07

2.07

2.06

1.95

1.72

1.44

1,174

1,379

1,507

1,647

1,802

1,973

2,139

2,288

3.22

1.77

1.77

1.80

1.81

1.62

1.35

423

510

591

686

788

877

958

1,030

3.73

2.98

2.98

2.75

2.16

1.75

1.46

Mozambique
Maputo

776

921

1,096

1,341

1,655

1,994

2,350

2,722

3.43

3.47

4.03

4.21

3.73

3.29

2.94

Matola

319

401

504

636

793

961

1,139

1,326

4.55

4.56

4.68

4.41

3.84

3.39

3.04

138

Statistical Annex

Table 4
City population and city population growth rate of urban agglomerations with 750,000 Inhabitants or More in 2009,
by Country, 1950-2025 (thousands)
City Population of
Urban Agglomerations (’000)
Country/City

1990

1995

2000

2005

2010

636

718

810

915

1,034

1,176

—

—

—

57

1,024

1,185

2,907

3,213

3,553

3,928

4,350

4,873

398

509

644

817

1,037

1,295

City Population Growth Rate of
Urban Agglomerations (%)
2025

19901995

19952000

20002005

1,331

1,484

2.43

2.43

2.43

2.45

2.57

2.48

2.18

1,344

1,499

—

—

—

57.77

2.92

2.52

2.18

5,456

6,022

2.01

2.01

2.01

2.04

2.27

2.26

1.98

1,589

1,915

4.92

4.70

4.76

4.78

4.44

4.10

3.73

2015

2020

20052010

20102015

20152020

20202025

Myanmar
Mandalay
Nay Pyi Taw
Yangon

Nepal
Kathmandu

Netherlands
Amsterdam

936

988

1,005

1,023

1,049

1,076

1,097

1,110

1.09

0.34

0.37

0.49

0.50

0.40

0.23

Rotterdam

951

981

991

1,000

1,010

1,026

1,044

1,057

0.62

0.19

0.19

0.19

0.31

0.36

0.24

870

976

1,063

1,189

1,404

1,566

1,631

1,671

2.30

1.71

2.24

3.33

2.17

0.82

0.48

735

865

887

909

944

1,015

1,103

1,192

3.26

0.50

0.50

0.74

1.46

1.67

1.54

432

542

680

848

1,048

1,302

1,643

2,105

4.54

4.55

4.42

4.22

4.35

4.65

4.96

New Zealand
Auckland

Nicaragua
Managua

Niger
Niamey

Nigeria
Aba

484

545

614

691

785

914

1,058

1,203

2.38

2.38

2.38

2.55

3.04

2.93

2.57

Abuja

330

526

832

1,315

1,995

2,563

2,977

3,361

9.31

9.16

9.16

8.33

5.01

3.00

2.43

Benin City
Ibadan

689

845

975

1,124

1,302

1,523

1,758

1,992

4.08

2.85

2.85

2.95

3.13

2.88

2.50

1,739

1,993

2,236

2,509

2,837

3,276

3,760

4,237

2.73

2.30

2.30

2.46

2.88

2.75

2.39

Ilorin

515

580

653

735

835

972

1,125

1,279

2.38

2.38

2.38

2.55

3.03

2.92

2.56

Jos

493

556

627

706

802

934

1,081

1,229

2.39

2.39

2.39

2.56

3.04

2.93

2.57

Kaduna

961

1,083

1,220

1,375

1,561

1,811

2,087

2,362

2.39

2.39

2.39

2.55

2.97

2.84

2.48

3,395

3,922

4,495

Kano

2,095

2,360

2,658

2,993

5,060

2.38

2.38

2.38

2.52

2.89

2.73

2.37

Lagos

4,764

5,966

7,233

8,767 10,578 12,427 14,162 15,810

4.50

3.85

3.85

3.76

3.22

2.61

2.20

Maiduguri

598

673

758

854

970

1,127

1,303

1,480

2.37

2.37

2.37

2.54

3.01

2.90

2.54

Ogbomosho

622

704

798

904

1,032

1,201

1,389

1,576

2.49

2.49

2.49

2.65

3.04

2.90

2.53

Port Harcourt

680

766

863

972

1,104

1,283

1,482

1,681

2.38

2.38

2.38

2.55

3.00

2.88

2.52

Zaria

592

667

752

847

963

1,120

1,295

1,471

2.39

2.39

2.39

2.56

3.02

2.90

2.54

684

729

774

818

888

946

985

1,019

1.28

1.19

1.12

1.64

1.25

0.82

0.68

Norway
Oslo

Pakistan
Faisalabad

1,520

1,804

2,140

2,496

2,849

3,252

3,704

4,200

3.43

3.41

3.08

2.64

2.65

2.60

2.51

Gujranwala

848

1,019

1,224

1,441

1,652

1,893

2,165

2,464

3.69

3.67

3.26

2.74

2.72

2.68

2.59

Hyderabad

950

1,077

1,222

1,394

1,590

1,822

2,084

2,373

2.51

2.52

2.64

2.64

2.73

2.68

2.60

Islamabad

343

452

595

737

856

985

1,132

1,295

5.54

5.47

4.28

3.00

2.83

2.77

2.68

Karachi

7,147

8,467 10,021 11,618 13,125 14,818 16,693 18,725

3.39

3.37

2.96

2.44

2.43

2.38

2.30

Lahore

3,970

4,653

3.17

3.16

2.88

2.50

2.51

2.47

2.38

Multan

953

1,097

1,263

1,453

1,659

1,901

2,174

2,474

2.82

2.83

2.80

2.66

2.72

2.68

2.59

Peshawar

769

905

1,066

1,242

1,422

1,632

1,868

2,128

3.27

3.27

3.05

2.72

2.74

2.70

2.61

Quetta
Rawalpindi

5,449

6,294

7,132

8,087

9,150 10,308

414

504

614

729

841

968

1,113

1,272

3.96

3.93

3.45

2.85

2.82

2.78

2.69

1,087

1,286

1,520

1,772

2,026

2,318

2,646

3,008

3.36

3.34

3.07

2.68

2.69

2.65

2.56

139

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

Table 4
City population and city population growth rate of urban agglomerations with 750,000 Inhabitants or More in 2009,
by Country, 1950-2025 (thousands)
City Population of
Urban Agglomerations (’000)
Country/City

City Population Growth Rate of
Urban Agglomerations (%)

1990

1995

2000

2005

2010

2015

2020

2025

19901995

19952000

20002005

20052010

20102015

20152020

20202025

847

953

1,072

1,216

1,378

1,527

1,652

1,758

2.36

2.36

2.51

2.51

2.04

1.59

1.24

1,091

1,287

1,507

1,762

2,030

2,277

2,505

2,715

3.32

3.15

3.13

2.83

2.30

1.91

1.61

848

903

953

2.17

1.52

1.52

1.52

1.43

1.25

1.09

9,659 10,145 10,530

2.40

2.05

2.05

2.02

1.55

0.98

0.75

1.53

1.75

1.76

1.77

1.89

2.04

2.09

Panama
Ciudad de Panamá
(Panama City)

Paraguay
Asunción

Peru
Arequipa
Lima

564

628

678

732

789

5,837

6,582

7,294

8,081

8,941

612

661

721

787

860

945

1,046

1,162

1,325

1,519

1,701

1,881

Philippines
Cebu
Davao

854

1,001

1,152

2,080

3.17

2.81

2.80

2.72

2.27

2.02

2.01

Manila

7,973

9,401

9,958 10,761 11,628 12,587 13,687 14,916

3.30

1.15

1.55

1.55

1.58

1.68

1.72

444

509

2.71

3.47

3.50

3.38

2.61

2.13

2.09

Zamboanga

605

721

854

973

1,082

1,201

Poland
Kraków (Cracow)
Warszawa (Warsaw)

735

748

756

757

756

756

756

756

0.35

0.21

0.04

-0.03

-0.01

-0.00

-0.00

1,628

1,652

1,666

1,693

1,712

1,720

1,722

1,722

0.29

0.17

0.33

0.22

0.09

0.02

0.00

Portugal
Lisboa (Lisbon)

2,537

2,600

2,672

2,747

2,824

2,907

2,973

3,009

0.49

0.55

0.55

0.55

0.58

0.45

0.24

Porto

1,164

1,206

1,254

1,303

1,355

1,407

1,448

1,473

0.72

0.77

0.77

0.77

0.76

0.57

0.35

1,539

1,855

2,237

2,601

2,743

2,763

2,763

2,763

3.74

3.74

3.01

1.07

0.14

0.00

—

651

771

763

833

909

948

960

961

3.39

-0.23

1.77

1.73

0.85

0.24

0.03

Puerto Rico
San Juan

Republic of Korea
Bucheon
Busan

3,778

3,813

3,673

3,533

3,425

3,407

3,409

3,409

0.18

-0.75

-0.78

-0.62

-0.11

0.01

0.00

Daegu

2,215

2,434

2,478

2,466

2,458

2,474

2,481

2,481

1.88

0.36

-0.10

-0.06

0.12

0.06

0.00

Daejon

1,036

1,256

1,362

1,438

1,509

1,550

1,562

1,562

3.85

1.62

1.09

0.97

0.54

0.15

0.01

Goyang

241

493

744

859

961

1,012

1,025

1,026 14.28

8.25

2.88

2.23

1.03

0.25

0.02

Gwangju

1,122

1,249

1,346

1,413

1,476

1,513

1,524

1,525

2.16

1.49

0.97

0.86

0.50

0.15

0.01

Incheon

1,785

2,271

2,464

2,527

2,583

2,621

2,630

2,631

4.82

1.62

0.51

0.43

0.29

0.07

0.00

534

842

911

934

955

974

983

984

9.10

1.59

0.48

0.45

0.39

0.19

0.02

10,544 10,256

9,917

9,825

9,773

9,767

9,767

9,767

-0.55

-0.67

-0.19

-0.11

-0.01

-0.00

-0.00

Seongnam
Seoul
Suweon

628

748

932

1,037

1,132

1,180

1,193

1,194

3.50

4.42

2.13

1.74

0.84

0.21

0.01

Ulsan

673

945

1,011

1,047

1,081

1,106

1,116

1,117

6.80

1.36

0.69

0.65

0.45

0.18

0.02

2,040

2,018

1,949

1,931

1,934

1,947

1,959

1,963

-0.21

-0.69

-0.19

0.03

0.12

0.13

0.05

Romania
Bucuresti (Bucharest)

Russian Federation
Chelyabinsk

1,129

1,104

1,082

1,094

1,094

1,095

1,095

1,095

-0.45

-0.40

0.21

0.01

0.01

0.00

0.00

Kazan

1,092

1,092

1,096

1,112

1,140

1,159

1,164

1,164

-0.01

0.07

0.29

0.49

0.35

0.08

0.00

911

911

920

961

991

998

999

0.02

0.02

0.18

0.88

0.62

0.14

0.01

9,201 10,005 10,418 10,550 10,641 10,662 10,663

0.47

1.67

0.81

0.25

0.17

0.04

0.00
-0.00

Krasnoyarsk
Moskva (Moscow)

910
8,987

Nizhniy Novgorod

1,420

1,375

1,331

1,286

1,267

1,256

1,253

1,253

-0.65

-0.65

-0.69

-0.29

-0.19

-0.04

Novosibirsk

1,430

1,428

1,426

1,400

1,397

1,397

1,398

1,398

-0.03

-0.03

-0.38

-0.04

0.00

0.00

0.00

Omsk

1,144

1,140

1,136

1,140

1,124

1,114

1,112

1,112

-0.07

-0.07

0.08

-0.28

-0.18

-0.04

-0.00

Perm

1,076

1,044

1,014

992

982

974

972

972

-0.59

-0.59

-0.43

-0.20

-0.16

-0.04

-0.00

Rostov-na-Donu
(Rostov-on-Don)

1,022

1,041

1,061

1,056

1,046

1,040

1,038

1,038

0.38

0.38

-0.10

-0.19

-0.12

-0.03

-0.00

140

Statistical Annex

Table 4
City population and city population growth rate of urban agglomerations with 750,000 Inhabitants or More in 2009,
by Country, 1950-2025 (thousands)
City Population of
Urban Agglomerations (’000)
Country/City

1990

1995

2000

2005

2010

City Population Growth Rate of
Urban Agglomerations (%)

2015

2020

2025

19901995

19952000

20002005

20052010

20102015

20152020

20202025

Samara

1,244

1,208

1,173

1,146

1,131

1,121

1,119

1,119

-0.58

-0.58

-0.48

-0.27

-0.16

-0.04

-0.00

Sankt Peterburg
(Saint Petersburg)

4,989

4,836

4,719

4,598

4,575

4,561

4,557

4,557

-0.62

-0.49

-0.52

-0.10

-0.06

-0.01

-0.00

Saratov

901

890

878

853

822

802

798

797

-0.25

-0.25

-0.60

-0.74

-0.49

-0.11

-0.01

1,078

1,063

1,049

1,032

1,023

1,017

1,016

1,016

-0.27

-0.27

-0.33

-0.18

-0.10

-0.02

-0.00

Volgograd

999

1,005

1,010

994

977

967

965

964

0.11

0.11

-0.32

-0.34

-0.21

-0.05

-0.00

Voronezh

880

867

854

847

842

839

838

838

-0.30

-0.30

-0.17

-0.12

-0.07

-0.02

-0.00

1,350

1,326

1,303

1,307

1,344

1,370

1,376

1,377

-0.35

-0.35

0.06

0.56

0.39

0.09

0.00

219

278

497

775

939

1,138

1,392

1,690

4.77

11.63

8.86

3.85

3.84

4.02

3.88

409

533

639

766

902

1,013

1,109

1,197

5.30

3.63

3.62

3.26

2.33

1.80

1.53

Ufa

Yekaterinburg

Rwanda
Kigali

Saudi Arabia
Ad-Dammam

529

669

795

944

1,104

1,236

1,351

1,456

4.69

3.45

3.45

3.12

2.27

1.77

1.50

Ar-Riyadh (Riyadh)

Al-Madinah (Medina)

2,325

3,035

3,567

4,193

4,848

5,373

5,809

6,196

5.33

3.23

3.23

2.90

2.06

1.56

1.29

Jiddah

1,742

2,200

2,509

2,860

3,234

3,569

3,868

4,138

4.66

2.63

2.62

2.46

1.97

1.61

1.35

856

1,033

1,168

1,319

1,484

1,642

1,789

1,924

3.76

2.45

2.45

2.35

2.02

1.72

1.46

1,405

1,688

2,029

2,434

2,863

3,308

3,796

4,338

3.67

3.68

3.64

3.25

2.89

2.75

2.67

1,130

1,128

1,122

1,116

1,117

1,131

1,149

1,168

-0.03

-0.11

-0.11

0.03

0.25

0.31

0.32

529

603

688

785

901

1,046

1,219

1,420

2.62

2.63

2.62

2.76

2.99

3.06

3.05

3,016

3,480

4,018

4,267

4,837

5,059

5,219

5,362

2.86

2.88

1.20

2.51

0.90

0.63

0.54

1,035

1,147

1,201

1,415

1,500

1,795

2,156

2,588

2.04

0.92

3.28

1.17

3.59

3.67

3.66

Makkah (Mecca)

Senegal
Dakar

Serbia
Beograd (Belgrade)

Sierra Leone
Freetown

Singapore
Singapore

Somalia
Muqdisho (Mogadishu)

South Africa
Cape Town

2,155

2,394

2,715

3,091

3,405

3,579

3,701

3,824

2.10

2.52

2.59

1.93

1.00

0.67

0.65

Durban

1,723

2,081

2,370

2,638

2,879

3,026

3,133

3,241

3.77

2.60

2.15

1.75

1.00

0.69

0.68

Ekurhuleni (East Rand)

1,531

1,894

2,326

2,824

3,202

3,380

3,497

3,614

4.26

4.11

3.88

2.51

1.08

0.68

0.66

Johannesburg

1,898

2,265

2,732

3,263

3,670

3,867

3,996

4,127

3.53

3.75

3.55

2.35

1.05

0.66

0.64

Port Elizabeth

828

911

958

1,002

1,068

1,126

1,173

1,222

1.93

1.00

0.90

1.27

1.06

0.83

0.82

Pretoria

911

951

1,084

1,274

1,429

1,514

1,575

1,637

0.85

2.61

3.24

2.29

1.16

0.79

0.77

Vereeniging

743

800

897

1,029

1,143

1,211

1,262

1,313

1.48

2.30

2.75

2.09

1.16

0.82

0.81

Barcelona

4,101

4,318

4,560

4,815

5,083

5,315

5,443

5,477

1.03

1.09

1.09

1.09

0.89

0.48

0.12

Madrid

4,414

4,688

5,014

5,409

5,851

6,213

6,379

6,412

1.20

1.35

1.52

1.57

1.20

0.53

0.10

776

785

795

804

814

832

857

873

0.25

0.24

0.24

0.24

0.44

0.58

0.38

2,360

3,242

3,949

4,518

5,172

6,046

7,005

7,953

6.35

3.95

2.69

2.70

3.12

2.95

2.54

1,038

1,138

1,206

1,248

1,285

1,309

1,327

1,345

1.83

1.16

0.69

0.59

0.36

0.28

0.26

1,006

1,048

1,078

1,114

1,150

1,177

1,196

1,217

0.83

0.56

0.65

0.64

0.45

0.32

0.35

Spain

Valencia

Sudan
Al-Khartum (Khartoum)

Sweden
Stockholm

Switzerland
Zürich (Zurich)

141

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

Table 4
City population and city population growth rate of urban agglomerations with 750,000 Inhabitants or More in 2009,
by Country, 1950-2025 (thousands)
City Population of
Urban Agglomerations (’000)
Country/City

1990

1995

2000

2005

2010

City Population Growth Rate of
Urban Agglomerations (%)

2015

2020

2025

19901995

19952000

20002005

20052010

20102015

20152020

20202025

Syrian Arab Republic
Dimashq (Damascus)

1,691

1,854

2,063

2,294

2,597

2,918

3,213

3,534

1.85

2.13

2.13

2.48

2.33

1.93

1.90

Halab (Aleppo)

1,554

1,864

2,204

2,605

3,087

3,510

3,864

4,244

3.64

3.35

3.35

3.39

2.57

1.92

1.88

Hamah

309

361

495

676

897

1,060

1,180

1,307

3.12

6.27

6.26

5.65

3.34

2.14

2.05

Hims (Homs)

565

684

856

1,072

1,328

1,536

1,702

1,881

3.83

4.49

4.49

4.29

2.91

2.06

1.99

5,888

6,106

6,332

6,614

6,976

7,399

7,902

8,470

0.73

0.73

0.87

1.07

1.18

1.31

1.39

619

795

1,020

1,310

1,667

2,036

2,398

2,763

5.00

5.00

5.00

4.82

4.00

3.27

2.84

644

682

711

734

767

814

864

911

1.16

0.84

0.63

0.87

1.21

1.19

1.04

Thailand
Krung Thep (Bangkok)

Togo
Lomé

Tunisia
Tunis

Turkey
Adana

907

1,011

1,123

1,245

1,361

1,465

1,556

1,635

2.18

2.10

2.06

1.79

1.46

1.21

0.99

Ankara

2,561

2,842

3,179

3,572

3,906

4,174

4,401

4,591

2.08

2.25

2.33

1.79

1.33

1.06

0.85

Antalya

370

471

595

736

838

909

969

1,022

4.83

4.67

4.26

2.62

1.61

1.28

1.06

Bursa

819

981

1,180

1,413

1,588

1,711

1,816

1,906

3.62

3.69

3.60

2.33

1.50

1.19

0.97

992

1,109

1,197

1,274

595

710

844

1,341

3.54

3.47

3.22

2.22

1.53

1.24

1.02

Istanbul

Gaziantep

6,552

7,665

8,744

9,710 10,525 11,164 11,689 12,108

3.14

2.63

2.10

1.61

1.18

0.92

0.70

Izmir

1,741

1,966

2,216

2,487

2,723

2,917

3,083

3,224

2.43

2.39

2.31

1.81

1.38

1.11

0.90

508

610

734

871

978

1,057

1,125

1,186

3.66

3.69

3.42

2.31

1.56

1.26

1.04

755

912

1,097

1,318

1,598

1,982

2,504

3,189

3.79

3.68

3.68

3.85

4.31

4.67

4.83

Konya

Uganda
Kampala

Ukraine
Dnipropetrovsk

1,162

1,119

1,077

1,052

1,004

974

967

967

-0.77

-0.77

-0.47

-0.93

-0.61

-0.14

-0.01

Donetsk

1,097

1,061

1,026

997

966

946

941

941

-0.67

-0.67

-0.57

-0.64

-0.41

-0.09

-0.01
-0.00

Kharkiv

1,586

1,534

1,484

1,464

1,453

1,446

1,444

1,444

-0.66

-0.66

-0.28

-0.15

-0.10

-0.02

Kyiv (Kiev)

2,574

2,590

2,606

2,673

2,805

2,894

2,914

2,915

0.13

0.13

0.51

0.96

0.63

0.14

0.01

Odesa

1,092

1,064

1,037

1,007

1,009

1,010

1,011

1,011

-0.52

-0.52

-0.57

0.04

0.02

0.01

0.00

873

847

822

797

775

761

758

758

-0.60

-0.60

-0.61

-0.56

-0.36

-0.08

-0.00

Dubayy (Dubai)

473

650

906

1,264

1,567

1,772

1,934

2,076

6.36

6.64

6.67

4.30

2.46

1.76

1.42

Sharjah

229

311

444

637

809

926

1,016

1,096

6.11

7.12

7.22

4.78

2.69

1.86

1.51

Zaporizhzhya

United Arab Emirates

United Kingdom
Birmingham

2,301

2,291

2,285

2,283

2,302

2,337

2,375

2,415

-0.09

-0.05

-0.02

0.17

0.30

0.32

0.33

Glasgow

1,217

1,186

1,171

1,160

1,170

1,193

1,218

1,245

-0.52

-0.26

-0.19

0.17

0.39

0.42

0.43

831

829

818

811

819

837

857

878

-0.05

-0.26

-0.18

0.21

0.44

0.47

0.48

London

Liverpool

7,654

7,908

8,225

8,506

8,631

8,693

8,753

8,816

0.65

0.79

0.67

0.29

0.14

0.14

0.14

Manchester

2,282

2,264

2,248

2,237

2,253

2,287

2,325

2,364

-0.16

-0.14

-0.10

0.14

0.30

0.33

0.33

Newcastle upon Tyne
West Yorkshire

877

883

880

880

891

911

932

954

0.14

-0.07

-0.01

0.26

0.43

0.46

0.47

1,449

1,468

1,495

1,521

1,547

1,575

1,606

1,637

0.27

0.36

0.34

0.34

0.37

0.38

0.39

1,668

2,116

2,680

3,349

4,153

5,103

6,202

4.75

4.75

4.73

4.46

4.30

4.12

3.90

United Republic of Tanzania
Dar es Salaam

1,316

142

Statistical Annex

Table 4
City population and city population growth rate of urban agglomerations with 750,000 Inhabitants or More in 2009,
by Country, 1950-2025 (thousands)
City Population of
Urban Agglomerations (’000)
Country/City

1990

1995

2000

2005

2010

City Population Growth Rate of
Urban Agglomerations (%)

2015

2020

2025

19901995

19952000

20002005

20052010

20102015

20152020

20202025

United States of America
Atlanta

2,184

2,781

3,542

4,306

4,691

4,886

5,036

5,153

4.84

4.84

3.90

1.72

0.81

0.60

0.46

Austin

569

720

913

1,107

1,215

1,277

1,329

1,373

4.73

4.73

3.87

1.85

1.00

0.80

0.65

Baltimore

1,849

1,962

2,083

2,206

2,320

2,421

2,508

2,579

1.19

1.19

1.15

1.01

0.85

0.70

0.56

Boston

3,428

3,726

4,049

4,363

4,593

4,773

4,920

5,034

1.66

1.66

1.49

1.03

0.77

0.61

0.46

Bridgeport-Stamford

714

799

894

987

1,055

1,108

1,154

1,193

2.25

2.25

1.99

1.32

0.98

0.82

0.67

Buffalo

955

966

977

1,000

1,045

1,096

1,142

1,181

0.23

0.23

0.45

0.89

0.95

0.82

0.67

Charlotte
Chicago

461

596

769

946

1,043

1,098

1,144

1,183

5.10

5.10

4.16

1.94

1.03

0.82

0.67

7,374

7,839

8,333

8,818

9,204

9,513

9,758

9,936

1.22

1.22

1.13

0.86

0.66

0.51

0.36

Cincinnati

1,335

1,419

1,508

1,600

1,686

1,764

1,831

1,887

1.22

1.22

1.19

1.05

0.90

0.75

0.60

Cleveland

1,680

1,734

1,789

1,856

1,942

2,029

2,104

2,166

0.63

0.63

0.73

0.90

0.87

0.73

0.58

950

1,040

1,138

1,236

1,313

1,376

1,432

1,478

1.81

1.81

1.65

1.21

0.95

0.79

0.64

3,219

3,665

4,172

4,657

4,951

5,145

5,301

5,421

2.59

2.59

2.20

1.22

0.77

0.60

0.45

616

659

706

754

800

841

878

909

1.37

1.37

1.33

1.17

1.01

0.86

0.71

Columbus, Ohio
Dallas-Fort Worth
Dayton
Denver-Aurora

1,528

1,747

1,998

2,240

2,394

2,501

2,590

2,662

2.68

2.68

2.29

1.33

0.87

0.70

0.55

Detroit

3,703

3,804

3,909

4,036

4,200

4,363

4,500

4,608

0.54

0.54

0.64

0.80

0.76

0.62

0.47

El Paso

573

623

678

732

779

820

856

887

1.67

1.67

1.56

1.23

1.02

0.86

0.71

Hartford

783

818

853

894

942

989

1,031

1,067

0.86

0.86

0.93

1.04

0.98

0.83

0.68

Honolulu

635

676

720

767

812

854

891

923

1.27

1.27

1.25

1.14

1.00

0.85

0.71

Houston

2,922

3,353

3,849

4,322

4,605

4,789

4,937

5,051

2.76

2.76

2.32

1.27

0.78

0.61

0.46

Indianapolis

921

1,063

1,228

1,387

1,490

1,562

1,623

1,674

2.87

2.87

2.45

1.42

0.94

0.77

0.62

Jacksonville, Florida

742

811

886

962

1,022

1,074

1,119

1,157

1.78

1.78

1.63

1.23

0.98

0.82

0.67

1,233

1,297

1,365

1,438

1,513

1,584

1,645

1,697

1.02

1.02

1.04

1.02

0.91

0.77

0.62

708

973

1,335

1,721

1,916

2,011

2,086

2,147

6.34

6.34

5.08

2.14

0.97

0.73

0.58

10,883 11,339 11,814 12,303 12,762 13,156 13,463 13,677

0.82

0.82

0.81

0.73

0.61

0.46

0.32

1.34

1.34

1.30

1.14

0.98

0.83

0.68

Kansas City
Las Vegas
Los AngelesLong Beach-Santa Ana
Louisville

757

810

866

925

979

1,028

1,071

1,108

McAllen

268

377

532

701

789

833

870

901

6.87

6.87

5.51

2.36

1.10

0.86

0.71

Memphis

829

899

976

1,053

1,117

1,173

1,221

1,262

1.64

1.64

1.52

1.19

0.97

0.81

0.66

Miami

3,969

4,431

4,946

5,436

5,750

5,967

6,142

6,275

2.20

2.20

1.89

1.12

0.74

0.58

0.43

Milwaukee

1,228

1,269

1,311

1,362

1,428

1,495

1,554

1,603

0.65

0.65

0.76

0.94

0.91

0.77

0.63

Minneapolis-St. Paul

2,087

2,236

2,397

2,557

2,693

2,808

2,905

2,984

1.38

1.39

1.30

1.03

0.84

0.68

0.54

Nashville-Davidson
New Orleans
New York-Newark
Oklahoma City
Orlando
Philadelphia

577

660

755

848

911

958

999

1,034

2.69

2.69

2.32

1.44

1.01

0.84

0.69

1,039

1,024

1,009

996

858

921

984

1,044

-0.30

-0.30

-0.26

-2.99

1.43

1.33

1.18

16,086 16,943 17,846 18,727 19,425 19,968 20,374 20,636
711

729

748

773

812

854

891

923

1.04

1.04

0.96

0.73

0.55

0.40

0.26

0.51

0.51

0.67

0.98

0.99

0.85

0.71

893

1,020

1,165

1,306

1,400

1,468

1,526

1,575

2.66

2.66

2.29

1.38

0.95

0.78

0.63

4,725

4,938

5,160

5,395

5,626

5,833

6,004

6,135

0.88

0.88

0.89

0.84

0.72

0.58

0.43

Phoenix-Mesa

2,025

2,437

2,934

3,418

3,684

3,840

3,965

4,063

3.71

3.71

3.05

1.50

0.83

0.64

0.49

Pittsburgh

1,681

1,717

1,755

1,807

1,887

1,971

2,045

2,106

0.43

0.43

0.58

0.87

0.87

0.73

0.59

Portland

1,181

1,372

1,595

1,811

1,944

2,035

2,110

2,173

3.01

3.01

2.54

1.42

0.91

0.73

0.58

Providence

1,047

1,111

1,178

1,249

1,317

1,380

1,435

1,482

1.18

1.18

1.16

1.07

0.93

0.79

0.64

Raleigh

310

413

549

692

769

812

848

879

5.71

5.71

4.63

2.11

1.08

0.86

0.71

Richmond

696

757

822

888

944

991

1,034

1,070

1.66

1.66

1.54

1.21

0.99

0.83

0.68

143

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

Table 4
City population and city population growth rate of urban agglomerations with 750,000 Inhabitants or More in 2009,
by Country, 1950-2025 (thousands)
City Population of
Urban Agglomerations (’000)

City Population Growth Rate of
Urban Agglomerations (%)
19901995

19952000

20002005

20052010

20102015

20152020

20202025

Country/City

1990

1995

2000

2005

2010

2015

2020

2025

Riverside-San Bernardino

1,178

1,336

1,516

1,691

1,807

1,891

1,962

2,021

2.53

2.53

2.18

1.32

0.91

0.74

0.59

621

658

696

738

780

820

857

888

1.14

1.14

1.15

1.12

1.01

0.86

0.71

1,104

1,244

1,402

1,555

1,660

1,739

1,805

1,861

2.39

2.39

2.08

1.30

0.92

0.75

0.60

792

840

890

944

997

1,047

1,091

1,129

1.17

1.17

1.17

1.10

0.97

0.83

0.68

1,134

1,229

1,333

1,436

1,521

1,593

1,655

1,707

1.62

1.62

1.49

1.15

0.92

0.77

0.62

Rochester
Sacramento
Salt Lake City
San Antonio
San Diego

2,356

2,514

2,683

2,853

2,999

3,125

3,231

3,316

1.30

1.30

1.23

1.00

0.82

0.67

0.52

San Francisco-Oakland

2,961

3,095

3,236

3,386

3,541

3,683

3,804

3,900

0.89

0.89

0.91

0.89

0.79

0.64

0.50

San Jose

1,376

1,457

1,543

1,632

1,718

1,797

1,865

1,922

1.14

1.14

1.13

1.03

0.90

0.75

0.60

Seattle

2,206

2,453

2,727

2,991

3,171

3,305

3,415

3,504

2.12

2.12

1.85

1.17

0.83

0.66

0.51

St. Louis

1,950

2,014

2,081

2,160

2,259

2,357

2,442

2,511

0.65

0.65

0.74

0.89

0.85

0.71

0.56

Tampa-St. Petersburg

1,717

1,886

2,072

2,253

2,387

2,492

2,581

2,653

1.88

1.88

1.68

1.15

0.86

0.70

0.55

582

649

724

798

853

898

936

970

2.18

2.18

1.94

1.33

1.01

0.85

0.70

Tucson
Virginia Beach

1,286

1,341

1,397

1,461

1,534

1,605

1,668

1,720

0.83

0.83

0.89

0.97

0.91

0.76

0.62

Washington, D.C.

3,376

3,651

3,949

4,239

4,460

4,635

4,779

4,891

1.57

1.57

1.42

1.01

0.77

0.61

0.46

1,546

1,584

1,605

1,622

1,635

1,644

1,653

1,657

0.49

0.26

0.21

0.16

0.11

0.11

0.04

2,100

2,116

2,135

2,169

2,210

2,279

2,420

2,616

0.15

0.17

0.32

0.37

0.62

1.20

1.55

Uruguay
Montevideo

Uzbekistan
Tashkent

Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)
742

838

946

1,067

1,180

1,273

1,350

1,413

2.42

2.43

2.39

2.02

1.52

1.17

0.92

Caracas

Barquisimeto

2,767

2,816

2,864

2,929

3,090

3,292

3,467

3,605

0.35

0.34

0.45

1.07

1.27

1.03

0.78

Maracaibo

1,303

1,501

1,724

1,973

2,192

2,357

2,488

2,593

2.82

2.77

2.70

2.10

1.45

1.08

0.83

Maracay

760

831

898

973

1,057

1,138

1,208

1,266

1.77

1.56

1.59

1.67

1.48

1.19

0.93

Valencia

1,053

1,213

1,392

1,592

1,770

1,905

2,014

2,103

2.82

2.76

2.69

2.12

1.48

1.11

0.86
2.38

Viet Nam
388

470

570

692

838

997

1,146

1,291

3.86

3.86

3.85

3.85

3.47

2.78

Hà Noi

Da Nang - CP

1,136

1,344

1,631

2,144

2,814

3,516

4,056

4,530

3.35

3.88

5.46

5.44

4.45

2.86

2.21

Hai Phòng

1,474

1,585

1,704

1,831

1,970

2,164

2,432

2,722

1.45

1.45

1.45

1.46

1.88

2.34

2.25

Thành Pho Ho Chí Minh
(Ho Chi Minh City)

3,411

3,802

4,336

5,264

6,167

7,140

8,067

8,957

2.17

2.63

3.88

3.17

2.93

2.44

2.09

653

1,034

1,365

1,801

2,342

2,934

3,585

4,296

9.18

5.55

5.54

5.26

4.51

4.01

3.62

757

902

1,073

1,265

1,451

1,666

1,941

2,267

3.49

3.49

3.29

2.74

2.77

3.05

3.10

1,047

1,255

1,379

1,513

1,632

1,856

2,170

2,467

3.62

1.89

1.85

1.51

2.57

3.13

2.57

Yemen
Sana'a'

Zambia
Lusaka

Zimbabwe
Harare

Source: United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Population Division (2010) World Urbanization Prospects: The 2009 Revision, United Nations, New York.

144

Statistical Annex

Table 5
Urban Population and Urbanization by Country, 1990-2030
Urban Population (’000)
Country

2010

Level of urbanization (%)

1990

2000

2020

2030

1990

2000

2010

2020

2030

Algeria

13,168

18,246

23,555

29,194

34,097

52.1

59.8

66.5

71.9

76.2

Angola

3,960

6,995

11,112

16,184

21,784

37.1

49.0

58.5

66.0

71.6

Benin

1,654

2,553

3,873

5,751

8,275

34.5

38.3

42.0

47.2

53.7

Africa

Botswana
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cameroon
Cape Verde

567

917

1,209

1,506

1,769

41.9

53.2

61.1

67.6

72.7

1,218

2,083

4,184

7,523

11,958

13.8

17.8

25.7

34.4

42.8

356

536

937

1,524

2,362

6.3

8.3

11.0

14.8

19.8

4,981

7,910

11,655

15,941

20,304

40.7

49.9

58.4

65.5

71.0

156

235

313

394

468

44.1

53.4

61.1

67.4

72.5

Central African Republic

1,078

1,410

1,755

2,268

2,978

36.8

37.6

38.9

42.5

48.4

Chad

1,271

1,964

3,179

5,054

7,843

20.8

23.4

27.6

33.9

41.2

122

155

195

259

356

27.9

28.1

28.2

30.8

36.5

Comoros
Congo

1,329

1,770

2,335

3,118

3,883

54.3

58.3

62.1

66.3

70.9

Côte d'Ivoire

5,011

7,524

10,906

15,574

20,873

39.7

43.5

50.6

57.8

64.1

10,299

15,168

23,887

36,834

53,382

27.8

29.8

35.2

42.0

49.2

Democratic Republic of the Congo
Djibouti
Egypt

424

555

670

798

956

75.7

76.0

76.2

77.6

80.2

25,124

30,032

36,664

45,301

56,477

43.5

42.8

43.4

45.9

50.9

Equatorial Guinea

132

205

275

379

527

34.7

38.8

39.7

43.3

49.4

Eritrea

499

650

1,127

1,845

2,780

15.8

17.8

21.6

27.5

34.4

6,095

9,762

14,158

20,800

31,383

12.6

14.9

16.7

19.3

23.9

641

989

1,292

1,579

1,853

69.1

80.1

86.0

88.8

90.6

Ethiopia
Gabon

343

639

1,018

1,449

1,943

38.3

49.1

58.1

65.0

71.0

Ghana

Gambia

5,454

8,584

12,524

17,274

22,565

36.4

44.0

51.5

58.4

64.7

Guinea

1,723

2,603

3,651

5,580

8,219

28.0

31.0

35.4

41.4

48.6

288

387

494

678

979

28.1

29.7

30.0

32.8

38.6

4,271

6,204

9,064

13,826

20,884

18.2

19.7

22.2

26.6

33.0

Guinea-Bissau
Kenya
Lesotho

224

377

560

775

999

14.0

20.0

26.9

34.5

42.4

Liberia

887

1,252

1,961

2,739

3,725

40.9

44.3

47.8

52.1

57.6

Libyan Arab Jamahiriya

3,305

4,083

5,098

6,181

7,060

75.7

76.4

77.9

80.3

82.9

Madagascar

2,657

4,143

6,082

8,953

13,048

23.6

27.1

30.2

34.9

41.4

Malawi

1,093

1,796

3,102

5,240

8,395

11.6

15.2

19.8

25.5

32.4

Mali

2,018

2,982

4,777

7,325

10,491

23.3

28.3

35.9

43.7

51.3

Mauritania

789

1,041

1,395

1,859

2,478

39.7

40.0

41.4

45.4

51.7

Mauritius

464

510

542

595

681

43.9

42.7

41.8

43.4

48.0

Mayotte

33

71

100

129

168

36.1

47.7

50.1

51.6

55.7

Morocco

12,005

15,375

18,859

23,158

27,157

48.4

53.3

58.2

64.0

69.2

2,857

5,601

8,996

13,208

18,199

21.1

30.7

38.4

46.3

53.7

Mozambique
Namibia
Niger
Nigeria

392

590

840

1,161

1,541

27.7

32.4

38.0

44.4

51.5

1,215

1,785

2,719

4,417

7,641

15.4

16.2

17.1

19.3

23.5

34,343

53,078

78,818

109,859

144,116

35.3

42.5

49.8

56.8

63.6

Réunion

491

650

787

891

972

81.2

89.9

94.0

95.7

96.3

Rwanda

387

1,096

1,938

2,993

4,550

5.4

13.8

18.9

22.6

28.3

2

2

2

2

2

41.6

39.7

39.7

41.7

46.4

Saint Helena
Sao Tome and Principe
Senegal
Seychelles
Sierra Leone

51

75

103

136

173

43.6

53.4

62.2

69.0

74.0

2,932

3,995

5,450

7,524

10,269

38.9

40.3

42.4

46.5

52.5

35

41

47

54

62

49.3

51.0

55.3

61.1

66.6

1,345

1,501

2,241

3,134

4,384

32.9

35.5

38.4

42.8

49.0

145

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

Table 5
Urban Population and Urbanization by Country, 1990-2030
Urban Population (’000)
Country
Somalia
South Africa
Sudan
Swaziland

1990

2000

2010

2020

Level of urbanization (%)
2030

1990

2000

2010

2020

2030

1,956

2,458

3,505

5,268

7,851

29.7

33.2

37.4

43.0

49.9

19,121

25,528

31,155

35,060

39,032

52.0

56.9

61.7

66.6

71.3

7,211

11,661

17,322

24,804

33,267

26.6

33.4

40.1

47.4

54.5

198

244

257

307

400

22.9

22.6

21.4

22.3

26.2

Togo

1,182

1,917

2,945

4,261

5,795

30.1

36.5

43.4

50.5

57.3

Tunisia

4,760

5,996

6,980

8,096

9,115

57.9

63.4

67.3

71.2

75.2

Uganda

1,964

2,952

4,493

7,381

12,503

11.1

12.1

13.3

15.9

20.6

United Republic of Tanzania

4,807

7,614

11,883

18,945

29,190

18.9

22.3

26.4

31.8

38.7

190

264

434

606

704

86.2

83.9

81.8

83.9

85.9

Zambia

Western Sahara

3,117

3,643

4,733

6,584

9,340

39.4

34.8

35.7

38.9

44.7

Zimbabwe

3,033

4,205

4,837

6,839

9,086

29.0

33.8

38.3

43.9

50.7

Asia
Afghanistan

2,277

4,148

6,581

10,450

16,296

18.1

20.2

22.6

26.4

32.2

Armenia

2,390

1,989

1,984

2,087

2,186

67.4

64.7

64.2

65.7

69.0

Azerbaijan

3,876

4,158

4,639

5,332

6,044

53.7

51.2

51.9

54.2

58.6

Bahrain
Bangladesh
Bhutan
Brunei Darussalam
Cambodia
China
China, Hong Kong SAR
China, Macao SAR
Cyprus
Dem. People’s Republic of Korea
Georgia
India
Indonesia

434

574

715

852

984

88.1

88.4

88.6

89.4

90.6

22,908

33,208

46,149

62,886

83,408

19.8

23.6

28.1

33.9

41.0

90

143

246

348

451

16.4

25.4

34.7

42.4

50.0

169

237

308

379

450

65.8

71.1

75.7

79.3

82.3

1,221

2,157

3,027

4,214

5,870

12.6

16.9

20.1

23.8

29.2

301,995

453,029

635,839

786,761

905,449

26.4

35.8

47.0

55.0

61.9

5,677

6,667

7,069

7,701

8,185

99.5

100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

371

441

548

588

611

99.8

100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

454

540

619

705

797

66.8

68.6

70.3

72.7

75.7

11,760

13,581

14,446

15,413

16,633

58.4

59.4

60.2

62.1

65.7

3,005

2,498

2,225

2,177

2,218

55.0

52.6

52.7

54.7

58.7

220,260

288,430

364,459

463,328

590,091

25.5

27.7

30.0

33.9

39.7

54,252

86,219

102,960

122,257

145,776

30.6

42.0

44.3

48.1

53.7

Iran (Islamic Republic of)

31,958

42,952

53,120

63,596

71,767

56.3

64.2

70.8

75.9

79.8

Iraq

12,602

16,722

20,822

26,772

33,930

69.7

67.8

66.2

66.6

69.4

Israel

4,079

5,563

6,692

7,673

8,583

90.4

91.4

91.9

92.4

93.1

Japan

77,726

82,633

84,875

85,848

85,700

63.1

65.2

66.8

69.4

73.0

Jordan

2,350

3,798

5,083

5,998

7,063

72.2

78.3

78.5

79.8

82.0

Kazakhstan

9,301

8,417

9,217

10,417

11,525

56.3

56.3

58.5

62.3

66.8

Kuwait

2,100

2,188

3,001

3,637

4,218

98.0

98.2

98.4

98.6

98.7

Kyrgyzstan

1,660

1,744

1,918

2,202

2,625

37.8

35.2

34.5

35.7

40.1

649

1,187

2,136

3,381

4,699

15.4

22.0

33.2

44.2

53.1

Lao People’s Democratic Republic
Lebanon

2,472

3,244

3,712

4,065

4,374

83.1

86.0

87.2

88.6

90.0

Malaysia

9,014

14,424

20,146

25,128

28,999

49.8

62.0

72.2

78.5

82.2

Maldives

56

75

126

186

242

25.8

27.7

40.1

51.5

60.1

Mongolia

1,264

1,358

1,675

2,010

2,316

57.0

56.9

62.0

67.0

71.6

Myanmar

10,092

12,956

16,990

22,570

28,545

24.7

27.8

33.6

40.7

48.1

1,692

3,281

5,559

8,739

12,902

8.9

13.4

18.6

24.8

31.7

Nepal
Occupied Palestinian Territory

1,462

2,267

3,269

4,447

5,810

67.9

72.0

74.1

76.6

79.4

Oman

1,218

1,719

2,122

2,645

3,184

66.1

71.6

73.0

75.7

78.7

Pakistan

35,400

49,088

66,318

90,199

121,218

30.6

33.1

35.9

39.9

45.6

Philippines

30,333

37,283

45,781

57,657

72,555

48.6

48.0

48.9

52.6

58.3

146

Statistical Annex

Table 5
Urban Population and Urbanization by Country, 1990-2030
Urban Population (’000)
Country
Qatar

1990

2000

2010

Level of urbanization (%)

2020

2030

1990

2000

2010

2020

2030

431

586

1,445

1,679

1,891

92.2

94.9

95.8

96.5

96.9

Republic of Korea

31,740

36,967

40,235

42,362

43,086

73.8

79.6

83.0

85.6

87.7

Saudi Arabia

12,451

16,615

21,541

26,617

31,516

76.6

79.8

82.1

84.2

86.2

3,016

4,018

4,837

5,219

5,460

100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

Singapore
Sri Lanka

3,217

2,971

2,921

3,360

4,339

18.6

15.8

14.3

15.5

19.6

Syrian Arab Republic

6,224

8,577

12,545

15,948

19,976

48.9

51.9

55.7

60.2

65.4

Tajikistan

1,679

1,635

1,862

2,364

3,121

31.7

26.5

26.3

28.0

32.5

Thailand

16,675

19,417

23,142

27,800

33,624

29.4

31.1

34.0

38.9

45.8

Timor-Leste
Turkey

154

198

329

538

848

20.8

24.3

28.1

33.2

39.9

33,204

43,027

52,728

62,033

70,247

59.2

64.7

69.6

74.0

77.7

Turkmenistan

1,653

2,062

2,562

3,175

3,793

45.1

45.8

49.5

54.6

60.4

United Arab Emirates

1,476

2,599

3,956

4,915

5,821

79.1

80.3

84.1

86.8

88.8

Uzbekistan

8,241

9,273

10,075

11,789

14,500

40.2

37.4

36.2

37.8

42.7

13,418

19,263

27,046

36,269

46,585

20.3

24.5

30.4

37.0

44.2

2,577

4,776

7,714

12,082

17,844

20.9

26.3

31.8

38.2

45.3

Albania

1,198

1,280

1,645

2,027

2,301

36.4

41.7

51.9

60.7

67.4

Andorra

50

61

76

85

96

94.7

92.4

88.0

84.9

85.1

Viet Nam
Yemen

Europe

Austria

5,045

5,267

5,666

6,003

6,372

65.8

65.8

67.6

70.3

73.8

Belarus

6,769

7,030

7,162

7,219

7,070

66.0

69.9

74.7

79.2

82.6

Belgium

9,573

9,899

10,421

10,792

11,070

96.4

97.1

97.4

97.7

97.9

Bosnia and Herzegovina

1,691

1,597

1,828

2,028

2,170

39.2

43.2

48.6

55.2

61.7

Bulgaria

5,854

5,516

5,357

5,215

5,012

66.4

68.9

71.5

74.3

77.5

45

45

47

52

59

31.4

30.5

31.4

34.2

39.1

Croatia

Channel Islands

2,441

2,504

2,546

2,657

2,781

54.0

55.6

57.7

61.5

66.5

Czech Republic

7,750

7,565

7,656

7,929

8,202

75.2

74.0

73.5

75.0

78.0

Denmark

4,361

4,540

4,761

4,923

5,058

84.8

85.1

86.9

88.6

90.1

Estonia

1,115

951

931

942

955

71.1

69.4

69.5

70.7

73.4

Faeroe Islands
Finland

14

17

20

23

26

30.6

36.3

40.3

42.2

46.6

3,958

4,252

4,549

4,805

4,947

79.4

82.2

85.1

87.4

89.2

France

42,095

45,466

53,398

58,267

61,043

74.1

76.9

85.3

89.7

91.8

Germany

58,080

59,970

60,598

60,827

60,993

73.1

73.1

73.8

75.6

78.3
100.0

Gibraltar

28

29

31

32

31

100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

5,979

6,537

6,868

7,307

7,785

58.8

59.7

61.4

64.8

69.3

Holy See

1

1

1

1

1

100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

Hungary

Greece

6,824

6,596

6,791

7,011

7,180

65.8

64.6

68.1

71.8

75.5

Iceland

231

260

308

349

372

90.8

92.4

93.4

94.3

95.0

Ireland

2,000

2,250

2,842

3,370

3,889

56.9

59.1

61.9

65.5

69.8

36

40

41

41

43

51.7

51.8

50.6

51.2

53.9

38,032

38,395

41,083

42,840

44,395

66.7

67.2

68.4

70.9

74.6

1,844

1,616

1,517

1,471

1,453

69.3

68.1

67.7

68.4

70.9

Isle of Man
Italy
Latvia
Liechtenstein
Lithuania

5

5

5

6

7

16.9

15.1

14.3

15.0

18.0

2,499

2,345

2,181

2,096

2,080

67.6

67.0

67.0

68.5

71.5

Luxembourg

309

366

419

480

547

80.9

83.8

85.2

87.4

89.1

Malta

325

359

388

405

413

90.4

92.4

94.7

96.0

96.6

Monaco
Montenegro

29

32

33

34

35

100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

282

387

384

394

417

48.0

58.5

61.5

62.4

65.7

147

State of the World’s Cities 2012/2013

Table 5
Urban Population and Urbanization by Country, 1990-2030
Urban Population (’000)
Country
Netherlands

Level of urbanization (%)

1990

2000

2010

2020

2030

1990

2000

2010

2020

2030

10,270

12,222

13,799

14,824

15,501

68.7

76.8

82.9

86.5

88.6

Norway

3,052

3,411

3,856

4,297

4,700

72.0

76.1

79.4

82.6

85.2

Poland

23,351

23,719

23,187

23,135

23,481

61.3

61.7

61.0

61.7

64.9

Portugal

4,782

5,563

6,515

7,148

7,585

47.9

54.4

60.7

66.4

71.4

Republic of Moldova
Romania
Russian Federation

2,041

1,828

1,679

1,833

1,938

46.8

44.6

47.0

54.2

60.9

12,350

11,734

12,177

12,839

13,296

53.2

53.0

57.5

63.0

68.2

108,670

107,582

102,702

100,892

99,153

73.4

73.4

73.2

74.5

76.9

22

25

30

31

32

90.4

93.4

94.1

94.4

94.9

San Marino
Serbia

4,822

5,369

5,525

5,871

6,252

50.4

53.0

56.1

60.0

64.8

Slovakia

2,969

3,025

2,975

3,031

3,168

56.5

56.2

55.0

55.7

59.2

Slovenia
Spain
Sweden

971

1,008

1,002

1,035

1,110

50.4

50.8

49.5

50.4

54.5

29,266

30,707

35,073

38,542

40,774

75.4

76.3

77.4

79.4

81.9

7,112

7,445

7,870

8,333

8,799

83.1

84.0

84.7

85.8

87.3

Switzerland

4,914

5,268

5,591

5,922

6,336

73.2

73.3

73.6

75.2

77.8

TFYR Macedonia

1,103

1,194

1,212

1,260

1,331

57.8

59.4

59.3

61.6

66.0

Ukraine

34,435

32,814

31,252

30,860

30,243

66.8

67.1

68.8

71.9

75.3

United Kingdom

44,726

46,331

49,295

53,001

56,901

78.1

78.7

79.6

81.4

83.7
100.0

Latin America and the Caribbean
Anguilla
Antigua and Barbuda
Argentina
Aruba

8

11

15

18

19

100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

22

25

27

32

40

35.4

32.1

30.3

32.5

38.4

28,268

33,291

37,572

41,554

44,726

87.0

90.1

92.4

93.8

94.6

32

42

50

54

59

50.3

46.7

46.9

48.8

52.5

Bahamas

204

250

291

331

367

79.8

82.0

84.1

86.1

87.9

Barbados

85

97

114

134

151

32.7

38.3

44.5

51.1

57.9

Belize

90

120

164

213

268

47.5

47.8

52.2

56.9

62.3

Bolivia

3,707

5,143

6,675

8,265

9,799

55.6

61.8

66.5

71.0

75.2

110,565

141,416

169,098

187,104

197,874

73.9

81.2

86.5

89.5

91.1

6

8

10

11

14

37.8

39.4

41.0

45.2

51.6
100.0

Brazil
British Virgin Islands

26

40

57

61

65

100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

Chile

Cayman Islands

10,984

13,252

15,251

16,958

18,247

83.3

85.9

89.0

91.0

92.3

Colombia

22,670

28,666

34,758

40,800

46,357

68.3

72.1

75.1

78.0

81.0

Costa Rica

1,560

2,321

2,989

3,643

4,259

50.7

59.0

64.4

69.4

73.9

Cuba

7,767

8,382

8,429

8,462

8,550

73.4

75.6

75.2

75.6

77.6

47

46

45

47

50

67.7

67.2

67.2

69.4

73.1

Dominican Republic

Dominica

4,072

5,452

7,074

8,560

9,793

55.2

61.7

69.2

74.8

78.8

Ecuador

5,662

7,423

9,222

11,152

12,813

55.1

60.3

66.9

72.5

76.8

El Salvador

2,624

3,503

3,983

4,583

5,287

49.2

58.9

64.3

69.3

73.7

2

2

2

2

3

74.2

67.6

73.6

78.2

81.6

French Guiana

87

124

177

229

288

74.5

75.1

76.4

78.6

81.4

Grenada

32

37

41

48

55

33.4

35.9

39.3

44.5

51.2

Falkland Islands (Malvinas)

Guadeloupe
Guatemala
Guyana
Haiti

381

422

460

476

485

98.6

98.4

98.4

98.5

98.6

3,664

5,068

7,111

9,893

13,153

41.1

45.1

49.5

54.7

60.6

222

217

218

233

265

29.6

28.7

28.6

31.3

37.2

2,026

3,079

5,307

7,546

9,450

28.5

35.6

52.1

64.4

71.6

Honduras

1,983

2,832

3,930

5,263

6,656

40.5

45.5

51.6

57.6

63.4

Jamaica

1,169

1,330

1,420

1,521

1,660

49.4

51.8

52.0

53.7

57.8

Martinique
Mexico

310

345

362

370

376

86.3

89.7

89.0

89.1

90.0

59,566

74,372

86,113

96,558

105,300

71.4

74.7

77.8

80.7

83.3

148

Statistical Annex

Table 5
Urban Population and Urbanization by Country, 1990-2030
Urban Population (’000)
Country
Montserrat
Netherlands Antilles

1990

2000

2010

Level of urbanization (%)

2020

2030

1990

2000

2010

2020

2030

1

1

1

1

1

12.5

11.0

14.3

16.9

21.6

163

163

187

199

200

85.6

90.2

93.2

94.7

95.5

Nicaragua

2,166

2,792

3,337

4,077

4,860

52.3

54.7

57.3

61.0

65.8

Panama

1,300

1,941

2,624

3,233

3,751

53.9

65.8

74.8

80.3

83.6

Paraguay
Peru
Puerto Rico
Saint Kitts and Nevis

2,069

2,960

3,972

5,051

6,102

48.7

55.3

61.5

67.1

71.9

15,004

18,994

22,688

26,389

29,902

68.9

73.0

76.9

80.3

83.0

2,546

3,614

3,949

4,112

4,178

72.2

94.6

98.8

99.5

99.6

14

15

17

21

26

34.6

32.8

32.4

35.4

41.6

Saint Lucia

41

44

49

58

74

29.3

28.0

28.0

30.6

36.1

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines

44

49

54

60

68

41.4

45.2

49.3

54.6

60.7

Suriname

244

303

364

418

466

60.0

64.9

69.4

73.5

77.3

Trinidad and Tobago

104

140

186

250

328

8.5

10.8

13.9

18.1

23.7

9

16

31

35

38

74.3

84.6

93.3

96.5

97.4

Turks and Caicos Islands
United States Virgin Islands
Uruguay
Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)

91

101

104

102

96

87.7

92.6

95.3

96.5

97.0

2,767

3,033

3,119

3,264

3,382

89.0

91.3

92.5

93.4

94.3

16,638

21,940

27,113

31,755

35,588

84.3

89.9

93.4

95.0

95.8
100.0

Northern America
Bermuda
Canada
Greenland
Saint Pierre and Miquelon
United States of America

60

63

65

66

66

100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

21,214

24,389

27,309

30,426

33,680

76.6

79.5

80.6

82.0

84.0

44

46

48

49

49

79.7

81.6

84.2

86.5

88.4

6

6

5

6

6

88.9

89.1

90.6

91.8

92.8

191,914

227,651

261,375

293,732

321,698

75.3

79.1

82.3

84.9

87.0

Oceania
American Samoa
Australia
Cook Islands
Fiji

38

51

64

76

87

80.9

88.8

93.0

94.8

95.6

14,596

16,710

19,169

21,459

23,566

85.4

87.2

89.1

90.6

91.9

10

11

15

17

19

57.7

65.2

75.3

81.4

84.9

301

384

443

501

566

41.6

47.9

51.9

56.4

61.7

French Polynesia

109

124

140

160

186

55.9

52.4

51.4

52.7

56.6

Guam

122

144

168

188

208

90.8

93.1

93.2

93.5

94.2

Kiribati

25

36

44

54

67

35.0

43.0

43.9

46.5

51.7

Marshall Islands

31

36

45

56

65

65.1

68.4

71.8

75.3

78.8

Micronesia (Fed. States of)

25

24

25

29

38

25.8

22.3

22.7

25.1

30.3

9

10

10

11

11

100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

Nauru
New Caledonia

102

127

146

169

200

59.5

59.2

57.4

58.5

62.7

2,869

3,314

3,710

4,058

4,382

84.7

85.7

86.2

86.9

88.1

1

1

1

1

1

30.9

33.1

37.5

43.0

49.4

Northern Mariana Islands

39

62

81

96

111

89.7

90.2

91.3

92.4

93.3

Palau

10

13

17

20

23

69.6

70.0

83.4

89.6

92.0

619

711

863

1,194

1,828

15.0

13.2

12.5

14.1

18.2

New Zealand
Niue

Papua New Guinea
Pitcairn

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Samoa

34

39

36

38

46

21.2

22.0

20.2

20.5

24.0
29.2

Solomon Islands

43

65

99

152

230

13.7

15.7

18.6

23.0

Tokelau

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Tonga

21

23

24

28

35

22.7

23.0

23.4

25.6

30.4

Tuvalu

4

4

5

6

7

40.7

46.0

50.4

55.6

61.5

Vanuatu

28

41

63

95

140

18.7

21.7

25.6

31.0

38.0

Wallis and Futuna Islands

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Source: United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Population Division (2010) World Urbanization Prospects: The 2009 Revision, United Nations, New York.

149

The Report maps out major policy steps to promote a new type of city – the city of the 21st century – that
is a ‘good’, people-centred city. One that is capable of integrating the tangible and more intangible aspects
of prosperity, and in the process shedding off the inefficient, unsustainable forms and functionalities of the
city of the previous century. By doing this, UN-Habitat plays a pivotal role in ensuring that urban planning,
legal, regulatory and institutional frameworks become instruments of prosperity and well-being.

United Nations Human Settlements
Programme (UN-HABITAT)
P.O. Box 30030, Nairobi, Kenya
Tel: +254 20 7621 234
Fax: +254 20 7624 266/7

EN
VIR
ON
M

F LIF E
TY O

A LI

ITY

The Report advocates for the need of cities to enhance the public realm, expand public goods and
consolidate rights to the ‘commons’ for all as a way to expand prosperity. This comes in response to
the observed trend of enclosing or restricting these goods and commons in enclaves of prosperity, or
depleting them through unsustainable use.

PROSPERITY

C TIV

What this new edition of State of the World’s Cities shows is that prosperity for all has been
compromised by a narrow focus on economic growth. UN-Habitat suggests a fresh approach to
prosperity beyond the solely economic emphasis, including other vital dimensions such as quality of
life, adequate infrastructures, equity and environmental sustainability. The Report proposes a new
tool – the City Prosperity Index – together with a conceptual matrix, the Wheel of Prosperity, both of
which are meant to assist decision makers to design clear policy interventions.

I

PROD U

However, when prosperity is restricted to some groups, when it is used to pursue specific interests, or
when it is a justification for financial gains for the few to the detriment of the majority, the city becomes
the arena where the right to shared prosperity is claimed and fought for. As people in the latter part
of 2011 gathered in Cairo’s Tahrir Square, in Madrid’s Puerta del Sol, in front of London’s St Paul’s
cathedral, or in New York’s Zuccotti Park, they were not only demanding more equality and inclusion;
they were also expressing the need for prosperity to be shared across all segments of society.

EQUI
TY A
ND
SO
CI
AL

QU

The City is the Home of Prosperity. It is the place where human beings find satisfaction of basic needs
and access to essential public goods. The city is also where ambitions, aspirations and other material
and immaterial aspects of life are realized, providing contentment and happiness. It is a locus at
which e prospects of prosperity and individual and collective well-being can be increased.

ITY
ABIL
N
I
TA
US
S
L
TA
N
E

N
SIO
LU
NC

Prosperity of Cities

STATE OF THE WORLD’S CITIES 2012/2013 Prosperity of Cities

STATE OF THE
WORLD’S CITIES
2012/2013

IN F R A S T R U C T U R E

STATE OF THE
WORLD’S CITIES
2012/2013
Prosperity of Cities

World Urban
Forum Edition

