2011

world development report

Conflict, Security, and Development

2011

world development report

Conflict, Security,
and Development

2011

world development report

Conflict, Security,
and Development

© 2011 The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development / The World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washington DC 20433
Telephone: 202-473-1000
Internet: www.worldbank.org
All rights reserved
1 2 3 4 13 12 11 10
This volume is a product of the staff of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development / The World Bank. The findings, interpretations, and conclusions expressed in this
volume do not necessarily reflect the views of the Executive Directors of The World Bank or
the governments they represent.
The World Bank does not guarantee the accuracy of the data included in this work. The
boundaries, colors, denominations, and other information shown on any map in this work
do not imply any judgement on the part of The World Bank concerning the legal status of any
territory or the endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
Rights and Permissions
The material in this publication is copyrighted. Copying and/or transmitting portions or all
of this work without permission may be a violation of applicable law. The International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development / The World Bank encourages dissemination of its work
and will normally grant permission to reproduce portions of the work promptly.
For permission to photocopy or reprint any part of this work, please send a request with
complete information to the Copyright Clearance Center Inc., 222 Rosewood Drive, Danvers, MA 01923, USA; telephone: 978-750-8400; fax: 978-750-4470; Internet: www.copyright.
com.
All other queries on rights and licenses, including subsidiary rights, should be addressed
to the Office of the Publisher, The World Bank, 1818 H Street NW, Washington, DC 20433,
USA; fax: 202-522-2422; e-mail: pubrights@worldbank.org.
Softcover
ISBN: 978-0-8213-8439-8
ISSN: 0163-5085
eISBN: 978-0-8213-8440-4
DOI: 10.1596/978-0-8213-8439-8
Hardcover
ISBN: 978-0-8213-8500-5
ISSN: 0163-5085
DOI: 10.1596/978-0-8213-8500-5
Cover design: Heads of State
Photo credits: Overview Picasso/Corbis Images; Chapter 1 Thomas Dworzak/Magnum Photos; Chapter 2 Christopher Anderson/Magnum Photos; Chapter 3 Jonas Bendiksen/Magnum
Photos; Chapter 4 Graeme Williams/Panos; Chapter 5 Christopher Furlong/Getty Images;
Chapter 6 Gulbuddin Elham/Aina Photo; Chapter 7 Marco Vernaschi/Pulitzer Center; Chapter 8 Ron Haviv/VII/Corbis; Chapter 9 Werner Bischof/Magnum Photos

Contents

Foreword
xi
Acknowledgments
xiii
Glossary
xv
Methodological Note
xix
Abbreviations and Data Notes

Overview
Preamble

xxiii

1
1

Part 1: The Challenge of Repeated Cycles of Violence
21st-century conflict and violence are a development problem that does not fit the
20th-century mold
2
Vicious cycles of conflict: When security, justice, and employment stresses meet
weak institutions
6

Part 2: A Roadmap for Breaking Cycles of Violence at the Country
Level
Restoring confidence and transforming the institutions that provide citizen
security, justice, and jobs
8
Practical policy and program tools for country actors
16

Part 3: Reducing the Risks of Violence—Directions for
International Policy
Track 1: Providing specialized assistance for prevention through citizen security,
justice, and jobs
28
Track 2: Transforming procedures and risk and results management in
international agencies
31
Track 3: Acting regionally and globally to reduce external stresses on fragile
states
34
Track 4: Marshaling support from lower-, middle-, and higher-income countries
and global and regional institutions to reflect the changing landscape of
international policy and assistance
35
Notes
39

WDR Framework and Structure

45

v

vi

CONTENTS

Part 1: The Challenge

49

1 Repeated Violence Threatens Development

51

Interstate and civil wars have declined since peaking in the early 1990s
Modern violence comes in various forms and repeated cycles
The developmental consequences of violence are severe
Repeated violence is a shared challenge
Notes

53

58

66

68

2 Vulnerability to Violence

73

Multiple stresses raise the risks of violence

73

The vicious cycle of weak institutional legitimacy and violence
Notes

51

84

93

Part 2: Lessons from National and International
Responses
97
3 From violence to resilience: Restoring confidence and
transforming institutions
99
Why transforming institutions is so difficult
Escaping violence, developing resilience
Do not expect too much, too soon
Adapt to different contexts
Notes

99
103

108

110

116

4 Restoring confidence: Moving away from the brink
Drawing on lessons from national reformers
Inclusive-enough coalitions
Delivering early results
Notes

119

119

120
128

139

5 Transforming institutions to deliver citizen security, justice,
and jobs
145
Pacing and sequencing institutional transformation
Citizen security
Justice
Jobs

148

153
157

What to do systematically but gradually

164

Institutional transformation as a continuous process
Notes

145

174

170

Contents

6 International support to building confidence and
transforming institutions
181
The promise and peril of outside support
181
The evolving international architecture
181
Building confidence
185
Supporting institutional transformation
193
Dual accountability and managing the risks of action
Lessons of international engagement
205
Notes
208

200

7 International action to mitigate external stresses
External security stresses
218
External economic stresses
226
Resource stresses
229
Between the global and the national: Regional stresses, regional support
Notes
240

Part 3: Practical Options and Recommendations
8 Practical country directions and options

217

233

245

247

Principles and options, not recipes
247
Basic principles and country-specific frameworks for sustained violence
prevention and recovery
247
Practical approaches to confidence-building
250
Program approaches to link early results to transforming institutions
255
External factors: Reducing external stresses and mobilizing external support
262
Notes
266

9 New directions for international support

269

Track 1: Preventing repeated cycles of violence by investing in citizen security,
justice, and jobs
270
Track 2: Reforming internal agency procedures
276
Track 3: Reducing external stresses: New regional and global action
281
Track 4: Marshaling support from lower-, middle-, and higher-income countries
and from global and regional institutions
286
A continuing global learning platform
288
Notes
291

Bibliographical Note
295
References
297
Selected Indicators
335
Selected World Development Indicators
Index
365

341

vii

viii

CONTENTS

Boxes
1.1 Interstate and civil war—1900 to the present

48

4.9 Nepal: Bringing others in—supplementing government
capacity in education
135

1.2 Instability, political violence, and drug trafficking in
West Africa
56

4.10 Nigeria: Strengths and risks of nongovernment capacity in
the security sector—the Bakassi Boys
136

1.3 Violent crime and insecurity exact high economic
costs
65

5.1 China’s approach to gradually piloting economic
reform
146

2.1 Economic and political theories of violence and this
Report
75

5.2 It takes time to build institutions. First things first—citizen
security, justice, and jobs
147

2.2 The stress posed by transnational organized crime and
drug trafficking
76
2.3 Spillover of conflicts in Central Africa

5.3 Coordinated political, security, and development responses to
violence—Lessons from urban, subnational, and organized
criminal violence in Latin America
148

77

2.4 External stresses: The deportation of the maras

78

5.4 Colombia’s establishment of civilian oversight and the
Democratic Security Policy
150

2.5 Does unemployment cause violence? Arguments for and
against
79
2.6 Do similar economic factors create risks for political conflict
and extreme levels of violent organized crime?
80
2.7 People expect fairness and punish inequity

82

2.8 Human rights abuses and future conflict risk

5.6 Innovative court solutions in Latin America
5.7 Experiences in countering corruption

82

2.9 Quantitative research on institutions and violence risk
2.10 Fragility, weak institutions, governance, and violence

5.5 Reform of the Haiti police force, even in difficult
circumstances
153

85
87

158

5.8 Value chain development in Kosovo and Rwanda

159

5.9 Technically less than perfect, but robust to circumstances:
Best-fit electricity provision in Lebanon
160

3.1 Unrealistic expectations in fragile states are hurdles to
progress
100

5.10 Economic empowerment of women: Women’s
Empowerment Program in Nepal
163

3.2 Premature load-bearing

5.11 Pacing institutional transformation

101

155

165

3.3 Violence can increase during fast institutional
transformations
102

5.12 Devolution and decentralization can help manage conflict,
but are better done gradually
167

3.4 The WDR framework and theories of violence
prevention
105

5.13 Development approaches can empower women in the most
fragile environments
170

3.5 “Best-fit” reforms

107

6.1 The benefits of international support: Mozambique

3.6 Fragile states and the long time to acquire threshold
institutional capability
109
3.7 Optimism or wishful thinking?

110

182

6.2 Investing in long-term mediation as a cost-effective
approach to preventing and responding to
violence
187

3.8 Spectrum of situation-specific challenges and
opportunities
111

6.3 Heading off escalation: Dialogue and compromise in Ghana
in 2003–04
189

3.9 Lessons of the South African transition: Restoring confidence
and transforming institutions
115

6.4 International-national institutional partnerships—CICIG
in Guatemala
190

4.1 “All politics is local.”

6.5 Quick action? Ghana helps restore electricity in
Liberia
191

122

4.2 Gang-related homicides in Los Angeles

123

4.3 Signals and commitments for economic management:
GEMAP in Liberia
126

6.6 The Aga Khan Development Network: Local knowledge,
longevity, realistic expectations
194

4.4 Pakistan: Using the budget to signal change

6.7 Stop-go aid: Volatility in selected fragile states

128

195

4.5 Building early confidence in Haiti—Challenges and
reflections
129

6.8 Publishing cost estimates as best practice? Trade-offs between
transparency and collusion
198

4.6 Only a few visible results are needed to restore confidence:
Examples from civil war, organized criminal, and subnational
violence
130

6.9 Multidonor trust funds: Afghanistan and Southern
Sudan
203

4.7 Different sectors, core goals

132

4.8 Community-driven development strengthens state-society
relations in Afghanistan
133

6.10 Uneven international support to violence prevention and
recovery in West Africa
208
7.1 The Multi-Country Demobilization and Reintegration
Program: Addressing regional violence
219

ix

Contents

7.2 The Kimberley Process for “conflict diamonds”
7.3 The economics of cocaine trafficking

221

8.1 Confidence-building in South Africa, 1990–94, and
Colombia, 2002 onward
254

222

8.2 Adapting community-level program design to country
context: Afghanistan, Burundi, Cambodia, Colombia,
Indonesia, Nepal, and Rwanda
261

7.4 Multiple interdiction efforts: Cocaine in the
Americas
223
7.5 Expert viewpoints: For and against regulated drug
legalization to reduce violence
224

8.3 Anti-corruption approaches in Liberia and
Mozambique
262

7.6 Partnering with client countries to curb corruption in
World Bank–funded projects
227

8.4 Bilateral cooperation against corruption and money
laundering in Haiti and Nigeria
264

7.7 The Australian Crime Commission’s high-risk money
movement strategy
229

8.5 Phasing the transition from international humanitarian aid
to local institutions: Afghanistan and Timor-Leste
266

7.8 Growing regional and global approaches to food
insecurity
230
7.9 Global approaches to land

9.1 Preventing violence: Prioritizing investment in citizen
security and justice reforms
273

232

9.2 Flexible peacekeeping arrangements

7.10 The role of regional institutions and initiatives in normsetting and violence prevention
234
7.11 Pooling services regionally

281

9.3 Preventing violence: Prioritizing investment in citizen
security and justice reforms
282

236

7.12 Early European measures to create shared economic interests
in peace
237

9.4 The role of regional institutions and initiatives in normsetting and violence prevention
289

Features
Overview

Chapters

1 How violence is changing

3

2 High stresses and weak institutions = risks of violence

9

1 The interlinked and evolving nature of modern organized
violence
67

3 Country experiences of confidence-building and
transforming institutions for citizen security, justice, and
jobs
14

2 Nepal: Stresses, institutions, violence, and legitimacy

4 Core tools

5 Violence in Central America—Depth of institutional
transformation matters
172

3 Restoring security in Colombia

5 Adapting community-level program design to country
context
24

7 Central Asia: External pressures and external
assistance
238

32

8 Regional initiatives and norms and standards

137

6 A tale of two assistance programs—Liberia and GuineaBissau
206

6 Patterns of international assistance to violence-affected
countries
27
7 Internal agency reform

113

4 Indonesia: Restoring confidence in Aceh

17

90

38

Figures
F1.1 Deaths from civil wars are declining

3

F6.2 Aid volatility increases with duration of violence

F1.2 Organized criminal violence threatens peace processes

4

F1.3 The gap in poverty is widening between countries affected by
violence and others
4
F2.1 What are citizens’ views on the drivers of conflict?

9

F2.2 What drives people to join rebel movement and gangs?

9

2.1 Moving from fragility and violence to institutional resilience
in citizen security, justice, and jobs
12
3.1 The dual accountability dilemma for donors engaged in
fragile and conflict environments
26
F6.1 Uneven international support in West Africa—Post-conflict
trumps prevention
27

F6.3 Stop-go aid: Volatility in selected fragile states

27
27

3.2 Combined action across the security, development, and
humanitarian spheres for external actors to support national
institutional transformations
29
1.1 Gangs and trafficking are global concerns
1.2 Victims of terrorism

53

55

1.3 Criminal violence in Central America is on the rise despite
political peace
58
1.4 Violence creates suffering for families in myriad ways:
Responses to survey on experiences of violence on immediate
family member in last three years
59

x

CONTENTS

1.5 Widening gap in poverty between countries affected by
violence and those not experiencing violence
60

2.3 The vicious cycle of violence, elite pacts, weak institutions—
and vulnerability to repeated violence
89

1.6 Violence is the main constraint to meeting the MDGs

62

1.7 The widening gap in infant mortality rates between countries
affected by violence and others
63
1.8 Effects of violence on growth are dramatic and longlasting
64

3.1 WDR Framework: Repeated cycles of action to bolster
institutional resilience
103
6.1 Uneven international support in West Africa—Post-conflict
trumps prevention
184
6.2 International support to nation-states—The dual
accountability dilemma
201

2.1 What drives people to join ideological militant
movements
83

9.1 Adapting the modality of assistance to risk

278

2.2 Food price protests and associated violence are concentrated
in fragile states
86

Maps
Trafficking and violence during conflicts in West Africa,
1990–2009
56

The current (fragmented) state of international cooperation
against drugs in the Americas
223

Cross-border political violence spreads across Central
Africa
77
The shifting epicenter of political violence in Nepal

7.1 Water availability, fragility, and the potential for riparian
conflict in Africa
231
91

7.2 Sub-Saharan Africa’s regional infrastructure challenge in
fragile states
235

Tables
F1.1 Violence often recurs

3

1.1 Security, economic, and political stresses

7.1 To defeat trafficking in commodities, pay attention to
physical and market characteristics of the products
220

7

2.1 Fastest progress in institutional transformation—An estimate
of realistic ranges
11

7.2 Shared administration can help fragile and conflict-affected
states provide better quality public services
236

1.1 Country case examples of multiple forms of violence

8.1 Situation-specific challenge and opportunities

1.2 Countries often relapse into conflict

54

8.2 Core tools for restoring confidence

58

1.3 The gender-disaggregated impacts of violent conflict

61

2 Officer-level entry into Nepal government service by caste/
ethnic group (percentages)
91
2.1 Security, economic, and political stresses

74

3 Nepal’s multiple forms of violence, 1960–present

92

249

251

9.1 International tools to link confidence-building and
institutional transformation across the political, security,
development, and humanitarian spheres
272
9.2 Compelling and feasible short-term indicators

279

Foreword

In 1944, delegates from 45 countries gathered at Bretton Woods to consider the economic
causes of the World War that was then still raging, and how to secure the peace. They agreed
to create the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), the original
institution of what has become the World Bank Group. As the delegates noted, “Programs of
reconstruction and development will speed economic progress everywhere, will aid political
stability and foster peace.” The IBRD approved its first loan to France in 1947 to aid in the
rebuilding of that country.
Over 60 years later, the “R” in IBRD has a new meaning: reconstructing Afghanistan, Bosnia, Haiti, Liberia, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Southern Sudan, and other lands of conflict or
broken states. Paul Collier’s book, The Bottom Billion, highlighted the recurrent cycles of weak
governance, poverty, and violence that have plagued these lands. Not one low-income country coping with these problems has yet achieved a single Millennium Development Goal.
And the problems of fragile states spread easily: They drag down neighbors with violence
that overflows borders, because conflicts feed on narcotics, piracy, and gender violence, and
leave refugees and broken infrastructure in their wake. Their territories can become breeding
grounds for far-reaching networks of violent radicals and organized crime.
In 2008, I gave a speech on “Securing Development” to the International Institute for Strategic Studies. I chose the forum to emphasize the interconnections among security, governance, and development, and to make the point that the separate disciplines are not well
integrated to address the inter-related problems. I outlined the challenge: bringing security
and development together to put down roots deep enough to break the cycles of fragility and
conflict.
As we are now seeing again in the Middle East and North Africa, violence in the 21st century differs from 20th-century patterns of interstate conflict and methods of addressing them.
Stove-piped government agencies have been ill-suited to cope, even when national interests or
values prompt political leaders to act. Low incomes, poverty, unemployment, income shocks
such as those sparked by volatility in food prices, rapid urbanization, and inequality between
groups all increase the risks of violence. External stresses, such as trafficking and illicit financial flows, can add to these risks.
The 2011 World Development Report looks across disciplines and experiences drawn from
around the world to offer some ideas and practical recommendations on how to move beyond
conflict and fragility and secure development. The key messages are important for all countries—low, middle, and high income—as well as for regional and global institutions:
First, institutional legitimacy is the key to stability. When state institutions do not adequately
protect citizens, guard against corruption, or provide access to justice; when markets do not
provide job opportunities; or when communities have lost social cohesion—the likelihood

xi

xii

F O R E WO R D

of violent conflict increases. At the earliest stages, countries often need to restore public confidence in basic collective action even before rudimentary institutions can be transformed.
Early wins—actions that can generate quick, tangible results—are critical.
Second, investing in citizen security, justice, and jobs is essential to reducing violence. But
there are major structural gaps in our collective capabilities to support these areas. There
are places where fragile states can seek help to build an army, but we do not yet have similar
resources for building police forces or corrections systems. We need to put greater emphasis
on early projects to create jobs, especially through the private sector. The Report provides
insight into the importance of the involvement of women in political coalitions, security and
justice reform, and economic empowerment.
Third, confronting this challenge effectively means that institutions need to change. International agencies and partners from other countries must adapt procedures so they can respond
with agility and speed, a longer-term perspective, and greater staying power. Assistance needs
to be integrated and coordinated; multi-donor trust funds have proven useful in accomplishing these aims while lessening the burdens of new governments with thin capacity. We need
a better handoff between humanitarian and development agencies. And we need to accept a
higher level of risk: If legislatures and inspectors expect only the upside, and just pillory the
failures, institutions will steer away from the most difficult problems and strangle themselves
with procedures and committees to avoid responsibility. This Report suggests some specific
actions and ways of measuring results.
Fourth, we need to adopt a layered approach. Some problems can be addressed at the country level, but others need to be addressed at a regional level, such as developing markets that
integrate insecure areas and pooling resources for building capacity. Some actions are needed
at a global level, such as building new capacities to support justice reform and the creation of
jobs; forging partnerships between producer and consumer countries to stem illegal trafficking; and acting to reduce the stresses caused by food price volatility.
Fifth, in adopting these approaches, we need to be aware that the global landscape is changing. Regional institutions and middle income countries are playing a larger role. This means
we should pay more attention to south-south and south-north exchanges, and to the recent
transition experiences of middle income countries.
The stakes are high. A civil conflict costs the average developing country roughly 30 years
of GDP growth, and countries in protracted crisis can fall over 20 percentage points behind in
overcoming poverty. Finding effective ways to help societies escape new outbursts or repeated
cycles of violence is critical for global security and global development—but doing so requires
a fundamental rethinking, including how we assess and manage risk.
Any such changes must be based on a clear roadmap, and on strong incentives. I hope this
Report will help others and ourselves in sketching such a roadmap.

Robert B. Zoellick
President
The World Bank Group

Acknowledgments

This Report has been prepared by a core team led by Sarah Cliffe and Nigel Roberts and
comprising Erik Alda, David Andersson, Kenneth Anye, Holly Benner, Natalia Cieslik, Ivan
Crouzel, Markus Kostner, Daniel Maree, Nicholas Marwell, Gary Milante, Stephen Ndegwa,
Kyle Peters, Nadia Selim, Pia Simonsen, Nicholas van Praag, Suranjan Weeraratne, and Nikolas Win Myint. Bruce Jones served as a Senior External Advisor to the team and made major
contributions as did James Fearon, Jack Goldstone, and Lant Pritchett. Markus Kostner acted
as Co-Director during part of the Report’s preparation.
Bruce Ross-Larson was the principal editor.
World Development Report 2011 is co-sponsored by Development Economics (DEC) and
the Operations Policy and Country Services (OPC). The work was conducted under the general guidance of Justin Yifu Lin in DEC and Jeffrey Gutman and Joachim von Amsberg in
OPC. Caroline Anstey, Paul Birmingham, Hassan Cisse, Shahrokh Fardoust, Varun Gauri,
Faris Hadad-Zervos, Ann Harrison, Karla Hoff, Phillip Keefer, Anne-Marie Leroy, Rui Manuel
De Almeida Coutinho, Alastair McKechnie, Vikram Raghavan, and Deborah Wetzel also provided valuable guidance. The WDR team extends a special thank you to the World Bank’s
Fragile and Conflict-Affected Countries Group (OPCFC) and the Global Expert Team on
Fragile and Conflict-Affected Countries (FCS GET) for their extensive inputs and feedback
throughout the WDR development process.
An Advisory Council comprised of Madeleine Albright, Louise Arbour, Lakhdar Brahimi,
Mohamed Ibn Chambas, Paul Collier, Nitin Desai, Carlos Alberto dos Santos Cruz, Martin Griffiths, Mohamed “Mo” Ibrahim, H.E. Paul Kagame, Ramtane Lamamra, Shivshankar
Menon, Louis Michel, Jorge Montaño, Jay Naidoo, Kenzo Oshima, Surin Pitsuwan, Zeid Ra’ad
Al-Hussein, Marta Lucía Ramírez de Rincón, H.E. Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, Dmitri Trenin, Wu
Jianmin, and George Yeo provided extensive and excellent advice.
World Bank President Robert B. Zoellick provided guidance and comments.
Many others inside and outside the World Bank contributed with comments and inputs.
The Development Data Group contributed to the data appendix and was responsible for the
Selected World Development Indicators.
The team benefitted greatly from a wide range of consultations. Meetings were held in
Afghanistan, Austria, Australia, Belgium, Canada, China, Colombia, the Democratic Republic
of the Congo, Denmark, Egypt, Ethiopia, France, Germany, Haiti, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Italy,
Japan, Kenya, Lebanon, Mali, Mexico, Nepal, the Netherlands, Norway, Pakistan, Rwanda,
Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Spain, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Timor-Leste, the United
Kingdom, the United States, West Bank and Gaza, and Yemen. The team wishes to thank
participants in these workshops, videoconferences, and online discussions, which included
policy makers, government officials, and representatives of nongovernmental, civil society
and private sector organizations.
The team would like to acknowledge the generous support of the African Union, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, the European Union, the Government of Australia, the

xiii

xiv

AC K N OW L E D G M E N T S

Government of Canada, the Government of China, the Government of Denmark, the Government of Finland, the Government of Germany, the Government of Japan, the Government
of Mexico, the Government of the Netherlands, the Government of Norway, the Government
of Sweden, the Government of Switzerland, the Government of the United Kingdom, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, and the United Nations.
The team also wishes to acknowledge the tireless support of the WDR Production Team:
Jessica Ardinoto, Nga (Ty) Lopez, Bertha Medina, Brónagh Murphy, and Jason Victor. The
resource management support of Irina Sergeeva and Sonia Joseph is also much appreciated as well as the excellent production, publishing, translation, and dissemination support
provided by the Office of the Publisher and GSD Translation Services, with special thanks
to Mary Fisk, Stephen McGroarty, Nancy Lammers, Santiago Pombo-Bejarano, Denise
Bergeron, Janet Sasser, Jose de Buerba, Mario Trubiano, Alison Reeves, Mayya Revzina, Cecile
Jannotin, and Hector Hernaez for their contributions. Debra Naylor and Gerry Quinn
provided design and graphics expertise. We also thank Ivar Cederholm, Jean-Pierre
Djomalieu, Sharon Faulkner, Vivian Hon, Gytis Kanchas, Rajvinder (Dolly) Kaur, Alexander Kent, Esabel Khoury, Nacer Megherbi, Thyra Nast, Jimmy Olazo, Nadia Piffaretti,
Carol Pineau, Jean Gray Ponchamni, Swati Priyadarshini, Janice Rowe-Barnwell, Merrell
Tuck-Primdahl, and Constance Wilhel for their kind support to the team. Many thanks as
well to Jeffrey Lecksell for expert production of map graphics. We appreciate the efforts of
the World Bank’s New York Office, including Dominique Bichara and Tania Meyer, as well as
colleagues who assisted with WDR consultations worldwide—including those in the World
Bank offices in Afghanistan, Belgium, China, Colombia, the Democratic Republic of the Congo,
Egypt, Ethiopia, Haiti, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Italy, Japan, Kenya, Lebanon, Mali, Mexico, Nepal,
Pakistan, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Sudan, Timor-Leste, West Bank and Gaza,
and Yemen.

Glossary

Organized violence—the use or threat of physical force by groups. Includes state actions
against other states or against civilians, civil wars, electoral violence between opposing sides,
communal conflicts based on regional, ethnic, religious or other group identities or competing economic interests, gang-based violence and organized crime and international nonstate
armed movements with ideological aims. While an important topic for development, we do
not cover domestic or interpersonal violence. At times we refer to violence or conflict as a
short-hand for organized violence, understood in these terms. Many countries address certain
forms of violence, such as terrorist attacks by nonstate armed movements, as matters that are
subject to their criminal laws.
Repeated cycles of violence—Countries or subnational areas that have seen more than one
episode of organized violence for 20–30 years.
Stresses—The political, social, security, or economic risks that correlate with organized violence. Violence is more likely when a combination of stresses operate in an environment
characterized by weak institutions. Stresses can be internal—within the potential capacity of
an individual state to control—or external, emanating from regional or global dynamics.
Confidence—Trust between groups of citizens who have been divided by violence, between
citizens and the state, and between the state and other stakeholders (neighbors, international
partners, investors).
Expectations—The way people make judgments about the future and how it will affect them,
their families, and their communities. In situations where a track record of violence has created low trust, both excessively low and excessively high expectations can create problems for
government policy.
Elite pacts—Formal or informal agreements by the holders of political, military, or economic
power. These agreements, often enforced through coercion and patronage, are typically “personalized,” based on individual agreements. Throughout history the key motivating factor in
forming an elite pact has been the wish to contain violence and to secure the property and
economic interests and opportunities of pact members. The Report argues that elite pacts
can provide short term security but that violence often recurs unless the pact broadens and is
accompanied by institutional transformation.

xv

xvi

G LO S S A RY

Institutions—The formal and informal “rules of the game.” They include formal rules, written
laws, organizations, informal norms of behavior and shared beliefs—and the organizational
forms that exist to implement and enforce these norms (both state and nonstate organizations). Institutions shape the interests, incentives, and behaviors that can facilitate violence.
Unlike elite pacts, institutions are impersonal—they continue to function irrespective of the
presence of particular leaders, and thus provide greater guarantees of sustained resilience to
violence. Institutions operate at all levels of society—local, national, regional, and global.
Fragility and fragile situations—Periods when states or institutions lack the capacity, accountability, or legitimacy to mediate relations between citizen groups and between citizens and the
state, making them vulnerable to violence. Research for the Report reinforces the close link
between institutional fragility and the risk of conflict.
Legitimacy—Normatively, this term denotes a broad-based belief that social, economic, or
political arrangements and outcomes are proper and just. The concept is typically applied to
institutions. Legitimacy is acquired by building trust and confidence among various parties.
Forms of legitimacy include process legitimacy (which relates to the way in which decisions
are made), performance legitimacy (which relates to action, including the delivery of public
goods), and international legitimacy (which relates to the discharge of values and responsibilities that international law view as the responsibility of states).
Capacity—The ability of institutions to carry out their core functions efficiently and effectively. When states lack this capacity, they cannot mitigate stresses that might induce organized
violence.
Accountability—The ability of institutions to be responsive to citizens, including abiding by
their aggregated preferences, disclosing necessary information, permitting citizen participation in decision-making, and allowing for citizen sanction of public officials on the basis of
publicly recognized norms and procedures.
Citizen security—Both freedom from physical violence and freedom from fear of violence.
Applied to the lives of all members of a society (whether nationals of the country or otherwise), it encompasses security at home, in the workplace, and in political, social, and economic
interactions with the state and other members of society. Similar to human security, “citizen
security” places people at the center of efforts to prevent and recover from violence.
Justice and inclusion—The Report uses justice in two ways. The first use refers to the broadly
held notion of fairness. While this varies in different societies, it is a universally identifiable concept and carries the notion of fair process and due outcomes in the distribution of
political power, resources, opportunities, and sanctions. The second use is more specific: the
institutions that are central to resolving conflicts arising over alleged violations or different
interpretations of the rules that societies create to govern members’ behavior; and that, as
a consequence, are central to strengthening the normative framework (laws and rules) that
shapes public and private actions. This includes the elements of the justice system most critical
to preventing or transitioning out of violence: core criminal justice functions—the ability of
the police, courts, and penal system to fairly investigate, prosecute and punish acts linked to
organized violence—and institutions required to address underlying disputes that contribute
to violence (for example, institutions that deal with land and property dispute resolution).

Glossary

Transition moments—Events that make new efforts to prevent or recover from violence possible. These can involve space for deep and wide-ranging change (for example, the end of a
war, a deep national crisis, a change in government after one party has been in power many
years) or more limited change (a new governmental reform plan or shift in key appointments,
negotiations or coalition-building between different actors in society, events that spur reflection in society such as riots, military defeats, natural disasters, or key political anniversaries).
Collaborative, inclusive-enough coalitions—Unlike elite pacts, these coalitions involve broader
segments of society—local governments, business, labor, civil society movements, in some
cases opposition parties. Coalitions are “inclusive enough” when they involve the parties necessary to restore confidence and transform institutions and help create continued momentum for positive change; and when there is local legitimacy for excluding some groups—for
example because of electoral gains, or because groups or individuals have been involved in
abuses.
Signaling—Demonstrating an intention to break with past policies—in the context of this
Report, policies that have increased violent risks. Signals are designed to mobilize coalitions
of support, and can be made through announcements or through actions—for example,
appointments and redeployments of security forces.
Commitment mechanisms—Ways to persuade stakeholders that intentions to break with past
policies will not be reversed, including creating independent functions for implementing or
monitoring agreements.
Early results—Visible improvements to security, justice, and inclusion, economic opportunities, and services, delivered in the first 100 days and the first 12 months following an
announced change in policy prevent or recover from violent crises.
Sequencing and prioritizing reforms—Deciding on the type and scope of changes societies will
make first, those that will be addressed later, and the timeframes for achieving change.
Pragmatic, best-fit approaches—Programs, institutions and reforms that are not technically
the lowest-cost option for achieving outcomes, but are adapted to local political, security, and
institutional realities.
Transforming institutions—Developing over time “rules of the game” that increase resilience
to risks of violence, including laws, organizations, norms of behavior, and shared beliefs that
ensure that the benefits from individuals choosing to act peacefully and lawfully exceed the
costs.

xvii

Methodological Note

One of the greatest challenges in researching lessons on violence prevention and recovery
is the lack of available quantitative and qualitative data, due to challenges of security and
access, along with low statistical capacity. Even in the World Bank’s comprehensive data sets,
countries most affected by violence often register empty data columns. Polling, household
surveys, and evaluations of the impacts of policies and project interventions are also limited
in violence-affected countries and regions.
A growing body of literature on civil war focuses more on the causes of war than on the
policies to prevent or recover from violence, and less analysis is available on organized criminal violence. Over the past decade, however, this Report has benefited from a growing body
of multi-disciplinary research (political science, economics, sociology, psychology, security
studies) and policy papers on peacebuilding, statebuilding, conflict prevention, reconstruction
and stabilization operations, peacekeeping, and conflict recovery, complemented by a large
data set from multiple sources (the Uppsala Conflict Data Program, the International Peace
Research Institute of Oslo, and Human Security Report Project, homicide data from national
sources, United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), the World Health Organization
(WHO), geospatial coding of conflict events and data from the Armed Conflict Location and
Event Database and polling from regional barometers as well as surveys conducted by Fafo).
As the topics of violence and development transcend academic and policy disciplines, it has
been crucial that a common understanding of key terms be developed and used for the report
(see the glossary). For this project, background papers by respected academic researchers have
produced significant new econometric work on the relationship between institutions and violence, further complemented by country and regional case study research and consultations.

Learning from experience: Generating a global conversation
The WDR team sought to complement research by generating a global conversation with
national reformers, civil society and private sector leaders, as well as regional and international policymakers, grappling with violence in diverse regions worldwide. The team focused
explicitly on moving this conversation beyond the ‘traditional’ Organisation for Economic
Co-operation and Development (OECD) donors and multilateral partners for the World
Bank, to engage with national reformers, middle income country policy makers, regional
institutions and diplomatic and security partners, including:
• Consultations and multi-stakeholder round-tables with government leadership, civil
society, private sectors, media and international actors in some twenty low- and middleincome countries and regions that are presently affected by violent conflict, or have managed to escape from it in recent years. Countries and regions visited included Afghanistan,
Austria, Australia, Belgium, Canada, China, Colombia, the Democratic Republic of the
Congo, Denmark, Egypt, Ethiopia, France, Germany, Haiti, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Italy,
Japan, Kenya, Lebanon, Mali, Mexico, Nepal, the Netherlands, Norway, Pakistan, Rwanda,
xix

xx

M E T H O D O LO G I C A L N O T E

Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Spain, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Timor-Leste, the United
Kingdom, the United States, West Bank and Gaza, and Yemen.
• Regional discussions with policymakers and experts to explore diverse experiences and
perspectives and the importance of regional action, including in two workshops in cooperation with the African Union and the UN Economic Commission for Africa in Addis
Ababa, a session hosted by ASEAN in Jakarta, a regional workshop in Mexico City, a Middle East/North African regional workshop in Beirut, and sessions in Brussels in cooperation with the European Union.
• Cooperation and exchanges with the United Nations system on the political, security,
development, and humanitarian dynamics of the challenge. A number of exchanges have
been held with the UN General Assembly, the UN Security Council, the UN Economic and
Social Council (ECOSOC), the UN Secretariat and UN agencies, funds and programs. The
team has also engaged with the International Dialogue for Peacebuilding and Statebuilding, the OECD International Network on Conflict and Fragility, North Atlantic Treaty
Organization (NATO), the African, Asian and Inter-American Development Banks.
• Consultations in capitals to generate lessons from policymakers, experts, nongovernmental
organization (NGOs) and private sector representatives, including Berlin, Beijing, Berne,
Cairo, Copenhagen, Delhi, the Hague, Helsinki, Jakarta, Jeddah, London, Mexico City,
Oslo, Ottawa, Paris, Rome, Stockholm and Tokyo.
• The 2011WDR brought together an Advisory Council of high-level leaders and practitioners as a sounding board for emerging thinking, and to offer practical advice on the realities of policy-making in countries affected by conflict (box 1).
• WDR brainstorming sessions have also been held to tap the knowledge and experience of
academics, policymakers and NGO Representatives, in partnership with other multilateral,
think tank, academic, and regional institutions.

Methodological Note

BOX 1

xxi

The 2011 WDR Advisory Council

The 2011 WDR Advisory Council was convened at the beginning of the WDR process to exchange with the team on the Report’s emerging
messages and recommendations. Membership includes a diverse cross-section of national, regional, multilateral, and civil society leaders
with deep experience in conﬂict prevention and recovery. The Advisory Council met three times during the Report development process:
September 2009 in Washington DC; February 2010 in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia; and September 2010 in Beijing, China. AC Members also used
their convening power to support WDR capital visits in regional consultations worldwide. Based on their reﬂections on WDR themes, the
Report includes individual contributions from Advisory Council Members, which reﬂect their personal views. These boxes include lessons from
AC Members’ own involvement in conﬂict settings or topical discussions based on their expertise.
Advisory Council Members
Madeleine Albright, Chair, Albright Stonebridge Group; former U.S. Secretary of State
Louise Arbour, President, International Crisis Group; former UN High Commissioner for Human Rights
Lakhdar Brahimi, Former United Nations Special Representative to the Secretary General for Afghanistan and Iraq
Mohamed Ibn Chambas, Secretary-General of the African, Caribbean and Paciﬁc Group of Sates
Paul Collier, Professor of Economics, Oxford University
Nitin Desai, Former UN Under Secretary General for Social and Economic Aﬀairs
Carlos Alberto dos Santos Cruz, Former Force Commander of the United Nations Peacekeeping Mission in Haiti
Martin Griﬃths, Former Director, Centre for Humanitarian Dialogue
Mohamed “Mo” Ibrahim, Founder, Mo Ibrahim Foundation and Founder, Celtel
H.E. Paul Kagame, President of Rwanda
Ramtane Lamamra, Commissioner, Peace and Security Council, African Union
Louis Michel, Member of the European Parliament
Jorge Montano, Director General, Asesoría y Análisis; former Ambassador of Mexico to the U.S.
Jay Naidoo, Chairman, Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition; former Chair, Development Bank of Southern Africa
Kenzo Oshima, Senior Vice President of Japan International Cooperation Agency
Surin Pitsuwan, Secretary-General of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations
Zeid Ra’ad Al-Hussein, Ambassador of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan to the United Nations
Marta Lucía Ramirez de Rincón, Fundación Ciudadanía en Acción; former Minister of Defense—Colombia
H.E. Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, President of Liberia
Dmitri Trenin, Director, Moscow Center, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace
Wu Jianmin, Chairman of the Shanghai Center for International Studies
H.E. George Yeo, Minister of Foreign Aﬀairs, Singapore

Fostering a continuing conversation
This WDR has laid a major emphasis on communication because, from the start, the aim was not just to inform but to reach
out across multiple policy communities, to enhance understanding of trends in conflict, and to promote practical changes in the
way we address conflict. This implied a longer term strategy than for previous reports to build momentum over time with the
aim of clarifying the challenges, testing policy prescriptions and advocating concrete proposals. The extensive outreach program
has both contributed to the substance of the report and initiated the communication process much earlier than previous WDRs.
This WDR is also making extensive use of video, the web and social media to broaden the public discussion on fragility and
conflict. An interactive website has been launched featuring data used in the report, thematic background papers, WDR conflict
case studies, video material, blogs, and twitter feeds (the WDR blog at http://blogs.worldbank.org/conflict and our twitter site
at http://twitter.com/wbConflict).

Abbreviations and Data Notes

Abbreviations
AC
ACLED
ADB
AfDB
AFSIS
AKDN
ANC
ASEAN
AU
AUC
AUPSC
AusAID
Austrac
AZAPO
BRA
BRAVO
CDC
CCAI
CDD
CICIG
CODESA
CPA
CPA
CPIA
CV
DAC
DDR
DESEPAZ
DfID
ECOSOC
ECOWAS
ECSC
EFCC
EGSC
EITI
ELN

Advisory Council, Word Development Report 2011
Armed Conflict Location and Event Database
Asian Development Bank
African Development Bank
ASEAN Food Security Information System
Aga Khan Development Network
African National Congress
Association of Southeast Asian Nations
African Union
Autodefensas Unidas de Colombia (United Self-Defense Forces of
Colombia)
African Union Peace and Security Council
Australian Government Overseas Aid Program
Australian Transaction Reports and Analysis Center
Azanian People’s Organisation, South Africa
Badan Reintegrasi-Damai Aceh (Aceh Peace-Reintegration Board)
Birth Registration for All Versus Oblivion
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
Centro de Coordinación de Acción Integral (Colombia)
community driven development
Comisión Internacional Contra la Impunidad en Guatemala (International
Commission Against Impunity in Guatemala)
Convention for a Democratic South Africa
Comprehensive Peace Agreement
Coalition Provisional Authority (Iraq)
Country Policy and Institutional Assessment
coefficient of variance
Development Assistance Committee
Disarmament, Demobilization, and Reintegration
Desarrollo, Seguridad y Paz
Department for International Development, UK
United Nations Economic and Social Council
Economic Community of West African States
European Coal and Steel Community
Economic and Financial Crimes Commission
Economic Governance Steering Committee
Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
National Liberation Army (Colombia)
xxiii

xxiv

A B B R E V I AT I O N S A N D DATA N O T E S

ETA
EU
Fafo
FAO
FARC
FATA
FATF
FDI
FINCEN
FINTRAC
FIU
FMLN
FRELIMO
GAM
GDP
GEMAP
GMS
GIS
GNI
HNP
IADB
ICRC
ICRG
IDA
IDP
IFAD
IFC
IFI
IMF
INCAF
IRA
ISAF
KDP
KP
MDG
MDRP
MDTF
MINUSTAH
MONUC
MOU
NATO
NCP
NGO
NSP
NTGL
ODA
OECD

Euskadi Ta Askatasuna (Spain)
European Union
Institutt for Anvendte Internasjonale Studier (Institute for Labor and Social
Research, Norway)
Food and Agriculture Organization (United Nations)
Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia (Revolutionary Armed
Forces of Colombia)
Federally Administered Tribal Areas (Pakistan)
Financial Action Task Force
foreign direct investment
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, U.S.
Financial Transactions and Reports Analysis Center, Canada
financial intelligence unit
Frente Farabundo Martí para la Liberación Nacional (Farabundo Martí
National Liberation Front) El Salvador
Frente de Libertação de Moçambique (Liberation Front)
Gerakan Aceh Merdeka (Free Aceh Movement)
gross domestic product
Governance and Economic Management Assistance Program
Greater Mekong Sub-region
geographic information system
gross national income
Haitian National Police (Police Nationale d‘Haïti)
Inter-American Development Bank
International Committee of the Red Cross
International Country Risk Guide
International Development Association
internally displaced persons
International Fund for Agricultural Development
International Finance Corporation
International Financial Institutions
International Monetary Fund
International Network on Conflict and Fragility
Irish Republican Army
International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan
Kecamatan Development Program (Indonesia)
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (province in Pakistan)
Millennium Development Goal
Multi-country Demobilization and Reintegration Program (Africa)
Multi-donor Trust Fund
United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti
Mission de l’Organisation des Nations Unies en République Démocratique
du Congo (United Nations Mission in the Democratic Republic of Congo)
memorandum of understanding
North Atlantic Treaty Organization
National Conciliation Party (El Salvador)
nongovernmental organization
National Solidarity Program (Afghanistan)
National Transitional Government of Liberia
official development assistance
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development

Abbreviations and Data Notes

ONUMOZ
PAC
PCNA
PFM
PRIO
RAMSI
RENAMO
SADC
SALW
SOCA
SMS
STAR
START
SPF
UN
UNCTAD
UNDP
UNDPA
UNDPKO
UNHCR
UNICEF
UNIFEM
UNOHCHR
UNMIL
UNODC
UNOGBIS
UNPBC
UNPBF
UNSC
UNSCR
USAID
WDR
WFP
WGI
WHO

United Nations Operation in Mozambique
Pan Africanist Congress (South Africa)
Post Conflict Needs Assessment
Public Financial Management Review
Peace Research Institute (Oslo)
Regional Assistance Mission to the Solomon Islands
Resistência Nacional Moçambicana (Mozambique)
Southern African Development Community
small arms and light weapons
Serious Organized Crime Agency, U.K.
short message service
Stolen Asset Recovery Initiative
Stabilization and Reconstruction Task Force (Canada)
Statebuilding and Peacebuilding Fund (World Bank)
United Nations
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
United Nations Development Programme
United Nations Department of Political Affairs
United Nations Department of Peacekeeping Operations
United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees
United Nations Children’s Fund
United Nations Development Fund for Women
United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights
United Nations Mission in Liberia
United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime
United Nations Peacebuilding Support Office in Guinea Bissau
United Nations Peacebuilding Commission
United Nations Peacebuilding Fund
United Nations Security Council
United Nations Security Council Resolution
United States Agency for International Development
World Development Report
World Food Programme
Worldwide Governance Indicators
World Health Organization

Definitions and data notes
The countries included in regional and income groupings in this Report are listed in the
Classification of Economies table at the end of the Selected World Development Indicators.
Income classifications are based on GNP per capita; thresholds for income classifications in
this edition may be found in the Introduction to Selected World Development Indicators.
Group averages reported in the figures and tables are unweighted averages of the countries in
the group, unless noted to the contrary.
The use of the countries to refer to economies implies no judgment by the World Bank
about the legal or other status of territory. The term developing countries includes low- and
middle-income economies and thus may include economies in transition from central planning, as a matter of convenience.
Dollar figures are current U.S. dollars, unless otherwise specified. Billion means 1,000 million; trillion means 1,000 billion.

xxv

CITIZEN
SECURITY,
JUSTICE,
AND JOBS
EXTERNAL
STRESS

RE

R
TO
ING

FID
CON

E NC E

IT

ST

IO

IN

UT

NG

F I DE NC E
CON

ENCE

IT

ST

IO

IN

FID
CON

ST

UT

ING

ING

N
GI

IT

R
TO

R
TO

TRANSFORMIN

VIOLENCE and
FRAGILITY

S

TRANSFORMING

RE

S

TRANSFORMI

RE

S

UT

IO

NS

NS

NS

EXTERNAL SUPPORT
AND INCENTIVES

Overview

Preamble

E

fforts to maintain collective security are at the heart of human
history: from the earliest times,
the recognition that human safety
depends on collaboration has been a motivating factor for the formation of village
communities, cities, and nation-states. The
20th century was dominated by the legacy
of devastating global wars, colonial struggles,
and ideological conflicts, and by efforts to
establish international systems that would
foster global peace and prosperity. To some
extent these systems were successful—wars
between states are far less common than they
were in the past, and civil wars are declining
in number.
Yet, insecurity not only remains, it has
become a primary development challenge
of our time. One-and-a-half billion people
live in areas affected by fragility, conflict, or
large-scale, organized criminal violence, and
no low-income fragile or conflict-affected
country has yet to achieve a single United
Nations Millennium Development Goal (UN
MDG). New threats—organized crime and
trafficking, civil unrest due to global economic
shocks, terrorism—have supplemented continued preoccupations with conventional war
between and within countries. While much of
the world has made rapid progress in reduc-

ing poverty in the past 60 years, areas characterized by repeated cycles of political and
criminal violence are being left far behind,
their economic growth compromised and
their human indicators stagnant.
For those who now live in more stable
neighborhoods, it may seem incomprehensible how prosperity in high-income countries
and a sophisticated global economy can coexist with extreme violence and misery in other
parts of the globe. The pirates operating off
the coast of Somalia who prey on the shipping through the Gulf of Aden illustrate the
paradox of the existing global system. How
is it that the combined prosperity and capability of the world’s modern nation-states
cannot prevent a problem from antiquity?
How is it that, almost a decade after renewed
international engagement with Afghanistan,
the prospects of peace seem distant? How is it
that entire urban communities can be terrorized by drug traffickers? How is it that countries in the Middle East and North Africa
could face explosions of popular grievances
despite, in some cases, sustained high growth
and improvement in social indicators?
This World Development Report (WDR)
asks what spurs risks of violence, why conflict prevention and recovery have proven so
difficult to address, and what can be done by
national leaders and their development, security, and diplomatic partners to help restore a

2

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

stable development path in the world’s most
fragile and violence-torn areas. The central
message of the Report is that strengthening
legitimate institutions and governance to
provide citizen security, justice, and jobs is
crucial to break cycles of violence. Restoring confidence and transforming security,
justice, and economic institutions is possible
within a generation, even in countries that
have experienced severe conflict. But that
requires determined national leadership and
an international system “refitted” to address
21st-century risks: refocusing assistance on
preventing criminal and political violence,
reforming the procedures of international
agencies, responding at a regional level, and
renewing cooperative efforts among lower-,
middle-, and higher-income countries. The
Report envisages a layered approach to effective global action, with local, national, regional, and international roles.
Because of the nature of the topic, this Report has been developed in an unusual way—
drawing from the beginning on the knowledge
of national reformers and working closely
with the United Nations and regional institutions with expertise in political and security
issues, building on the concept of human
security. The hope is that this partnership
will spark an ongoing effort to jointly deepen
our understanding of the links between security and development, and will foster practical
action on the Report’s findings.

PART 1: THE CHALLENGE
OF REPEATED CYCLES OF
VIOLENCE
21st-century conflict and violence
are a development problem that
does not fit the 20th-century mold
Global systems in the 20th century were
designed to address interstate tensions and
one-off episodes of civil war. War between
nation-states and civil war have a given logic
and sequence. The actors, sovereign states or

clearly defined rebel movements, are known.
If a dispute escalates and full-scale hostilities
ensue, an eventual end to hostilities (either
through victory and defeat or through a negotiated settlement) is followed by a short
“post-conflict” phase leading back to peace.
The global system is largely built around this
paradigm of conflict, with clear roles for national and international actors in development
in promoting the prosperity and capability
of the nation-state (but stepping out during
active conflict), in diplomacy in preventing
and mediating disputes between states and
between government and rebel movements,
in peacekeeping in the aftermath of conflict,
and in humanitarianism in providing relief.
21st-century violence1 does not fit the
20th-century mold. Interstate war and civil
war are still threats in some regions, but they
have declined over the last 25 years. Deaths
from civil war, while still exacting an unacceptable toll, are one-quarter of what they
were in the 1980s (Feature 1, figure F1.1).2
Violence and conflict have not been banished: one in four people on the planet, more
than 1.5 billion, live in fragile and conflictaffected states or in countries with very high
levels of criminal violence.3 But because of
the successes in reducing interstate war, the
remaining forms of conflict and violence do
not fit neatly either into “war” or “peace,” or
into “criminal violence” or “political violence”
(see Feature 1, F1.1–1.2 and table F1.1).
Many countries and subnational areas now
face cycles of repeated violence, weak governance, and instability. First, conflicts often
are not one-off events, but are ongoing and
repeated: 90 percent of the last decade’s civil
wars occurred in countries that had already
had a civil war in the last 30 years.4 Second,
new forms of conflict and violence threaten
development: many countries that have successfully negotiated political and peace agreements after violent political conflicts, such
as El Salvador, Guatemala, and South Africa,
now face high levels of violent crime, constraining their development. Third, different
forms of violence are linked to each other.
Political movements can obtain financing

3

Overview

FEATURE 1

How violence is changing

FIGU RE F 1.1

Deaths from civil wars are declining

300,000

60

250,000

50

200,000

40

150,000

30

100,000

20

50,000

10

0
1960

1968

1976

1984

1992

2000

Number of countries in civil war

Battle deaths in civil wars

As the number of civil wars declined, the total annual deaths from these conﬂicts (battle
deaths) fell from more than 200,000 in 1988 to fewer than 50,000 in 2008.

0
2008

Total battle deaths per annum in all civil wars (minor and major)
Total number of countries in civil war (minor and major)

Sources: Uppsala/PRIO Armed Conﬂict dataset (Harbom and Wallensteen 2010; Lacina and Gleditsch
2005); Gleditsch and others 2002; Sundberg 2008; Gleditsch and Ward 1999; Human Security Report
Project, forthcoming.
Note: Civil wars are classiﬁed by scale and type in the Uppsala/PRIO Armed Conﬂict dataset (Harbom and
Wallensteen 2010; Lacina and Gleditsch 2005). The minimum threshold for monitoring is a minor civil
war with 25 or more battle deaths a year. Low, high, and best estimates of annual battle deaths per
conﬂict are in Lacina and Gleditsch (2005, updated in 2009). Throughout this Report, best estimates are
used, except when they are not available, in which case averages of the low and high estimates are used.

TA B L E F 1.1

Violence often recurs
Few countries are truly “post-conﬂict.” The rate of violence onset in countries with a previous conﬂict has been
increasing since the 1960s, and every civil war that began since 2003 was in a country that had a previous civil
war.
Violence onsets in countries with
no previous conﬂict (%)

Violence onsets in countries with
a previous conﬂict (%)

Number of
onsets

1960s

57

43

35

1970s

43

57

44

1980s

38

62

39

1990s

33

67

81

2000s

10

90

39

Decade

Sources: Walter 2010; WDR team calculations.
Note: Previous conﬂict includes any major conﬂict since 1945.

(Feature continued on next page)

4

FEATURE 1

F I G U R E F 1.2

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

How violence is changing (continued)
Organized criminal violence threatens peace processes
Homicides have increased in every country in Central America since 1999, including those that had made great
progress in addressing political conﬂict—and this is not unique; countries such as South Africa face similar
second generation challenges.

Absolute change in homicide rate
relative to 1999

40

30

20

10

0

–10
1999

2000

2001

El Salvador
Panama

2002
Honduras
Nicaragua

2003

2004
Guatemala
Costa Rica

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

Belize

Sources: WDR team calculations based on UNODC 2007; UNODC and World Bank 2007; and national sources.
Note: Base year for homicide rate is 1999 = 0.

How violence disrupts development
The gap in poverty is widening between countries affected by violence and others
New poverty data reveal that poverty is declining for much of the world, but countries aﬀected by violence are
lagging behind. For every three years a country is aﬀected by major violence (battle deaths or excess deaths
from homicides equivalent to a major war), poverty reduction lags behind by 2.7 percentage points.
Poverty headcount
(% of population living below $1.25 a day)

F I G U R E F 1.3

65
60
55
50
45
40
35
1981

1984

1987

1990

1993

1996

1999

2002

2005

Countries aﬀec
ﬀ ted by major violence
Countries aﬀec
ﬀ ted by minor violence
Countries with negligible or no violence

Sources: WDR team calculations based on Chen, Ravallion, and Sangraula 2008 poverty data (available on POVCALNET
(http://iresearch.worldbank.org)).
Note: Poverty is % of population living at less than US$1.25 per day.

Overview

from criminal activities, as in the Democratic
Republic of Congo and Northern Ireland.5
Criminal gangs can support political violence
during electoral periods, as in Jamaica and
Kenya.6 International ideological movements
make common cause with local grievances, as
in Afghanistan and Pakistan. Thus, the large
majority of countries currently facing violence face it in multiple forms. Fourth, grievances can escalate into acute demands for
change—and the risks of violent conflict—in
countries where political, social, or economic
change lags behind expectations, as in the
Middle East and North Africa.
Repeated and interlinked, these conflicts
have regional and global repercussions. The
death, destruction, and delayed development due to conflict are bad for the conflictaffected countries, and their impacts spill
over both regionally and globally. A country making development advances, such as
Tanzania, loses an estimated 0.7 percent of
GDP every year for each neighbor in conflict.7
Refugees and internally displaced persons
have increased threefold in the last 30 years.8
Nearly 75 percent of the world’s refugees are
hosted by neighboring countries.9
The new forms of violence interlinking
local political conflicts, organized crime,
and internationalized disputes mean that
violence is a problem for both the rich and
the poor: more than 80 percent of fatalities
from terrorist attacks over the last decade
were in nonwestern targets,10 but a study
of 18 Western European countries revealed
that each additional transnational terrorist
incident reduced their economic growth by
0.4 of a percentage point a year.11 Attacks
in one region can impose costs all through
global markets—one attack in the Niger
Delta can cost global consumers of oil billions in increased prices.12 In the four weeks
following the beginning of the uprising in
Libya, oil prices increased by 15 percent.13
The interdiction of cocaine shipments to
Europe has increased fourfold since 2003,14
with even areas such as West Africa now seriously affected by drug-related violence.15

Attempts to contain violence are also
extremely costly. For example, the naval
operation to counter piracy in the Horn of
Africa and the Indian Ocean is estimated to
cost US$1.3–$2 billion annually, plus additional costs incurred by rerouting ships and
increasing insurance premiums.16 Efforts by
households and firms to protect themselves
against long-duration violence impose heavy
economic burdens: 35 percent of firms in
Latin America, 30 percent in Africa, and 27
percent in Eastern Europe and Central Asia
identify crime as the major problem for
their business activities. The burden is highest on those least able to bear the cost: firms
in Sub-Saharan Africa lose a higher percentage of sales to crime and spend a higher percentage of sales on security than any other
region.17
No low-income fragile or conflict-affected
country has yet achieved a single MDG.
People in fragile and conflict-affected states
are more than twice as likely to be undernourished as those in other developing countries, more than three times as likely to be unable to send their children to school, twice as
likely to see their children die before age five,
and more than twice as likely to lack clean
water. On average, a country that experienced
major violence over the period from 1981 to
2005 has a poverty rate 21 percentage points
higher than a country that saw no violence
(Feature 1, figure F1.3).18 A similar picture
emerges for subnational areas affected by violence in richer and more stable countries—
areas where development lags behind.19
These repeated cycles of conflict and
violence exact other human, social, and economic costs that last for generations. High
levels of organized criminal violence hold
back economic development. In Guatemala,
violence cost the country more than 7 percent
of GDP in 2005, more than twice the damage
by Hurricane Stan in the same year—and
more than twice the combined budget for
agriculture, health, and education.20 The average cost of civil war is equivalent to more
than 30 years of GDP growth for a medium-

5

6

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

size developing country.21 Trade levels after
major episodes of violence take 20 years to
recover.22 In other words, a major episode
of violence, unlike natural disasters or economic cycles, can wipe out an entire generation of economic progress.
These numbers have human consequences. In highly violent societies, many
people experience the death of a son or
daughter before their time: when children are
late coming home, a parent has good reason
to fear for their lives and physical safety. Everyday experiences, such as going to school,
to work, or to market, become occasions for
fear. People hesitate to build houses or invest
in small businesses because these can be destroyed in a moment. The direct impact of
violence falls primarily on young males—the
majority of fighting forces and gang members—but women and children often suffer
disproportionately from the indirect effects.23
Men make up 96 percent of detainees and 90
percent of the missing; women and children
are close to 80 percent of refugees and those
internally displaced.24 And violence begets
violence: male children who witness abuses
have a higher tendency to perpetrate violence
later in life.25
Yet when security is reestablished and sustained, these areas of the world can make the
greatest development gains. Several countries
emerging from long legacies of both political
and criminal violence have been among the
fastest making progress on the MDGs:26
• Ethiopia more than quadrupled access
to improved water, from 13 percent of
the population in 1990 to 66 percent in
2009–10.
• Mozambique more than tripled its primary
completion rate in just eight years, from
14 percent in 1999 to 46 percent in 2007.
• Rwanda cut the prevalence of undernutrition from 56 percent of the population in
1997 to 40 percent in 2005.
• Bosnia and Herzegovina, between 1995
and 2007, increased measles immunizations from 53 percent to 96 percent for
children aged 12–23 months.

Vicious cycles of conflict: When
security, justice, and employment
stresses meet weak institutions
Internal causes of conflict arise from political, security, and economic dynamics.27 Yet it
is difficult to disentangle causes and effects
of violence. Lower GDP per capita is robustly
associated with both large-scale political
conflict and high rates of homicide.28 Youth
unemployment is consistently cited in citizen perception surveys as a motive for joining both rebel movements and urban gangs
(Feature 2, figure F2.2).29 Feeling more secure
and powerful is also cited as an important
motivator across countries, confirming existing research that shows that employment dynamics have to do not only with income but
also with respect and status, involving social
cohesion as well as economic opportunity.
Political exclusion and inequality affecting
regional, religious, or ethnic groups are associated with higher risks of civil war,30 (and are
also cited in citizen surveys as a key driver of
conflict alongside poverty—see figure F2.1)
while inequality between richer and poorer
households is closely associated with higher
risks of violent crime (table 1.1).
External factors can heighten the risks of
violence. Major external security pressures,
as with new patterns of drug trafficking, can
overwhelm institutional capacities (see Feature 2). Income shocks can also increase risks
of violence. Work on rainfall shocks in SubSaharan Africa concludes that civil conflict
is more likely following years of poor rainfall. Using rainfall variation as a proxy for
income shocks in 41 African countries between 1981 and 1999, Satyanath, Miguel, and
Sergenti found that a decline in economic
growth of 5 percent increased the likelihood of conflict by half the following year.31
Corruption—which generally has international links through illicit trafficking, money
laundering, and the extraction of rents from
sales of national resources or international
contracts and concessions—has doubly pernicious impacts on the risks of violence, by
fueling grievances and by undermining the
effectiveness of national institutions and so-

Overview

TA B L E 1.1

Security, economic, and political stresses

Stresses

Internal

External

Security

•

Legacies of violence and trauma

•
•
•
•
•

Invasion, occupation
External support for domestic rebels
Cross-border conﬂict spillovers
Transnational terrorism
International criminal networks

Economic

•

Low income levels, low opportunity
cost of rebellion
Youth unemployment
Natural resource wealth
Severe corruption
Rapid urbanization

•
•

Price shocks
Climate change

Ethnic, religious, or regional
competition
Real or perceived discrimination
Human rights abuses

•

Perceived global inequity and
injustice in the treatment of ethnic or
religious groups

•
•
•
•
•
Justice

•
•

Source: WDR team.
Note: This table, although not exhaustive, captures major factors in the academic literature on the causes and correlates of
conﬂict and raised in the WDR consultations and surveys.33

cial norms.32 New external pressures from
climate change and natural resource competition could heighten all these risks.34
However, many countries face high unemployment, economic inequality, or pressure from organized crime networks but
do not repeatedly succumb to widespread
violence, and instead contain it. The WDR
approach emphasizes that risk of conflict and
violence in any society (national or regional)
is the combination of the exposure to internal and external stresses and the strength of
the “immune system,” or the social capability
for coping with stress embodied in legitimate
institutions.35 Both state and nonstate institutions are important. Institutions include social norms and behaviors—such as the ability
of leaders to transcend sectarian and political differences and develop bargains, and of
civil society to advocate for greater national
and political cohesion—as well as rules, laws,
and organizations.36 Where states, markets,
and social institutions fail to provide basic
security, justice, and economic opportunities
for citizens, conflict can escalate.
In short, countries and subnational areas with the weakest institutional legitimacy
and governance are the most vulnerable to
violence and instability and the least able
to respond to internal and external stresses.

Institutional capacity and accountability are
important for both political and criminal
violence (see Feature 2).37
• In some areas—as in the peripheral regions of Colombia before the turn of the
21st century38 or the Democratic Republic
of the Congo39 today—the state is all but
absent from many parts of the country,
and violent armed groups dominate local
contests over power and resources.
• Most areas affected by violence face deficits in their collaborative capacities40 to
mediate conflict peacefully. In some countries, institutions do not span ethnic, regional, or religious divides, and state institutions have been viewed as partisan—just
as they were for decades prior to the peace
agreement in Northern Ireland.41 In some
communities, social divisions have constrained effective collaboration between
elite dominated states and poor communities to address sources of violence.
• Rapid urbanization, as occurred earlier
in Latin America and today in Asia and
Africa, weakens social cohesion.42 Unemployment, structural inequalities, and
greater access to markets for firearms
and illicit drugs break down social cohesion and increase the vulnerability to
criminal networks and gangs.

7

8

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

• Countries with weak institutional capacity
were more likely to suffer violent social unrest during the food shocks of 2008–09.43
• Some states have tried to maintain stability
through coercion and patronage networks,
but those with high levels of corruption
and human rights abuses increase their
risks of violence breaking out in the future
(see Feature 2).
Weak institutions are particularly important in explaining why violence repeats
in different forms in the same countries or
subnational regions. Even societies with
the weakest institutions have periodic outbreaks of peace. South-central Somalia has
had interludes of low conflict over the last
30 years based on agreements by small numbers of elites.44 But temporary elite pacts,
in Somalia and elsewhere, do not provide
the grounds for sustained security and development unless they are followed by the
development of legitimate state and society
institutions.45 They are generally short-lived
because they are too personalized and narrow to accommodate stresses and adjust to
change. New internal and external stresses
arise—a leader’s death, economic shocks,
the entry of organized criminal trafficking
networks, new opportunities or rents, or
external security interference—and there
is no sustained ability to respond.46 So the
violence recurs.
A focus on legitimate institutions does
not mean converging on Western institutions.
History provides many examples of foreign
institutional models that have proven less
than useful to national development, particularly through colonial legacies,47 because
they focused on form rather than function.
The same is true today. In Iraq, the Coalition
Provisional Authority established commissions on every subject from tourism to the
environment in parallel with struggling line
ministries, and model laws were passed that
had little relationship to national social and
political realities.48 Even transfers of organizational forms between countries in the South
can be unproductive if not adapted to local

conditions—the truth and reconciliation,
anti-corruption, and human rights commissions that delivered so marvelously in some
countries have not always worked in others.
There are gains from sharing knowledge, as
the Report makes clear—but only if adapted
to local conditions. “Best-fit” institutions are
central to the Report.

PART 2: A ROADMAP
FOR BREAKING CYCLES
OF VIOLENCE AT THE
COUNTRY LEVEL
Restoring confidence and
transforming the institutions that
provide citizen security, justice,
and jobs
To break cycles of insecurity and reduce the
risk of their recurrence, national reformers
and their international partners need to build
the legitimate institutions that can provide a
sustained level of citizen security, justice, and
jobs—offering a stake in society to groups
that may otherwise receive more respect and
recognition from engaging in armed violence
than in lawful activities, and punishing infractions capably and fairly.
But transforming institutions—always
tough—is particularly difficult in fragile situations. First, in countries with a track record
of violence and mistrust, expectations are
either too low, so that no government promises are believed, making cooperative action
impossible—or too high, so that transitional
moments produce expectations of rapid
change that cannot be delivered by existing
institutions.49 Second, many institutional
changes that could produce greater longterm resilience against violence frequently
carry short-term risks. Any important shift—
holding elections, dismantling patronage networks, giving new roles to security services,
decentralizing decision-making, empowering
disadvantaged groups—creates both winners
and losers. Losers are often well organized

9

Overview

FEATURE 2

High stresses and weak institutions = risks of violence

Justice, jobs, and violence
F I G U R E F 2.1

What are citizens’ views on the drivers of conflict?
In surveys conducted in six countries and territories aﬀected by violence, involving a mix of nationally
representative samples and subregions, citizens raised issues linked to individual economic welfare
(poverty, unemployment) and injustice (including inequality and corruption) as the primary drivers of conﬂict.
45

% survey respondents answering

40
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
Poverty/
poor education

Conﬂict over
resources/
scarce resources

External
aggression

Ethnic conﬂict/
religion

Injustice/
inequality/
corruption

Source: Bøås, Tiltnes, and Flatø 2010.

What drives people to join rebel movement and gangs?
The same surveys found that the main reasons cited for why young people become
rebels or gang members are very similar—unemployment predominates for both.
This is not n ecessarily the case for militant ideological recruitment (chapter 2).
50
46%
45
40

39.5%

35
% respondents

F I G U R E F 2.2

30
25
20
15

15%

13%

13%
8%

10
5
0
Rebel participation
Unemployment/Idleness
Feel more secure/Powerful
Belief in the cause/Revenge/Injustice

Source: Bøås, Tiltnes, and Flatø 2010.

Gang participation

Other

10

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

REFLECTIONS FROM ADVISORY COUNCIL MEMBERS: 2011 WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT
Jorge Montaño, Member, International Narcotics Control Board; former Ambassador of Mexico to the
United States; WDR Advisory Council Member

The role of external stresses
Drug and human traﬃcking, money laundering, illegal exploitation of natural resources and wildlife, counterfeiting, and violations of intellectual property rights are lucrative criminal activities, which facilitate the penetration by organized crime of the
already vulnerable sociopolitical, judicial, and security structures in developing countries.
In Central America, for example, several countries that regained political stability two decades ago are now facing the decay
of the state, whose institutions lack the strength to face this onslaught. Transnational organized crime has converted some Caribbean countries into corridors for the movement of illegal drugs and persons toward Europe and North America. Bolivia, Colombia, and Peru, continue to be the main global cocaine producers, while Mexico is facing an unprecedented wave of violence given
its border with the largest immigrant, drug consumption, and arms producing market. West Africa has become the newest passage of drugs coming from South America and destined for Europe. Several African countries suﬀer the illegal exploitation of
their natural resources, while Asia is a hub for tons of opiates originating from Afghanistan. The unprecedented progression of
organized crime could spell the collapse of many weak states as their institutions fall prey to the associated violence. The precarious economic development observed in many regions of the world provides a stimulus for consolidating these illegal activities,
which will continue to thrive as a consequence of the impunity they encounter in developing countries.

WDR Note: Weak institutions are a common factor in explaining repeated cycles of violence
Building on previous work by Collier, Fearon, Goldstone, North, Wallis, and Weingast, and others, political scientists Jim Fearon
and Barbara Walter used econometric techniques for the WDR to test whether general rule of law and government eﬀectiveness, low corruption, and strong protection of human rights correlate with a lower risk of the onset and recurrence of civil war
and of high homicides from criminal violence. Fearon ﬁnds that countries with above average governance indicators for their
income level have a signiﬁcantly lower risk of the outbreak of civil conﬂict within the next 5 to 10 years—between 30 to 45 percent lower—and that the relationship also holds true for countries with high homicides. This work conﬁrms earlier directions in
the policy community, such as the International Network on Conﬂict and Fragility’s emphasis on the links between peacebuilding and state-building.
Measures of accountability are as important as measures of capacity in this calculation. Fearon ﬁnds that high levels of political terror in past periods increase the chances of current conﬂict. Walter ﬁnds that signiﬁcant reductions in the number of
political prisoners and extrajudicial killings make the renewal of civil war between two and three times less likely than in countries with higher levels of human rights abuses. She notes, “A reasonable interpretation of these results is that greater repression
and abuse by a government creates both grievances and signals that those governments (sic) are not dependable negotiating
partners; suggesting that less coercive and more accountable approaches signiﬁcantly decrease the risk of civil conﬂict.” Other
measures of accountability also matter: measures of rule of law and corruption are as or more important than measures of
bureaucratic quality.

and resist change. Third, external stresses can
derail progress.
Creating the legitimate institutions that
can prevent repeated violence is, in plain language, slow. It takes a generation. Even the
fastest-transforming countries have taken
between 15 and 30 years to raise their institutional performance from that of a fragile state
today—Haiti, say—to that of a functioning
institutionalized state, such as Ghana (table
2.1).50 The good news is that this process of

transforming institutions accelerated considerably in the late 20th century, with increases
in citizen demands for good governance and
in the technologies that can help supply it. Indeed, making progress in a generation is actually quite fast: progress at this speed would
represent immense development gains for
countries such as Afghanistan, Haiti, Liberia,
and Timor-Leste today.
The basic framework of the WDR focuses
on what we have learned about the dynam-

Overview

TA BLE 2.1

Fastest progress in institutional transformation—An estimate of
realistic ranges
The table shows the historical range of timings that th e fastest reformers in the 20th century
took to achieve basic governance transformations.
Years to threshold at pace of:
Indicator

Fastest 20

Fastest over the threshold

Bureaucratic quality (0–4)

20

12

Corruption (0–6)

27

14

Military in politics (0–6)

17

10

Government eﬀectiveness

36

13

Control of corruption

27

16

Rule of law

41

17

Source: Pritchett and de Weijer 2010.

ics of action to prevent repeated cycles of violence—both in the short term and over the
time needed to reach a sustained level of resilience. Our knowledge of how to break these
cycles is partial: the Report lays out lessons
drawn from existing research, country studies, and consultations with national reformers.
Experiences from Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Chile, Colombia, Ghana, Indonesia, Liberia,
Mozambique, Northern Ireland, Sierra Leone,
South Africa, and Timor-Leste amongst others,
are drawn on frequently in the Report because,
while all of these areas still face challenges and
risks, these societies have achieved considerable successes in preventing violence from
escalating or recovering from its aftermath.
These and the other experiences in the Report
also span a range of high-income, middleincome and lower-income countries, a range
of threats of political and criminal violence,
and differing institutional contexts, ranging from situations where strong institutions
faced legitimacy challenges due to problems
of inclusion and accountability to situations
where weak capacity was a major constraint.
There are some fundamental differences
between fragile and violent situations and
stable developing environments. First is the
need to restore confidence in collective action before embarking on wider institutional

transformation. Second is the priority of
transforming institutions that provide citizen security, justice, and jobs. Third is the
role of regional and international action to
contain external stresses. Fourth is the specialized nature of external support needed.
Institutional transformation and good
governance, central to these processes, work
differently in fragile situations. The goal is
more focused—transforming institutions
that deliver citizen security, justice, and jobs.
When facing the risk of conflict and violence,
citizen security, justice and jobs are the key
elements of protection to achieve human security.51 The dynamics of institutional change
are also different. A good analogy is a financial crisis caused by a combination of external
stresses and weaknesses in institutional checks
and balances. In such a situation, exceptional
efforts are needed to restore confidence in
national leaders’ ability to manage the crisis—
through actions that signal a real break with
the past and through locking in these actions
and showing that they will not be reversed.
Confidence-building—a concept used in
political mediation and financial crises but
rarely in development circles52—is a prelude
to more permanent institutional change in
the face of violence. Why? Because low trust
means that stakeholders who need to con-

11

12

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

F I G U R E 2 .1

Moving from fragility and violence to institutional resilience in citizen
security, justice, and jobs
CITIZEN
SECURITY,
JUSTICE,
AND JOBS
EXTERNAL
STRESS

RE

R
TO

ING
FID
CON

E NC E

IT

T

IO

NS

UT

GI

F I DE NC E
CON

IT

ST

ENCE

IO

IN

FID
CON

ST

UT

ING

ING

N
GI

IT

R
TO

R
TO

TRANSFORMIN

VIOLENCE and
FRAGILITY

S

TRANSFORMING

RE

S

TRANSFORMIN

RE

S

UT

IO

NS

NS

NS

EXTERNAL SUPPORT
AND INCENTIVES

Source: WDR team.

tribute political, financial, or technical support will not collaborate until they believe
that a positive outcome is possible.53 But
confidence-building is not an end in itself.
Just as in a financial crisis, progress will not
be sustained unless the institutions that provide citizen security, justice, and an economic
stake in society are transformed to prevent a
recurrence of violence.
Just as violence repeats, efforts to build
confidence and transform institutions typically follow a repeated spiral. Countries that
moved away from fragility and conflict often do so not through one decisive “make or
break” moment—but through many transition moments, as the spiral path in figure
2.1 illustrates. National leaders had to build
confidence in the state and to transform institutions over time, as with the Republic of
Korea’s transitions in the security, political,
and economic spheres after the Korean War,
or Ghana, Chile and Argentina’s transitions
from military rule, which included repeated
internal contests over the norms and gover-

nance of society.54 A repeated process enables
space for collaborative norms and capacities to
develop, and for success to build on successes
in a virtuous cycle. For each loop of the spiral, the same two phases recur: building confidence that positive chance is possible, prior
to deepening the institutional transformation
and strengthening governance outcomes.

Confidence-building—Inclusiveenough coalitions and early results
The state cannot restore confidence alone.
Confidence-building in situations of violence
and fragility requires deliberate effort to build
inclusive-enough coalitions, as Indonesia did in
addressing violence in Aceh or Timor-Leste in
its recovery after the renewed violence in 2006
or Chile in its political transition. Coalitions
are “inclusive-enough” when they include the
parties necessary for implementing the initial
stages of confidence-building and institutional
transformation. They need not be “all-inclusive.”55 Inclusive-enough coalitions work in

Overview

two ways: (1) at a broad level, by building national support for change and bringing in the
relevant stakeholders, through collaboration
between the government and other sectors of
society—as well as with regional neighbors,
donors, or investors, and (2) at a local level, by
promoting outreach to community leaders to
identify priorities and deliver programs. Inclusive-enough coalitions apply just as much to
criminal as to political violence, through collaboration with community leaders, business,
and civil society in areas affected by criminal
violence. Civil society—including women’s
organizations—often plays important roles
in restoring confidence and sustaining the
momentum for recovery and transformation,
as demonstrated by the role of the Liberian
Women’s Initiative in pressing for continued
progress in the peace agreement.56
Persuading stakeholders to work collaboratively requires signals of a real break with
the past—for example, ending the political or
economic exclusion of marginalized groups,
corruption, or human rights abuses—as well
as mechanisms to “lock-in” these changes
and show that they will not be reversed. In
moments of opportunity or crisis, fast and
visible results also help restore confidence
in the government’s ability to deal with
violent threats and implement institutional
and social change. State-community, statenongovernmental organization (NGO), stateinternational, and state-private-sector partnerships can extend the state’s capacity to
deliver. Actions in one domain can support
results in another. Security operations can
facilitate safe trade and transit, and the economic activity that creates jobs. Services delivered to marginalized groups can support perceptions of justice. More detailed approaches
to support inclusive-enough coalitions are
described in the section on practical policies
and programs for country actors below.

Transforming institutions that deliver
citizen security, justice, and jobs
There is a limit to the amount of change societies can absorb at any one time, and in frag-

ile situations, many reforms need a buildup of trust and capacity before they can be
successfully implemented. Getting the balance right between “too fast” and “too slow”
transformative action is crucial, and some
basic lessons emerge from successful country
transitions.
First, prioritizing early action to reform the
institutions responsible for citizen security,
justice, and jobs is crucial, as in Singapore’s
post-independence development (see Feature 3). Stemming illegal financial flows from
the public purse or from natural resource
trafficking is important to underpin these
initiatives. Pragmatic, “best-fit” approaches
adapted to local conditions will be needed.
For example, Lebanon restored the electricity
needed for economic recovery during the civil
war through small private-sector networks of
providers, albeit at high unit costs.57 Haiti’s
successful police reforms in 2004 to 2009 focused on ousting abusers from the force and
restoring very basic work discipline.58
Second, focusing on citizen security, justice, and jobs means that most other reforms
will need to be sequenced and paced over
time, including political reform, decentralization, privatization, and shifting attitudes
toward marginalized groups. Systematically
implementing these reforms requires a web
of institutions (democratization, for example,
requires many institutional checks and balances beyond elections) and changes in social
attitudes. Several successful political transitions, such as the devolution that underpins
peace in Northern Ireland and democratic
transitions in Chile, Indonesia, or Portugal,
have taken place through a series of steps over
a decade or more.
There are exceptions—where the exclusion of groups from democratic participation
has been a clear overriding source of grievance, rapid action on elections makes sense;
and where interests that previously blocked
reform have diminished, as with post-war
Japanese or Republic of Korea land reform,59
fast action can take advantage of a window of
opportunity. But in most situations, systematic and gradual action appears to work best.

13

14

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

REFLECTIONS FROM ADVISORY COUNCIL MEMBERS: 2011 WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT
F E AT U R E 3

Country experiences of confidence-building and transforming institutions for
citizen security, justice, and jobs

Confidence building in South Africa
Jay Naidoo, Chairman of Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition; Former General Secretary,
Congress of South African Trade Unions; Former Minister of Reconstruction and Development, South
Africa; and Former Chairman of the Development Bank of Southern Africa; WDR Advisory Council
Member
(Abbreviated from WDR 2011, chapter 3)
In South Africa, the “moment” of transition in 1994 was preceded by multiple transition points which required eﬀorts
from the protagonists to shift the debate and that gave credibility to the process. On the African National Congress (ANC)
Alliance side, this included the shift to a broader, more inclusive approach, and the realization of the need to ensure
incentives for the National Party and the white population.
On the National Party side, this included the shift from thinking in terms of group rights and protection of minorities to
thinking in terms of individual rights and majority rule. Certain signals which were perceived as irreversible (notably the
unconditional release of Nelson Mandela and the suspension of the ANC’s armed struggle) were critical in maintaining trust between parties. After the 1994 elections, delivering a few early results—including maternal and infant
healthcare and using community structures to improve
water supply—were important to maintain conﬁdence in
our new government.

In addition to successes, there were opportunities missed
which may be of use when other countries consider South
Africa’s experiences. This included too little attention to job
creation for youth and risks of criminal violence. It meant that
we did not fully address the critical need to ensure that the new
generation who had not lived through the apartheid struggle
as adults were provided with a strong stake—and economic
opportunities—in the new democratic state.
There was also too much of an assumption that 1994
marked the culmination of a process of democratization and
reconciliation. Relatively little attention was given to what was
meant by the transformation to a constitutional state; the continued role of civil society in deepening not just democratization and accountability but also delivery. And there was a need
for a deeper and more thorough ongoing debate on racism,
inequality, and social exclusion.

All politics is local and early attention to security, justice, and jobs
George Yeo, Minister of Foreign Affairs for Singapore; WDR Advisory Council Member
(Abbreviated from WDR 2011, chapters 4 and 5)
Successful eﬀorts must begin at the local level. Without
emphasis on local results, citizens lose conﬁdence in their
government’s ability to provide a better life. Actions to
restore security, create trust, generate employment, and
provide services in local communities lay the foundation for
national progress. It is not enough to deliver results in big
cities. In cases of ethnic and religious strife, where mutual
insecurity can feed on itself, a local authority that is seen to
be fair and impartial by all groups is absolutely essential
before the process of healing and recovery can take place.
This was Singapore’s experience when we had race riots in
the 1960s. A trusted leader can make a decisive diﬀerence.
It takes time to build institutions. Getting the urgent
things done ﬁrst, especially improving security and providing jobs, helps people to feel more hopeful about the future.
Success then creates the condition for further success. With-

out a practical approach, new institutions cannot take root in
the hearts and minds of ordinary people. For Singapore in the
early years, the priority was on security, law and order, and
creating favorable conditions for investment and economic
growth. Conﬁdence was everything. National Service was introduced within a year. Secret societies and other criminal activities were suppressed. Corruption was progressively rooted out.
To promote investment and job creation, labor and land acquisition laws were reformed early. Against conventional wisdom
in many developing countries at that time, we eschewed protectionism and encouraged multinationals to invest. Managing
the politics of change was always a challenge.
The key was winning the trust of the people. Institutions
which endure are sustained by the respect and aﬀection of the
population. It is a process which takes at least a generation.

Overview

REFLECTIONS FROM ADVISORY COUNCIL MEMBERS: 2011 WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT
F E AT U R E 3

Country experiences of confidence-building and transforming institutions for
citizen security, justice, and jobs (continued)

Colombia’s restoration of confidence in safe transit
Marta Lucía Ramirez de Rincón, Director, Fundación Ciudadanía en Acción; former Senator and Chair of
Security Commission, Colombia; former Defense Minister and former Foreign Trade Minister, Colombia;
WDR Advisory Council Member
(Abbreviated from WDR 2011, chapter 5)
The challenge we faced in 2002 was preventing Colombia
from becoming a failed state. This meant shielding our citizens from kidnapping and terrorism. It also meant protecting our infrastructure, roads, and democratic institutions
against attacks by the guerrillas, the paramilitaries, and drug
traﬃckers. These groups hijacked cars and kidnapped people as they travelled across the country. Since this problem
had worsened in the years ahead of the 2002 elections, the
government set the restoration of security in roads and
highways as a key priority on their agenda. It devised the
Meteoro program widely known as, “Live Colombia, travel
across it” (“Vive Colombia, Viaja por ella”).

Meteoro aimed at restoring control of the roads and highways across the country back from the illegitimate hand of
armed groups that inﬂicted fear in the population. The government invited the Colombian population to drive their cars and
travel across the country without intimidation, while at the
same time launching a major military, intelligence, and police
operation to protect the roads and ensure the safety of the
population. Through this plan, the government sought to give
people back their country and to reactivate trade and tourism.
Above all, this plan, implemented at the very early stage of the
new government, brought about a breakthrough in the restoration of trust and hope in the Colombian society.

Do not confuse speed with haste in political processes
Lakhdar Brahimi, former UN Special Representative of the Secretary General to Iraq and Afghanistan;
WDR Advisory Council Member
(Abbreviated from WDR 2011, chapter 5)
It is important not to confuse speed with haste in political
processes: too hasty approaches can precipitate the opposite eﬀect from the one we seek to support. The international community’s high hopes for Iraq’s 2005 experiment in
proportional electoral democracy produced a contest for
power which increased rather than allayed sectarian violence and the constitution hastily produced later is proving
diﬃcult to implement. Similarly, the 2009 election in Afghanistan proved to challenge rather than bolster perceptions
of institutional legitimacy in the immediate aftermath.

Addressing external stresses and
mobilizing international support
External stresses, such as the infiltration of
organized crime and trafficking networks,
spillovers from neighboring conflicts, and
economic shocks, are important factors in
increasing the risk of violence. In fragile situations, many of these external pressures will

The options are not mutually exclusive—there is great
worldwide demand for more inclusive and responsive governance, and elections can be a crucial means to provide this. But
their timing requires careful attention. Democratic traditions
have developed in most countries over a considerable period.
Democratization eﬀorts today, similarly, require attention to
historical heritages and existing political cleavages, and must
be seen as an ongoing process of social transformation and the
development of a broad range of institutions that provide
checks and balances rather than an identiﬁable “event.” Democratization does not start or end with elections.

already be present and the institutions to respond to them are generally weak. If they are
not addressed, or if they increase, they can derail efforts at violence prevention and recovery. Far more so than in stable development
environments, addressing external stresses
therefore needs to be a core part of national
strategies and international supporting efforts for violence prevention and recovery.

15

16

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

International assistance needs also differ
in fragile situations. The requirement to generate rapid confidence-building results puts
a particular premium on speed. The focus
on building collaborative, inclusive-enough
coalitions and on citizen security, justice,
and jobs draws together a wider range of
international capacities that need to work
in concert—for example, for mediation, human rights, and security assistance, as well as
humanitarian and development aid. Where
the political situation is fragile and the capacity of local systems to ensure accountability
is weak, international incentives—such as
recognition and sanction mechanisms—also
play a significant role. Take one of the smaller
West African countries that have recently
had coups d’état. Local mechanisms to resolve the situation peacefully are limited, and
African Union (AU) and Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS)
pressure to return to a constitutional path is
critical. So regional and global recognition
for responsible leadership can play a role in
strengthening incentives and accountability
systems at a national level.

Practical policy and program tools
for country actors
The WDR lays out a different way of thinking
about approaches to violence prevention and
recovery in fragile situations. It does not aim
to be a “cookbook” that prescribes recipes—
each country’s political context differs, and
there are no one-size-fits-all solutions. While
the choice of confidence-building measures
and institution-building approaches needs
to be adapted to each country, a set of basic
tools emerging from experience can be the
basis for that adaptation. These core tools
include the options for signals and commitment mechanisms to build collaborative coalitions, demonstrating a break from
the past and building confidence in positive
outcomes. They also include a description of
the programs that can deliver quick results
and longer-term institutional provision of

citizen security, justice, and jobs. The Report
first presents the basic tools and then looks at
how to differentiate strategies and programming to different country circumstances, using country-specific assessments of risks and
opportunities.

Political and policy signals to build
collaborative, inclusive-enough
coalitions
There is a surprising commonality across
countries in the signals that most frequently
build confidence and collaborative coalitions (see Feature 4). They can include immediate actions in credible national or local
appointments, in transparency, and in some
cases, the removal of factors seen as negative, such as discriminatory laws. Security
forces can be redeployed as a positive signal
of attention to insecure areas, but also as a
sign that the government recognizes where
particular units have a record of distrust or
abuse with communities and replaces them.
Measures to improve transparency of information and decision-making processes can
be important in building confidence, as well
as laying the basis for sustained institutional
transformation.
Signals can also be announcements of future actions—the selection of two or three
key early results; the focus of military and
police planning on citizen security goals;
or setting approaches and timelines toward
political reform, decentralization, or transitional justice. Ensuring that political and
policy signals are realistic in scope and timing and can be delivered is important in
managing expectations—by anchoring them
in national planning and budget processes
and discussing any external support needed
in advance with international partners.
When signals relate to future action, their
credibility will be increased by commitment
mechanisms that persuade stakeholders that
they will actually be implemented and not
reversed. Examples are Colombia’s and Indonesia’s independent, multisectoral executing
agencies and third-party monitors, such as

17

Overview

Feature 4 Core Tools
RESTORING CONFIDENCE
CITIZEN
SECURITY,
JUSTICE,
AND JOBS

EXTERNAL
STRESS

RE

R
TO

S

TU

I

IO

ENCE

E NCE

UT

ST

I

ON

ST

ST

E NC E

IN
TI

IN

FID
CON

IN

FID
CON

IT

FID
CON

ING

I NG

TRANSFORMING

TU

ING

S

R
TO

R
TO

S

TRANSFORMING

RE

TRANSFORMING

RE

TI

ON

S

NS

S

VIOLENCE and
FRAGILITY

Signals: Future
policy and priorities

Signals:
Immediate actions

Commitment
mechanisms

Supporting
actions

• Citizen security goals
• Key principles and
realistic timelines for
political reform,
decentralization,
corruption, transitional justice
• Mix of state, community, NGO, and international capacity

• Participatory processes
• Local security, justice,
and development results
• Credible appointments
• Transparency in
expenditures
• Redeployment of
security forces
• Removal of discriminatory policies

• Independence of
executing agencies
• Independent third-party
monitoring
• Dual-key nationalinternational systems
• International execution
of one or more key
functions

• Risk and priority
assessments
• Communicating costs
of inaction
• Simple plans and
progress measures on
2–3 early results
• Strategic
communication

EXTERNAL SUPPORT
AND INCENTIVES

TRANSFORMING INSTITUTIONS
Citizen security

Justice

Jobs and associated services

Foundational reforms and ”best-fit” approaches
CITIZEN
SECURITY,
JUSTICE,
AND JOBS

EXTERNAL
STRESS

TRANSFORMING

IN

TRANSFORMING

ST

I

IN

TRANSFORMING

IT

ST

IN

ST

I

TU

VIOLENCE and
FRAGILITY

TU

TI

ON

UT

IO

TI

ON

S

NS

S

EXTERNAL SUPPORT
AND INCENTIVES

Security sector reform:
• Designed to deliver citizen
security benefits
• Capacity increases linked
to repeated realistic
performance outcomes
and justice functions
• Dismantling criminal
networks through civilian
oversight, vetting and
budget expenditure
transparency
• Use of low-capital systems
for rural and community
policing

Justice sector reform:
independence and link to
security reforms; strengthening
basic caseload processing;
extending justice services,
drawing on traditional/
community mechanisms
Phasing anti-corruption
measures: demonstrate
national resources can be
used for public good before
dismantling rent systems;
control capture of rents and
use social accountability
mechanisms

Multisectoral community empowerment
programs: combining citizen security, employment, justice, education, and infrastructure
Employment programs: regulatory simplification
and infrastructure recovery for private-sector job
creation, long-term public programs, asset
expansion, value chain programs, informal sector support, labor migration, women’s economic
empowerment, and asset expansion
Humanitarian delivery and social protection:
with planned transition from international
provision
Macroeconomic policy: focus on consumer price
volatility and employment

Gradual, systematic programs
• Phased capacity and
accountability in specialized security functions

CITIZEN
SECURITY,
JUSTICE,
AND JOBS
EXTERNAL
STRESS

VIOLENCE and
FRAGILITY

EXTERNAL SUPPORT
AND INCENTIVES

•
•
•
•

Political and electoral reform
Decentralization
Transitional justice
Comprehensive anticorruption reforms

• Structural economic reforms such as
privatization
• Education and health reforms
• Inclusion of marginalized groups

NATIONAL ACTION TO ADDRESS EXTERNAL STRESS
Citizen security

Justice

Jobs and associated services

• Border cooperation
• Military, police, and financial intelligence

• Coordinate supply and
demand-side responses
• Joint investigations and prosecutions across jurisdictions
• Building links between
formal/informal systems

• Pooled supplementary administrative capacity
• Cross-border development programming

FEASIBLE RESULTS INDICATORS TO DEMONSTRATE OVERALL PROGRESS
Short
term

Citizen security

Justice

Jobs and associated services

• Violent deaths
• Perception survey
data on increases/
decreases in security

• Perception surveys by groups (ethnic, geographical, religious, class) on
whether their welfare is increasing
over time and in relation to others
• Perception survey on trust in national
institutions and on corruption

• Perceptions of whether
employment
opportunities are increasing
• Price surveys (for real income
implications)

• Governance indicators refocused on
outcomes and degree of progress
within historically realistic timeframes
• Household survey data on vertical
and horizontal inequalities and access
to justice services

• Household data on
employment and labor force
participation

Longer • Victim surveys
term

18

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

the joint ASEAN-EU (Association of Southeast Asian Nations–European Union) Aceh
monitoring mission.60 Sole or “dual-key” authority over one or more functions involving
international agencies—as with the jointly
run Governance and Economic Management Assistance Program in Liberia,61 the
International Commission Against Impunity
(CICIG) in Guatemala,62 or when UN peacekeeping missions have executive responsibility for policing—is also a commitment
mechanism when institutional capacity and
accountability are low.
Strong strategic communication on these
signals of change are always important—
actions and policy changes cannot influence
behaviors unless people know they have
taken place and how they fit into a broader
vision. Where the risks of crisis escalation are
not fully recognized by all national leaders,
providing an accurate and compelling message on the consequences of inaction can
help galvanize momentum for progress. Economic and social analyses can support this
narrative—by showing how rising violence
and failing institutions are causing national
or subnational areas to lag far behind their
neighbors in development progress; or by
showing how other countries that have failed
to address rising threats have faced severe and
long-lasting development consequences. The
WDR analysis provides some clear messages:
• No country or region can afford to ignore
areas where repeated cycles of violence
flourish and citizens are disengaged from
the state.
• Unemployment, corruption, and exclusion increase the risks of violence—and
legitimate institutions and governance that
give everyone a stake in national prosperity are the immune system that protects
from different types of violence.
• Citizen security is a preeminent goal in
fragile situations, underpinned by justice
and jobs.
• Leaders need to seize opportunities before
violence escalates or recurs.

National program design to restore
confidence and transform institutions
The core program tools that emerge from
different country experiences are deliberately kept small in number to reflect country
lessons on focus and priorities. They are all
designed to be delivered at scale, in large national or subnational programs rather than
small projects. They include multisectoral
programs linking community structures with
the state; security sector reform; justice reform; national employment policy and programs; associated services that support citizen security, justice, and job creation, such as
electricity and social protection; and phased
approaches to corruption. They also include
programs that can be crucial for sustained
violence prevention: political reform, decentralization, transitional justice, and education
reform where systematic attention is needed
once early reforms in citizen security, justice,
and jobs have started to make progress.
The top five lessons of what works in program design are:
• Programs that support bottom-up statesociety relations in insecure areas. These
include community-based programs for
violence prevention, employment, and associated service delivery, and access to local
justice and dispute resolution. Examples
are community policing in a wide range of
higher-, middle-, and lower-income countries, the Afghanistan National Solidarity
Program, and Latin American multisectoral violence prevention programs.63
• Complementary programs for institutional transformation in the priority areas of security and justice. Early reform
programs should focus on simple basic
functions (such as criminal caseload processing, adequate basic investigation, and
arrest procedures); include civilian oversight, vetting, and budget and expenditure
transparency to dismantle covert or criminal networks; and link the pace of reform
between the police and civilian justice systems to avoid situations where increasing

Overview

police capacity results in prolonged detentions or the release of offenders back into
the community without due process.
• “Back to basics” job creation programs. These programs include large-scale
community-based public works, such as
those India and Indonesia use throughout
the country, including in marginalized and
violence-affected communities; privatesector regulatory simplification and addressing of infrastructure bottlenecks (in
particular, electricity, which is the number
one constraint for businesses in fragile and
violent areas); and access to finance and
investments to bring producers and markets together, as in Kosovo’s and Rwanda’s
coffee, dairy, and tourism initiatives.64
• The involvement of women in security,
justice, and economic empowerment programs, such as the Nicaragua, Liberia, and
Sierra Leone reforms to introduce female
staffing and gender-specific service in the
police force; and economic empowerment
initiatives in Nepal, which addressed issues
of gender roles that had previously been
divisive in insecure areas through the provision of finance and business training to
women’s groups.65
• Focused anticorruption initiatives that
demonstrate that new initiatives can be
well governed. Tools have included the
use of private-sector capacity to monitor
functions vulnerable to grand corruption,
as with Liberia’s forestry inspection and
Mozambique’s customs collection, combined with social accountability mechanisms that use transparent publication of
expenditure and community/civil-society
monitoring to ensure funds reach their
intended targets.66
Some of the early confidence-building results that can be targeted through these programs include freedom of movement along
transit routes, electricity coverage, number of
businesses registered and employment days
created, processing of judicial caseloads, and

reduction of impunity through vetting or
prosecutions. What is crucial here is that early
results generate improvements in the morale
of national institutions and set the right incentives for later institution-building.
For example, if security forces are set
targets based on the number of rebel combatants killed or captured or criminals arrested, they may rely primarily on coercive
approaches, with no incentive to build the
longer-term trust with communities that
will prevent violence from recurring. Targets
based on citizen security (freedom of movement and so on), in contrast, create longerterm incentives for the role of the security
forces in underpinning national unity and
effective state-society relations. Similarly, if
services and public works are delivered only
through top-down national programs, there
will be few incentives for communities to take
responsibility for violence prevention or for
national institutions to undertake responsibility to protect all vulnerable citizens, men
and women. A mixture of state and nonstate,
bottom-up and top-down approaches is a
better underpinning for longer-term institutional transformation.
Phasing transitions from humanitarian
aid is also an important part of transforming institutions. In countries where current
stresses overwhelm national institutional capacity by a large margin, national reformers
often draw on international humanitarian
capacity to deliver early results. These programs can be effective in saving lives, building
confidence, and extending national capacity.
But a difficult trade-off occurs in deciding
on the time needed to shift these functions
to national institutions. For food programs,
this generally means phasing down deliveries before local harvests and moving from
general distribution to targeted programs,
in coordination with government social protection agencies where possible. For health,
education, water, and sanitation, it means
reducing international roles step-by-step
over time as the capacity of national or local
institutions increases—as in the transition

19

20

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

from international to national health provision in Timor-Leste, which moved from
international execution to government contracting of international NGOs and then to
government management.67

Regional and cross-border initiatives
Societies do not have the luxury of transforming their institutions in isolation—they
need at the same time to manage external
pressures, whether from economic shocks
or trafficking and international corruption.
Many of these issues are beyond the control
of each nation-state to address, and the last
section of the Report considers international
policy to diminish external stresses. National
leaders may play a significant role in galvanizing broad regional or global cooperation
on issues such as trafficking, as well as bilateral cooperation. Possible initiatives include:
• Openness to discuss both security and development cooperation across insecure
border regions, based on shared goals of
citizen security, justice, and jobs rather
than purely on military operations. Crossborder development programming could
simply involve special arrangements to
share lessons. But it could also move toward formal joint arrangements to design
and monitor development programs in
insecure border areas and move toward
specific provisions to help insecure landlocked areas gain access to markets.
• Joint processes to investigate and prosecute incidents of corruption that can fuel
violence, as Haiti and Nigeria have done
(with the United States and the United
Kingdom) to combat corruption and
money-laundering.68 These can build capacity in weaker jurisdictions and deliver
results that could not be achieved by one
jurisdiction alone.

Mobilizing international support
Some constraints in international support
come from policies and systems established

in the headquarters of multilateral agencies
and donor countries. Actions on these issues
are discussed in Part 3 under Directions for
International Policy. National leaders and
their partners on the ground cannot individually determine these broader changes to the
international system, but they can maximize
the benefits of existing support.
It helps when national leaders and their
international partners in the field lay out
clear program priorities across the security,
justice, and development domains. Country
experiences indicate that efforts need to focus on only two or three rapid results to build
confidence, and on narrowly and realistically
defined institution-building. Priorities are
better laid out in a very limited number of
clear programs—such as community-based
interventions in insecure areas, security and
freedom of movement on key roads—as in
Liberia69 after the civil war and in Colombia70 in the face of criminal violence in 2002.
Using the national budget process to decide
on priority programs coordinates messages
and develops cooperation in implementation between the security and development
ministries.
National leaders can also produce better results from external assistance by being
alert to the needs of international partners
to show results and manage risks. International partners have their own domestic
pressures—to demonstrate that assistance is
not misused and to attribute results to their
endeavors. A frank exchange on risks and results helps to find ways to bridge differences.
In Indonesia in the aftermath of the Tsunami
and Aceh peace agreement, for example, the
government agreed with donors that incoming assistance would be “jointly branded” by
the Indonesian Reconstruction Agency and
donors, with special transparency measures
in place to enable both sides to show visible
results and manage risks while bolstering
the legitimacy of state-society relations in
the aftermath of crisis. A “double compact”
between governments and their citizens and
between states and their international partners, first proposed by Ashraf Ghani and

Overview

Clare Lockhart, is another way of managing
different perspectives on risk, the speed of
response, and long-term engagement with
national institutions—by making dual accountability of donor funds explicit.71

Monitoring results
To evaluate the success of programs and
adapt them when problems arise, national
reformers and their international partners in
country also need information on overall results in reducing violence, and on citizen confidence in security, justice, and employment
goals at regular intervals. For most developing countries, the MDGs and their associated targets and indicators are the dominant
international framework. The MDGs have
raised the profile of broad-based human development and remain important long-term
goals for countries facing fragility and violence. But they have drawbacks in their direct
relevance to progress in violence prevention
and recovery. They do not cover citizen security and justice. They move slowly, so they do
not provide national reformers or their international partners with rapid feedback loops
that can demonstrate areas of progress and
identify new or remaining risks.
A useful supplement to the MDGs would
be indicators that more directly measure
violence reduction, confidence-building and
citizen security and justice (Feature 4). Citizen polling data, glaringly absent in many
fragile and conflict-affected countries, could
help fill this role.72 Middle- and higherincome countries use polling all the time
to provide governments with feedback on
progress and risks, but it is little used in low-

income, fragile countries. Direct measurement of security improvements can also show
rapid progress, but while data on violent
deaths are fairly easy to collect, they are not
available for the countries that would benefit
most from them: low-income, fragile states.
Employment data also need to be upgraded.

Differentiating strategy and programs
to country context
While there is a basic set of tools emerging
from experience, each country needs to assess
its circumstances and adapt lessons from others to the local political context. Each country
faces different stresses, different institutional
challenges, different stakeholders who need
to be involved to make a difference, and different types of transition opportunities. The
differences are not black and white but occur
across a spectrum—each country will have
different manifestations of violence, different
combinations of internal or external stresses,
and different institutional challenges—and
these factors will change over time. But all
countries face some aspects of this mix. The
Report covers some of the most important
differences in country circumstances through
the simple differentiation shown below.
National reformers and their country
counterparts need to take two types of decisions in each phase of confidence-building
and institutional reform, taking into account
the local political context. First is to decide
the types of signals—both immediate actions
and announcements on early results and
longer-term policies—that can help build
“inclusive-enough” collaborative coalitions
for change. Second is to decide on the design

Spectra of situation-specific challenges and opportunities
Types of violence: Civil and/or criminal and/or cross-border and/or sub-national and/or ideological
Transition opportunity: Gradual/limited to
immediate/major space for change

Key stakeholders: Internal versus external
stakeholders; state versus nonstate stakeholders;
low-income versus middle-high income
stakeholders

Key stresses: Internal versus external stresses;
high versus low level of divisions among groups

Institutional challenges: Degree of capacity,
accountability, and inclusion

21

22

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

of priority programs to launch for institutional transformation.
In differentiating political and policy signals, the type of stresses faced and the stakeholders whose support is most needed for
effective action make a difference. Where
ethnic, geographical, or religious divides have
been associated with conflict, and the cooperation of these groups is critical to progress,
the credibility of appointments may rest on
whether individuals command respect across
group divides. Where corruption has been a
severe stress, the credibility of key appointments may rest on individuals’ reputation for
integrity.
The type of transition moment also makes
a difference. At the end of the wars in Japan
and the Republic of Korea, the birth of the
new nation of Timor-Leste, Liberia’s first
post-war election, military victory in Nicaragua, and in the aftermath of the Rwandan
genocide, there was greater space for rapid
announcements of long-term political, social, and institutional change than exists today for the coalition government in Kenya or
other situations of negotiated reform.
Institutional capacity, accountability, and
trust among groups also affect the choices and
timetable of early policy announcements. In
countries with institutions that are strong but
have been viewed as illegitimate because they
are exclusive, abusive, or unaccountable (as in
some transitions from authoritarian rule), action on transparency, participation, and justice may be more important for short-term
confidence-building than delivering goods
and services. Where social cohesion is factionalized, time may be needed to build trust
between groups before wider reform is attempted. In South Africa, for example, leaders
wisely allowed time for constitutional reform
and the development of trust between groups
before the first post-Apartheid election.73 And
in Northern Ireland the devolution of security and justice functions were delayed until
trust and accountability increased.74
A core message is that the particular
manifestation of violence at any one time
is less important than the underlying insti-

tutional deficits that permit repeated cycles
of violence—and that successful approaches
to address political, communal, and criminal violence have much in common. But the
mix of different types of violence does affect
strategy. Inequality among ethnic, religious,
or geographical groups is important as a
risk for civil conflict—employment programs
and services would thus target equity and
bridging opportunities among these groups.
But for organized criminal violence, inequality between rich and poor matters more (irrespective of ethnic or religious identities).
Violence with strong international links—
organized crime, international recruitment
into ideological movements—requires greater international cooperation.
Country circumstances also make a difference for program design, requiring the “bestfit” to local political conditions. For example, multisectoral community approaches
can be effective in contexts as different as
Côte d’Ivoire, Guatemala, and Northern
Ireland—but more care would be needed in
Côte d’Ivoire and Northern Ireland to ensure
that these approaches were not seen as targeted to one ethnic or religious group but, instead, as building bonds among groups. Both
Colombia and Haiti are considering reform
in the justice sector, but accountability and
capacity problems are a bigger challenge in
Haiti, and reforms would have to be designed
accordingly.75 For middle-income countries
with strong institutions facing challenges of
exclusion and accountability, lessons on program design, successes, and missed opportunities will come primarily from countries
that have faced similar circumstances, such as
the democratic transitions in Latin America,
Indonesia, Eastern Europe, or South Africa.
So national reformers and their international
partners need to think through the political
economy for interventions and adapt program design to that context (Feature 5).
Each country needs its own assessment
of risks and priorities to design the best-fit
strategy and programs for its political context. International assessment tools, such as
post-conflict/post-crisis needs assessments,

Overview

can identify the risks and priorities. These assessments could be strengthened by:
• Adapting assessments regularly and frequently at different transition moments,
including when risks are increasing, not
only after a crisis.
• Identifying the specific characteristics of
transition opportunities, stresses, institutional challenges, stakeholders, and the
institutions that provide citizen security,
justice, and jobs.
• Identifying priorities from a citizen and
stakeholder perspective through focus
groups or polling surveys, as South Africa
did in developing its reconstruction priorities or as Pakistan did in assessing the
sources of violence in the border regions.76
• Considering explicitly the history of past
efforts, as Colombia did in reviewing the
strengths and weaknesses of previous efforts to address violence in the early
2000s.77
• Being more realistic about the number of priorities identified and the timelines, as with the changes recommended
to the joint United Nations–World
Bank–European Union post-crisis needs
assessment.

PART 3: REDUCING THE
RISKS OF VIOLENCE—
DIRECTIONS FOR
INTERNATIONAL POLICY
International action has delivered great benefits in improved security and prosperity.
It is difficult to imagine how committed
leaders in post–World War II Europe, Indonesia, the Republic of Korea, Liberia,
Mozambique, Northern Ireland, or TimorLeste would have stabilized their countries
or regions without help from abroad. Many
individuals working on fragile and conflictaffected states are dedicated professionals
attempting to support national efforts. But

they are held back by structures, tools, and
processes designed for different contexts and
purposes. Specifically, while processes exist
to provide the kind of post-war assistance
typical of 20th-century paradigms, there
is little attention to helping countries that
struggle with prevention of repeated cycles
of political and criminal violence (Feature 6,
figure 6.1) and with the challenges involved
in transforming institutions to provide citizen security, justice, and jobs. Internal international agency processes are too slow, too
fragmented, too reliant on parallel systems,
and too quick to exit, and there are significant
divisions among international actors.
The range of preventive tools in the international system has improved, with increases
in global and regional mediation capacity78
and in programs that support both local
and national collaborative efforts to mediate
violence. Examples include the Ghana peace
committees supported by the UN Development Programme (UNDP) and the UN
Department of Political Affairs (UNDPA)79
and the Inter-American Development Bank
(IADB) community projects for citizen security. Such programs do often support activities relating to citizen security, justice, and
jobs, but they are not in the mainstream of
diplomatic, security, or development thinking. UN, regional, and NGO-sponsored mediation has played a significant role in a range
of cases—from AU-UN-ECOWAS mediation
in West Africa to UN facilitation of Afghanistan’s Bonn Agreement to nongovernmental
efforts such as the Centre for Humanitarian
Dialogue and the Crisis Management Initiative in Aceh.80
But these programs are still not delivered
to scale. It is much harder for countries to get
international assistance to support development of their police forces and judiciaries
than their militaries. International economic
development assistance is easier to obtain for
macroeconomic policy, health, or education
capacities than for job creation. UN police
capacity, doctrinal development, and training
have increased, but are not fully linked to justice capacities. While some bilateral agencies

23

24

FEATURE 5

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

Adapting community-level program design to country context

Countries: Afghanistan, Burundi, Cambodia,
Colombia, Indonesia, Nepal, Rwanda

T

he basic elements of a post-conflict community development program are simple and can be adapted to a broad
range of country contexts. All community programs under
state auspices consist, essentially, of a community decisionmaking mechanisms to determine priorities and the provision
of funds and technical help to implement them. Within this
model is a great deal of variance that can be adapted to different types of stresses and institutional capacities as well as
to different opportunities for transition. Three important
sources of variance are in how community decision-making is
done, who controls the funds, and where programs reside
within the government.
Different stresses and institutional capacity and accountability affect community decision-making. In many violent
areas, preexisting community councils either have been destroyed or were already discredited. A critical first step is
to reestablish credible participatory forms of representation.
In Burundi, for example, a local NGO organized elections for
representative community development committees in the
participating communes that cut across ethnic divides. Similarly, Afghanistan’s National Solidarity Program began with
village-wide elections for a community development council. But Indonesia’s programs for the conflict-affected areas
of Aceh, Maluku, Sulawesi, and Kalimantan did not hold new
community elections. Community councils were largely intact, and national laws already provided for local, democratic,
village elections. Indonesia also experimented with separating grants to Muslim and Christian villages to minimize intercommunal tensions, but eventually used common funds
and councils to bridge divides between these communities.
Different institutional challenges also affect who holds the
funds. Programs must weigh the trade-offs between a first
objective of building trust with the risks of money going missing or the elite capture of resources, as shown in the following
examples:
• In Indonesia, where local capacity was fairly strong, subdistrict councils established financial management units that
are routinely audited but have full responsibility for all aspects of financial performance.

• In Burundi, a lack of progress in overall decentralization and
difficulties in monitoring funds through community structures meant responsibility for managing the funds remained
with NGO partners.
• In Afghanistan’s National Solidarity Program, NGOs also
took on the initial responsibility for managing the funds
while councils were trained in bookkeeping, but within
a year block grants were being transferred directly to the
councils.
• In Colombia, where the primary institutional challenges
were to bring the state closer to communities and overcome
distrust between security and civilian government agencies,
funds are held by individual government ministries but approvals for activities are made by multisectoral teams in field
offices.
• In Nepal, community programs show the full range: some
programs give primary responsibility for fund oversight to
partner NGOs; in other programs, such as the country’s
large-scale village school program, community school committees are the legal owners of school facilities and can use
government funds to hire and train their staff.
The type of transition moment affects how community
decision-making structures align with the formal government
administration. Many countries emerging from conflict will
also undergo major constitutional and administrative reforms
just as the early response community programs are being
launched. Aligning community councils with the emergent
structures of government can be difficult. In Afghanistan’s
National Solidarity Program, for example, the Community
Development Councils, though constituted under a 2007 vicepresidential bylaw, are still under review for formal integration into the national administrative structure. In Cambodia’s
Seila Program, councils were launched under United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) auspices and then moved
into the government’s newly formed commune structure. In
Rwanda, greater space for change after the genocide meant the
councils could be integrated into the government’s decentralization plans from the start.
Source: Guggenheim 2011.

Overview

provide specialized assistance for security and
justice reform, their capacities are relatively
new and underdeveloped in comparison with
other areas. International financial institutions and bilateral economic assistance tends
to focus primarily on growth rather than employment. Citizen security and justice are not
mentioned in the MDGs.
The programs described above all require
linked action by diplomatic, security, and
development—and sometimes humanitarian—actors. Yet these actors generally assess
priorities and develop their programs separately, with efforts to help national reformers
build unified programs the exception rather
than the rule. UN “integrated missions” and
various bilateral and regional “whole-ofgovernment” and “whole-of-systems” initiatives have emerged to address the challenge
of merging development, diplomatic, and
security strategies and operations.81 But different disciplines bring with them different
goals, planning timeframes, decision-making
processes, funding streams and types of risk
calculus.82
Assistance is often slow to arrive despite
efforts of the UN, the international financial institutions, and bilateral donors to establish quick-disbursing and rapid deployment facilities. Aid is fragmented into small
projects, making it difficult for governments
to concentrate efforts on a few key results.
In 11 fragile countries the Organisation
for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) surveyed in 2004, there was
an average of 38 activities per donor, with
each project an average size of just US$1.1
million—too small for the most part to have
an impact on the challenges of institutional
transformation.83 Aid donors often operate
in fragile countries through systems parallel
to national institutions—with separate project units for development aid and with humanitarian programs implemented through
international NGOs. Despite progress in extending the time horizons of peacekeeping
missions and some types of donor assistance,
the system is constrained by a short-term focus on post-conflict opportunities and high
volatility in assistance.84 In a recent European

Commission survey of assistance to Cambodia, more than 35 percent of all projects were
less than one year in duration, and 66 percent
were less than three years. Despite the need
for more consistent and sustained assistance,
aid to fragile states is much more volatile
than that to nonfragile states—indeed, more
than twice as volatile, with an estimated loss
in efficiency of 2.5 percent of GDP for recipient states (Feature 6, figures F6.2 and F6.3).85
Regional and global action on external stresses is a key part of risk reduction,
but assistance is still focused primarily at
the individual country level. Some innovative processes against trafficking combine
demand-side and supply-side incentives and
the efforts of multiple stakeholders in developed and developing countries86—one is
the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme
to stem the sale of conflict diamonds.87 Yet a
general principle of co-responsibility, combining demand-side and supply-side actions
and cooperation between developed and developing regions, is lacking. Existing efforts
suffer from weakness and fragmentation
in the financial systems used to “follow the
money” flowing from corrupt transactions.
And they are constrained by a multiplication of weak and overlapping multicountry endeavors rather than strong and wellresourced regional approaches. Despite some
exceptions—the Asian Development Bank
and European Union long-standing regional
programs, the UN Department of Political
Affairs regional offices, and recent increases
in regional lending by the World Bank—
most development donors focus primarily
on national rather than regional support.
The international landscape is becoming
more complex. The end of the Cold War had
the potential to usher in a new age of consensus in international support to violence and
conflict-affected areas. In fact, the last decade
has seen an increase in complexity and continued coordination problems. The political,
security, humanitarian, and development actors present in each country situation have
become more numerous. Legal agreements
that set standards for responsible national
leadership have become more complicated

25

26

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

over time: the 1948 UN Convention Against
Genocide has 17 operative paragraphs; the
2003 Convention Against Corruption has
455. Within OECD countries, there are divided views over the relative role of security
and development assistance and over aid
through national institutions. The increase
in assistance from middle-income countries,
with a history of solidarity support, not only
brings valuable new energy, resources, and
ideas, but also new challenges in the differing views of international partners. WDR
consultations frequently revealed divided
views among national actors, regional bodies, middle-income countries, and OECD
donors over what is realistic to expect from
national leadership in improving governance,
over what time period, and over the “forms”
versus the “functions” of good governance
(elections versus broader democratic practices and processes; minimizing corruption in
practice versus establishing procurement laws
and anticorruption commissions).
Dual accountability is at the heart of international behavior. International actors
know that faster, smarter, longer-term engagement through national and regional
institutions is needed to help societies exit
fragility. But as highlighted by the OECD
International Network on Conflict and Fragility,88 they are also acutely sensitive to the
risks of domestic criticism of waste, abuse,
FIGURE 3.1

corruption, and a lack of results in donor
programs. International actors need to be
accountable to their citizens and taxpayers as
well as to partner country needs, and these
expectations can be at odds (figure 3.1).
The slow progress in changing donor behavior comes from these underlying incentives. For example, undertaking small projects through parallel systems, focusing on the
“form rather than function” of change (with
an emphasis on elections, model procurement
laws, and anti-corruption and human rights
commissions), and avoiding engagements in
riskier institution-building—all help donors
to manage domestic expectations of results
and criticism of failure. In today’s tight fiscal
environment for many donors, the dilemma
is becoming more prominent, not less. Domestic pressures also contribute to divisions
among donors, since some donors face far
more domestic pressure than others on corruption, gender equity, or the need to show
economic benefits at home from aid overseas.
Accountability to taxpayers is a desirable facet
of donor aid—but the challenge is to make
domestic expectations fit with the needs and
realities of assistance on the ground.
Multilateral responses are also constrained
by historical arrangements suited to more
stable environments. For example, the international financial institutions’ procurement
procedures were based on the assumption of

The dual accountability dilemma for donors
engaged in fragile and conflict environments

National
actors

Accountability

International
actors

Accountability

Source: WDR team.

Accountability

Accountability
Domestic constituencies

Different perspectives of
risks and results

Domestic constituencies
and governing boards

27

Overview

FEATURE 6

Patterns of international assistance to violence-affected countries

Uneven international support in West Africa—Post-conflict trumps prevention

F I G U R E F 6.1

Total aid and peacekeeping expenditure
per capita (current US$)

A one-oﬀ concept of progress and the diﬃ culties of prevention have led to an excessive focus on post-conﬂict transitions.
The amount of aid and peacekeeping assistance going to countries after civil war has ended greatly exceeds what is p rovided
to countries struggling to prevent an escalation of conﬂict.
450
400
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
Liberia
(highlighted
period 2004
to 2008)

Sierra Leone
(highlighted
period 2000
to 2003)

Guinea
(highlighted
period 2008)

Guinea-Bissau
(highlighted
period 2002
to 2005)

T
Togo
(highlighted
period 2005
to 2008)

Global
average for
low-income
countries

West Africa, selected countries (2000 to 2008)

Source: WDR team calculations based on OECD 2010d.

Coeﬃcient of variance of net ODA,
excluding debt relief

Over the last 20 years, countries that experienced longer periods of
fragility, violence, or conﬂict experienced more volatility in their aid.
Figure 6.2 shows that the coeﬃcient of variance of net oﬃcial development assistance (ODA), excluding debt relief, is higher for countries that
have experienced prolonged violence since 1990. This relationship,
reﬂected by the upward trend line, is statistically signiﬁcant and suggests that, on average, a country that experienced 20 years of violence
experienced twice the volatility in aid of a country that did not experience violence. Volatility of revenues has considerable costs for all
governments, but particularly so in f ragile situations where it may
derail reform eﬀorts and disrupt institution-building.
1.4
1.2
1
0.8

FIGURE F6.3

Stop-go aid: Volatility in selected fragile
states

The four countries below provide an illustration. It was not uncommon
for total aid to Burundi, the Central African Republic, Guinea-Bissau,
and Haiti to drop by 20 or 30 percent in one year and increase by up to
50 percent the following year (humanitarian aid and debt relief,
excluded from these statistics, would further increase the volatility).
Annual % change in aid per capita

Aid volatility increases with duration of
violence

F I G U R E F 6.2

150
100
50
0
–50
–100
1996

0.6

1998
Burundi
Guinea-Bissau

0.4

2000

2002

2004

Central African Republic
Haiti

0.2

Source: WDR team calculations based on OECD 2010d.

0
0

2

4

6

8

10

12

14

16

18

20

Number of years of high homicides, conﬂict, and fragility
Low-income countries

Linear (Low-income countries)

Source: WDR team calculations based on OECD 2010d.

2006

2008

28

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

ongoing security, a reasonable level of state
institutional capacity, and competitive markets. They thus have difficulty adapting to
situations where security conditions change
between the design and tendering of a project, where a small number of qualified government counterparts struggle to manage
complex procurement documentation, and
where the number of qualified contractors
prepared to compete and mobilize is very limited. Similarly, the UN Secretariat originally
developed procurement systems designed for
its function as a headquarters-based advisory
service and secretariat to the General Assembly. But when peacekeeping operations were
launched, these systems were extended with
relatively little adaptation, despite the difference in contexts and objectives.
To achieve real change in approaches that
can restore confidence and prevent risks from
recurring, international actors could consider four tracks to improve global responses
for security and development as follows:
• Track 1: Provide more, and more integrated, specialized assistance for citizen
security, justice, and jobs—targeting prevention in both immediate post-conflict
and rising risk situations.
• Track 2: Reform internal agency systems
to provide rapid action to restore confidence and promote long-term institutionbuilding, in support of national efforts.
• Track 3: Act regionally and globally on
external stresses.
• Track 4: Marshal support from lower-,
middle-, and higher-income countries,
and global and regional institutions, to reflect the changing landscape of international policy and assistance.

Track 1: Providing specialized
assistance for prevention through
citizen security, justice, and jobs
Security-development linkages apply in all
areas struggling to prevent large-scale political or criminal violence. Both political and

criminal violence require “outside the box”
thinking, outside the traditional development
paradigm. Issues of citizen security and of
grievances over justice and jobs are not peripheral to “mainstream” development. They
are in varying forms a problem for larger and
more prosperous countries facing subnational
urban or rural violence, for countries emerging from conflict and fragility that need to prevent recurrence, and for areas facing new or
resurgent threats of social protest and instability. Strengthening the institutions that provide
citizen security, justice, and jobs is crucial to
prevention of violence and instability—such
action is not a “magic bullet” that can prevent
every episode of violence with certainty, but it
is crucial to changing the probabilities of violence, and to continuous risk reduction.
A key lesson of successful violence prevention and recovery is that security, justice,
and economic stresses are linked: approaches
that try to solve them through military-only,
justice-only, or development-only solutions
will falter. A specialized suite of programs
is needed in fragile environments, combining elements of security, justice, and economic transformation. But because these
areas are covered by different international
agencies, both bilaterally and multilaterally,
combined action under one overall program framework is rare. A specialized suite
of combined security-justice-development
programs needs to aim at a catalytic effect,
supporting national collaborative efforts to
address these challenges. Changes in international agency approaches to support such
programs would include (figure 3.2).
• Moving from sporadic early warning to
continued risk assessment wherever weak
institutional legitimacy, and internal or
external stresses indicate a need for attention to prevention and to capacities for
peaceful reform processes.
• Simplifying current assessment and planning mechanisms to provide countries
with one process supporting national
planning that covers the political, justice,
security, humanitarian, and developmental areas.

Overview

F I G U R E 3.2

Combined action across the security, development, and humanitarian spheres for external actors to
support national institutional transformations
CITIZEN
SECURITY,
JUSTICE,
AND JOBS
EXTERNAL
STRESS
RE

R
TO

S

ENC E

NS

T

E NCE

UT

I

E NC E

ST

TI

ST

I

ON

IT

IN

FI D
CON

TU

IN

VIOLENCE and
FRAGILITY

TI

GI

FI D
CON

IN G

TRANSFORMING
TU

FID
CON

I NG

R
TO

S

TRANSFOR MING

RE

IN G

R
TO

S

TRANSFORMIN

RE

ON

IO

NS

A NEW WAY OF DOING BUSINESS
Moving from early warning to continuous
risk assessment

S

S

EXTERNAL SUPPORT
AND INCENTIVES

On budget support and technical assistance
for citizen security and justice in joint teams
Financing in support of collaborative, mediated
agreements
Unified planning processes

diplomatic

development

security

humanitarian

State-community, state-NGO, state-private sector
programs for service delivery and multi-sectoral
violence prevention
Humanitarian support for state protection systems

Source: WDR team.

• Shifting from the rhetoric of coordination
to supporting combined programs for security, justice, and local jobs and associated
services, each within their respective mandates and expertise. Two priorities for
combined programs are—
➢ Technical assistance and financing
for security and justice reforms supported by combined teams. Development agencies, for example, can support measures to address budget and
expenditure processes in security and
justice functions, while partners with
security and justice expertise can contribute to technical capacity-building,
as was done in Timor-Leste in the runup to independence.89
➢ Multisectoral community programs
that involve policing and justice as well
as development activities, such as the
initiatives in Latin America to provide

local dispute resolution and justice
services, community policing, employment and training, safe public and
trading spaces, and social and cultural
programs that promote tolerance.
• Establishing facilities for mediators and
special envoys (internal and international)
to draw on greater seconded expertise
from international agencies, both to inform transition arrangements and to galvanize resources for integrated activities
identified collaboratively by the different
parties to a conflict situation. This should
include specific efforts to support the
growing role of regional and subregional
institutions, such as AU and ECOWAS, by
providing them with specific links to development expertise.
• Considering when humanitarian aid
can be integrated into national systems
without compromising humanitarian

29

30

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

principles—building on existing good
practice by UNDP, UN Children’s Fund
(UNICEF), World Health Organization
(WHO), World Food Programme (WFP),
and others in combining humanitarian
delivery with capacity-building, using
local personnel and community structures, and purchasing food locally.
Implementing these programs would require systemic changes in international capacity. Citizen security and justice require new
and interlinked capacities to address repeated
waves of political and criminal violence. The
starting point for deeper capacity in this area
is government investment in standby, pretrained personnel for a range of executive and
advisory police, corrections, and justice functions. States will need police and justice reserves to respond effectively to contemporary
violence, drawing on retired personnel, active
service volunteers, and formed police units in
some countries. Second, these capacities must
be trained, and able to deploy, under shared
doctrine to address the challenges of coherence presented by different national policing
models. Increased investment through the
UN and regional centers in the development
of joint doctrine and pretraining of government capacities would increase effectiveness
and reduce incoherence.
Third, linking military and policing assistance with justice assistance is crucial, since
disconnects have been a pervasive source
of problems in fragile situations. So is linking criminal justice assistance with help for
local justice services such as land and property disputes.90 Fourth, it is important that
new capacities provide a full range of services
to countries facing challenges—from coresponsibility for policing or justice functions
authorized by the UN Security Council or regional institutions, to police units and judicial
personnel provided at the request of governments but without a corresponding intrusive
mandate from global or regional institutions,
to advisory, financing, and training services.
Last, ownership for justice reform work
should be clarified in the international structure to enable multilateral and bilateral agen-

cies to invest in developing the requisite capacity and expertise. There are areas where, at the
request of government, the World Bank and
other institutional financial institutions (IFIs)
could consider playing a greater role in supporting the developmental underpinnings of
violence prevention within their mandates—
such as the links between public financial
management and security sector reform and
institution-building, legal administration, justice systems development and multisectoral
approaches at the community level that combine community policing and justice services
with social cohesion, developmental and employment creation programs. But the IFIs are
not equipped to lead specialized international
support in these areas. A clear lead within the
UN system would help this effort.
Agencies with economic expertise need
to pay more attention to jobs. National
community-based public works programs
should receive greater and longer-term support in fragile situations, in recognition of the
time required for the private sector to absorb
youth unemployment. Other priority programs for job creation include investments in
supporting infrastructure, in particular, electricity and transit. A third program cluster is
those that invest in skills and work experience;
develop links between producers, traders, and
consumers; and expand access to finance
and assets, for example, through low-income
housing. Current international financial institutions and UN initiatives focused on employment creation should explicitly address
the specific needs of areas affected by fragility,
conflict, and violence, recognizing that job
creation in these situations may go beyond
material benefits by providing a productive
role and occupation for youth, and evaluating and expanding the examples of bestfit employment policies in fragile situations
presented in this Report. Global employment
work should include re-focusing on the risks
posed by youth employment.
These approaches would help. But there
is likely to be continued pressure from large
youth unemployed populations unless a more
significant international effort is launched.

Overview

A bolder approach could draw together capacities from development agencies, the private sector, foundations, and NGOs in a new
global partnership to galvanize investments
in countries and communities where high
unemployment and social disengagement
contribute to the risks of conflict. Focusing
primarily on job creation through project finance, advisory support to small and medium
businesses, training and work placement, and
guarantees, the initiative could also support
social and cultural initiatives that promote
good governance, collaborative capacities in
communities, social tolerance, and recognition of young people’s social and economic
roles. Private-sector capacities to draw on
would include large companies that trade and
invest in insecure areas (creating links with
local entrepreneurs), as well as technology
companies that can assist with connectivity
and training in remote insecure areas.

Track 2: Transforming procedures
and risk and results management
in international agencies
To implement rapid, sustained, and integrated programs for citizen security, justice,
and jobs, international agencies need internal reforms. For the g7+ group of leaders of
conflict-affected and fragile states who have
begun to meet regularly as part of the International Dialogue on Peacebuilding and
Statebuilding, reforming internal agency
procedures, particularly procurement procedures, was the number one suggestion for international reform.91 International agencies
cannot respond quickly to restore confidence
or provide deep institutional support if their
budget, staffing, approval, and contracting
procedures take months and set unrealistic
prerequisites for recipient institutional capacity. International agency systems would
require fundamental changes to implement
these programs effectively, based on the following four principles (how to approach implementing these is covered in Feature 7):
• Accept the links between security and development outcomes.

• Base fiduciary processes on the real world
in fragile and violence-affected situations:
insecurity, lack of competitive markets,
and weak institutions.
• Balance the risks of action with the risks of
inaction.
• Expect a degree of failure in programs that
require innovation and engagement with
weak institutions in risky environments,
and adapt accordingly.
Donor risk management also relies primarily on headquarters controls rather than
“best-fit” delivery mechanisms adapted to
local conditions. This approach may manage donor risk, but it constrains real progress
in institution-building on the ground. An
alternative is to embrace faster engagement
through national institutions, but vary the
ways aid is delivered to manage risks and results. Some donors have a higher risk tolerance and will be able to choose modes that go
more directly through national budgets and
institutions; others will need greater oversight or nonstate involvement in delivery.
Three complementary options:
• Vary the oversight and delivery mechanisms when engaging through national
institutions. Oversight mechanisms to
adapt to risk include shifting from budget support to “tracked” expenditure
through government systems,92 and from
regular reporting and internal control
mechanisms to independent financial
monitoring agents, independent monitoring of complaints, and independent
technical agents. Variations in delivery
mechanisms include community structures, civil society, the private sector, the
UN, and other international executing
agencies in delivering programs jointly
with state institutions.
• In situations of more extreme risk, where
donors would normally disengage, have
executive capacity supplement national
control systems, as with “dual key” mechanisms, where international line manage-

31

32

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

REFLECTIONS FROM ADVISORY COUNCIL MEMBERS: 2011 WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT
F E AT U R E 7

Internal agency reform

Quick action? Ghana helps restore electricity in Liberia
Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, President of Liberia; WDR Advisory Council Member
After the 2005 election in Liberia, the new government
announced a 100-day plan that included the restoration of
electricity to certain areas of the capital to help restore
conﬁdence in the state and jumpstart recovery in economic
activities and basic services. With ECOWAS support, the
Liberian government approached various donors to help,
since the new government lacked resources and institutional capacity for implementation. None of the traditional
donors, which included the United Nations, the World Bank,
the African Development Bank, the European Union, and
USAID, were able to provide the generators needed for this
endeavor within the desired timeframe under their regular
systems. The Liberian government was eventually successful in securing help from the Government of Ghana, which

provided two generators that helped restore electricity in
some urban areas.
The Liberian experience points to two key lessons. First is
the need for early consultation between national governments
and international partners on realism in delivering quick results
and demonstrating progress to local populations. Second is the
challenge of rigidities in donor systems unable to provide particular types of assistance fast. In fact, the EU, USAID, and the
World Bank were able to provide other types of support (fuel,
transmission line restoration) for the electricity system within
the 100 days, but none of the donors were able to cover the
speciﬁc need for generators. Indeed, there is a need to rethink
existing policies and processes, to modify what I call procedural
conformism for countries in crisis situations.

WDR Note: Options for applying the WDR principles for internal agency reform in
different contexts
Accepting the
links between
security and
development
outcomes

Economic and social interventions in situations of insecurity can justiﬁably be designed to contribute
to citizen security and justice outcomes (in the Liberia electricity program above, an increase in
citizen trust in government would have been an appropriate measure of program success, rather
than the sustainability of the electricity provision). Security programs can also be designed to
contribute to development outcomes (an increase in trade, for example). This would require agencies
to use outcome measure outside their traditional “technical” domains and work together within the
combined program frameworks described above.

Base budget
and ﬁduciary
processes on
the real world:
insecurity, lack
of perfectly
competitive
markets, and
weak institutions

When insecurity is high, both the costs and beneﬁts of interventions may change dramatically over
a short period. This argues for greater ﬂexibility in administrative budget and staﬀ planning. In
program budgets, it implies careful sequencing wherein some programs will be more beneﬁcial at a
later date, but also placing high weight on speed (over some cost-eﬃciency and quality concerns) in
contracting where beneﬁts to fast action are high. Where competitive markets are very thin and not
transparent, diﬀerent procurement controls—such as pre-tendering internationally under variable
quantity contracts, or contracting processes that allow direct negotiations with knowledge of regional
markets—can be appropriate. Where institutional capacity is insuﬃcient, procedures need to be
distilled to the simplest level of due process, together with ﬂexible mechanisms to execute some
activities on behalf of recipient institutions.

Balance risks of
action with risks
of inaction

Outside the realm of natural disasters, international actors often tend to be more sensitive to the
risk that their support will backﬁre into criticisms of wastage or abuses than to the risk that delays in
their support will increase the potential for violence or derail promising reform eﬀorts. Decentralizing
greater responsibility and accountability to international staﬀ on the ground can increase
responsiveness to the risks of inaction. Transparent publication of achievements against target
timelines for donor funds release and activities—and reasons for delays—would also help.

Expect a degree
of failure in
programs in risky
environments,
and adapt
accordingly

Because returns to successful programs are high, international assistance can aﬀord a higher failure
rate in violent situations. This is not how most assistance works, however: donors expect the same
degree of success in risky environments as in secure ones. A better approach is to adapt private-sector
principles for venture capital investment to support for fragile and violence-aﬀected situations: pilot
many diﬀerent types of approaches to see which work best; accept a higher failure rate; evaluate
rigorously and adapt quickly; and scale up approaches that are working.

Overview

ment capacity works alongside national
actors and agency processes governed by
joint national and international boards.
Not all governments will wish to take up
these options. Where they do not, using
local personnel and community structures for delivering humanitarian, economic, and social programs still maintains some focus on local institutional
capacity, mitigating the brain-drain of local skills overseas.
• Increase the contingencies in budgets,
under transparent planning assumptions.
Where governance is volatile, development
program budgets, as well as the budgets for
political and peacekeeping missions, would
benefit from greater contingency measures
so that activities and delivery mechanisms
can be adjusted when new risks and opportunities emerge without disrupting overall
support. The planning assumptions for
such contingencies—for example, that additional oversight mechanisms will be adopted if certain agreed measures of governance deteriorate—should be transparent
to both recipient governments and the governing bodies of international agencies.
To achieve results at scale, pooling funds in
multidonor trust funds is also an effective option, since it provides recipient governments
with larger single programs and international
partners with a way to support programs that
greatly exceed their own national contribution. It can also be an effective way to pool
risks, shifting the burden of responsibility
for risks of waste, abuse, or corruption from
the shoulders of each individual donor to the
multilateral system. Multidonor trust funds
have delivered excellent results in some situations—funding, for example, a range of highimpact programs in Afghanistan through
the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund
(ARTF) and the Law and Order Trust Fund
for Afghanistan (LOTFA), supporting essential start-up and system maintenance costs
for the nascent Palestinian Authority under
the Holst Fund in the mid-1990s in West
Bank Gaza, or serving as catalytic funding in

Nepal under the auspices of the Peacebuilding Commission.93 But the performance of
multidonor trust funds is mixed, with criticisms ranging from slowness to a lack of expectation management and mixed success
in working through national systems.94 The
combined security-justice-development programs and internal agency reforms described
above would help to mitigate this risk.
International agencies need to think carefully about how to lengthen the duration of
assistance to meet the realities of institutional
transformation over a generation without
raising costs. For humanitarian programs in
prolonged crises, building on existing initiatives to support local staffing, local purchases,
and community-based delivery can increase
the impact on institution-building and lower
unit costs. For peacekeeping, there is potential
for greater use of more flexible arrangements,
including over-the-horizon security guarantees, where external forces outside the country either supplement forces on the ground
during tense periods or extend the leverage
of external peacekeeping after missions are
drawn down—as suggested in inputs to this
Report from the AU and the UN Department
of Peacekeeping Operations. Better resourcing for mediation and diplomatic facilitation
is also an easy win, since it is low cost and can
reduce the probabilities of conflict.
For development agencies, reducing the
volatility of flows to programs delivering results in citizen security, justice, and jobs—or
simply preserving social cohesion and human
and institutional capacity—can increase impact without increasing the overall cost. As already described, volatility greatly reduces aid
effectiveness, and it is twice as high for fragile
and conflict-affected countries as for other
developing countries, despite their greater
need for persistence in building social and
state institutions. There are options for reducing volatility, including providing threshold amounts of aid based on appropriate
modalities (as described by Advisory Council
member Paul Collier in chapter 9), topping
up aid allocations to the most fragile states
when specific types of programs have demon-

33

34

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

strated the ability to deliver effectively and at
scale (as proposed in a recent working paper
by the Centre for Global Development),95 and
dedicating a target percentage of assistance
to larger and longer-term programs in fragile
and conflict-affected states under the Development Assistance Committee framework.
To close the loop on internal agency reforms, results indicators should be more
closely geared to priorities in fragile and
violence-affected situations. The core tools
for national actors and their international
counterparts include proposed indicators to
better capture both short- and longer-term
progress, supplementing the MDGs (see Feature 4). The use of these indicators by international agencies—across the diplomatic,
security, and aid divides—would increase the
incentives for more integrated responses.

Track 3: Acting regionally and
globally to reduce external stresses
on fragile states
Effective action against illegal trafficking
requires co-responsibility by producing and
consuming countries. To stem the farreaching impact of illegal trafficking, it must
be recognized that effective action by one
country alone will simply push the problem
to other countries, and that regional and
global approaches are needed. For trafficking where the supply, processing, or retail
markets are concentrated and easily monitored—such as diamond trafficking—interdiction efforts combined with multistakeholder producer and consumer campaigns
can be effective. In addition to the Kimberley Process for diamonds and the Extractive
Industries Transparency Initiative, the new
Natural Resource Charter and a recent
World Bank/UN Conference on Trade and
Development (UNCTAD)/Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) initiative on
standards for international land purchases
have similar potential. For drug trafficking,
the situation is complicated by highly fragmented illegal production sites and processing facilities. Supply-side and interdiction

actions alone are constrained in these circumstances, and competition between gangs
and cartels produces high levels of violence
in production and transit countries. Exploring the costs and benefits of different combinations of demand- and supply-side measures would be a first step to underpinning
more decisive demand-side actions.
Following the money—tracking illicit
financial flows—is at the heart of action
against the illegal trafficking of drugs and
natural resources. For areas seriously affected
by illegal trafficking and corruption, such
as Central America and West Africa, most
countries have nothing approaching the
national capacity needed to gather and process information on sophisticated financial
transactions, or to investigate and prosecute
offenders. Along with initiatives that help to
support a global community to address corruption issues, such as the International Corruption Hunters Alliance and the Stolen Asset Recovery Initiative (StAR), the following
two key measures could help in this effort:
• Strengthen the capacity to conduct strategic analysis of these flows in a critical mass
of countries with the majority of global financial transfers. About 15 major financial
markets and hubs play this role. Concerted
efforts to strengthen the openness of financial centers and financial intelligence
unit capacities, as well as to proactively
analyze suspicious flows, and exchange information could greatly increase the global
ability to detect illicit financial flows and to
recover stolen assets. Global financial institutions could also perform strategic analysis and make it available to affected countries. To respect privacy, this could be based
on shifts in aggregate flows rather than individual account information.
• Expand commitments from developed
states and financial centers to joint investigations with law enforcement authorities
in fragile and violence-affected countries.
As part of this commitment, they could
also undertake capacity-building programs
with law enforcement authorities in fragile

Overview

states—as with the U.K.-Nigeria and U.S.Haiti examples above.96
Regional action can also target positive
opportunities. Donors could increase their
financial and technical support for crossborder and regional infrastructure—and
various forms of regional administrative
and economic cooperation—giving priority
to violence-affected regions. Such support
could take the following forms:
• Cross-border development programming.
International actors could support more
closely opportunities for cross-border activities that integrate action on citizen
security, justice, and jobs. Even where
regional or cross-border political collaboration is less well established, international
support for cross-border programming
may still be able to support and respond to
bilateral government efforts, using development issues such as trade and transit
infrastructure or cross-border health programs to support a gradual increase in
trust. Special financial provision for access
of fragile landlocked regions to markets,
as has recently been agreed upon by the
World Bank’s governing structures, is another way to encourage developmental
cooperation across borders.
• Shared regional administrative capacity.
Pooling subregional administrative capacities can allow states to develop institutional capabilities they could not manage
on their own. There are already good examples of shared courts in the Caribbean
and shared central banking capacity in
West Africa.97 While these initiatives take
time to establish, they supplement difficult
national institutional transformations and
merit assistance from regional and international development institutions.
Rather than these somewhat incremental approaches to specific cross-border initiatives, international donors could take a
larger step to finance regional approaches.
The principle of such an initiative would be
to build on the local political knowledge and

legitimacy of regional institutions, in combination with the technical and financial capacity of global agencies. Delivered through
regional institutions in collaboration with
global agencies, such an effort could adapt
lessons from those initiatives that have already successfully pooled regional capacity. It
could also draw lessons from existing crossborder cooperation, such as the Greater Mekong subregion,98 West Africa’s initiatives on
trafficking and economic integration,99 and
the European Union’s programs100 for previously conflict-affected border regions. It
would support political initiatives of regional
institutions (such as the African Union’s
Border Program101 and ASEAN’s subregional
initiatives),102 with financial and technical
expertise from global partners.
Further research is also needed to track the
impacts of climate change on weather, land
availability and food prices, each of which
can impact in turn on conflict risk. Current
research does not suggest that climate change
itself will drive conflict, except perhaps where
rapidly deteriorating water availability cuts
across existing tensions and weak institutions.
But a series of inter-linked problems—changing global patterns of consumption of energy
and scarce resources, increasing demand for
food imports (which draw on land, water and
energy inputs), and the repurposing of land
for climate adaptation—are increasing pressures on fragile states. These warrant further
research and policy attention.

Track 4: Marshaling support from
lower-, middle-, and higher-income
countries and global and regional
institutions, to reflect the changing
landscape of international policy
and assistance
The landscape of international assistance in
fragile and violence-affected countries has
changed in the last 20 years, with more aid
and policy input from middle-income countries with a history of solidarity support.
Several regional institutions are also playing

35

36

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

a greater role in security and development
issues. Yet, discussions of global conflict and
violence, the norms of responsible leadership
to respond to it, and the shape of international assistance have been driven more by
northern than southern actors. The International Dialogue on Peacebuilding and Statebuilding has been created to help address this
deficit.
The WDR team conducted wide-ranging
consultations with violence-affected countries, regional policy makers, and regional
institutions, as well as with traditional donor partners. It found many areas of agreement—such as the focus on institutionbuilding and governance and on citizen
security, justice, and jobs—but also some
areas of difference. As described earlier, these
differences included what it is realistic to
expect in terms of responsible national leadership in improving governance, and over
what time period, and over the “forms” versus the “functions” of good governance. Perceived double standards were also criticized
by WDR interlocutors, who reflected a sentiment that donor countries and organizations
that have faced their own internal governance challenges could approach shortcomings in fragile developing states with more
humility. Developed countries are not immune to corruption, bribery, human rights
abuses, or failures to account adequately for
public finances. So effective implementation
of standards of good governance is also a
challenge in advanced countries, even more
so when the international community has
played an executive government or security
role in violence-affected areas.
Lack of concerted support for the norms
of responsible leadership is a concern, because progress in global norms is crucial for
reducing the risk of violence. Regional and
global standards, as well as recognition and
sanction mechanisms in constitutionality,
human rights, and corruption, have provided support and incentives for national
reformers, particularly where the capacity
of the domestic system to provide rewards
and accountability is weak. For example, the

Lomé Declaration in 2000, which established
African standards and a regional response
mechanism to unconstitutional changes in
government, has been associated with a reduction in coups d’état from 15 in the 1990s
to 5 in the 2000s;103 and, despite an increase
in coups in the last five years, continental action to restore constitutional government has
been consistently strong.
Some modest actions could strengthen
collaboration among higher-, middle-, and
lower-income countries on shared problems
of violence and development, both global
and local, as follows:
• Increase both South-South and SouthNorth exchanges. South-South exchanges
have enormous potential to provide relevant capacity and lessons in current fragile
and violence-affected situations.104 Lowand middle-income countries that have
gone through their own recent experiences of transition have much to offer to
their counterparts—as demonstrated in
this Report, where Latin American countries offered perspectives on urban violence prevention and security and justice
reforms, China on job creation, India on
local public works and democratic practices, and Southeast Asian and African
countries on community driven development in conflict areas. Yet South-North
exchanges are also important. While institutional capacities differ, many northern
and southern countries, provinces, and
cities face some similar stresses. Program
approaches—such as addressing trafficking, reintegrating ex-gang members and
disengaged young people, and fostering
tolerance and social bonds among communities that are ethnically or religiously
divided—will have lessons relevant for
others. Such exchanges would increase
understanding that the challenges of violence are not unique to developing countries and that developing countries are not
alone in struggling to find solutions.
• Better align international assistance behind regional governance efforts. When

Overview

regional institutions take the initiative,
as with the AU on constitutionality or
ASEAN in certain conflict and natural disaster situations (Feature 8), they have
great comparative advantage in traction
with their member states. The potential
convening role of regional institutions was
also widely recognized in WDR consultations by higher-, middle-, and lowerincome country interlocutors alike. Supporting regional platforms to discuss the
application of governance norms is an effective way to increase ownership. Adopting clearer structures to discuss responses
to major improvements or deteriorations
in governance (such as coups d’états)
among bilateral and multilateral actors
would also improve information-sharing
and the potential for coordinated responses, without creating unacceptable binding
obligations on international actors.105
• Expand initiatives to recognize responsible leadership. While there is always a role
for frank and transparent criticism, approaches from the North that are seen as
disproportionately focused on criticism
in fragile situations can be divisive. Initiatives such as the Ibrahim Prize for African
leadership could be emulated to recognize
leaders in different roles (for example,
ministers who have a lasting impact on
corruption or military leaders who implement successful security sector reform).
Multistakeholder initiatives such as the
Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative could consider provisions to recognize individual leaders or leadership
teams who have improved the transparency of resource revenues and expenditures, whether in governments, civil society, or companies.
More focused and realistic expectations of
the timetables for governance improvements
would also help bridge gaps in perspectives
among countries receiving international assistance, their middle- and higher-income
international partners, and global and regional institutions. This is particularly cru-

cial in light of recent social protests that
demonstrate strong grievances and expectations over governance change—that were
not picked up by standard analyses of security and of development progress. Indicators
are needed that focus on whether countries
are on track to make institutional and governance improvements within the realistic
generational timeframes that the faster reformers have achieved, and how citizens
perceive trends in the legitimacy and performance of national institutions across the
political security and development domains.
The indicators presented in Feature 4 would
be a simple way, as Louise Arbour suggests
(Feature 8), to compare progress, stagnation or deterioration. Ensuring that such
indicators measure outcomes rather than
just the form of institutions (laws passed,
anti-corruption commissions formed) is
also important to ensure that they encourage rather than suppress innovative national
action and that they foster learning among
low-, middle-, and high-income country
institutions. The UN Peacebuilding Commission, which brings together fragile states,
donors, troop-contributing countries, and
regional bodies, has unexploited potential
to advise on better tracking of progress and
risks, and realistic timelines for governance
transformation.
At the beginning of this overview, we
asked how piracy in Somalia, continuing violence in Afghanistan, new threats from drug
trafficking in the Americas, or conflict arising from social protests in North Africa can
happen in today’s world. The short answer
is that such violence cannot be contained
by short-term solutions that fail to generate
the institutions capable of providing people
with a stake in security, in justice, and in economic prospects. Societies cannot be transformed from the outside, and they cannot
be transformed overnight. But progress is
possible with consistent and concerted effort
by national leaders and their international
partners to strengthen the local, national,
and global institutions that support citizen
security, justice, and jobs.

37

38

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

REFLECTIONS FROM ADVISORY COUNCIL MEMBERS: 2011 WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT
F E AT U R E 8

Regional initiatives and norms and standards

ASEAN experience in crisis prevention and recovery
Surin Pitsuwan, Secretary-General ASEAN; WDR Advisory Council Member
There are many conﬂicts simmering in the ASEAN landscape.
But the region is not totally without its own experiences
in mediation and conﬂict resolution. ASEAN has played an
important role in endeavors. The ASEAN Troika in the Cambodian conﬂict of 1997–99, the Timor-Leste peace-keeping
operation of 1999 onward, the Aceh Reconciliation of 2005,
and the Myanmese Cyclone Nargis catastrophe of May 2008
were cases of mediation and eventual resolution where the
regions and some ASEAN member states have made valuable contributions and learned lessons from the process. It
has always been like putting pieces of a diplomatic jigsaw
together, weaving tapestry of peace, improvising the best
modality and pattern from the available and suitable materials at hand.
One important lesson for us is that our ASEAN structures
can play an important political convening role when there
are sensitivities with member states. There was a higher level
of mutual conﬁdence between Indonesia and of the ASEAN
states participating in the Timor-Leste operation. We got
around the rigid principle of “non-interference” by oﬀering
troops under a joint-command with an “ASEAN” military
leader taking an active leadership role. And Indonesia made
it easier for all ASEAN Partners by issuing an invitation to
come and assist. In Myanmar, ASEAN played a central role in
the dialogue with the Government after Cyclone Nargis,
helping to open up the aﬀected areas, where over 130,000
men, women and children had died and many more faced
traumatic conditions, to international aid.
A second lesson is that we can ﬁnd useful combinations
of capacity between our local knowledge and political con-

vening role, and the technical capacities of other partners. Our
work in support of recovery after Cyclone Narghis was supported by technical teams from the World Bank, and performed
in conjunction with the United Nations. In the Aceh Monitoring
Mission, we worked jointly with colleagues from the European
Union who brought valuable technical knowledge.
The third is that the more operations of this type that we
undertake, the more our capacity builds. In Timor-Leste, long
years of joint-military training and exercises between the Philippines, the Republic of Korea, and Thailand, and supported by
partners outside the region such as the US, paid oﬀ. The troops
on the ground could communicate, cooperate, and conduct
joint operations without any delay—but their experiences in
Timor-Leste also added to their capacity. In Myanmar, ASEAN’s
role meant drawing on personnel from many of our member
states, such as Indonesia, Singapore, and Thailand, who have
extensive experience of managing post-disaster recovery, and
also building capacity within our Secretariat. Linked to longterm programs of capacity-building with some of our donor
partners, these experiences make us more ready to face new
challenges in future. The cumulative results of these eﬀorts in
managing political conﬂicts and natural disaster relief have
helped ASEAN in enhancing its capacity to coordinate our
development cooperation strategies. We have learned to contain sporadic violence and tension in the region and would not
allow them to derail our community development eﬀorts aiming at common security and sustainable prosperity for our
people.

All the recommendations of this Report
have at their heart the concept of shared global
risk. Risks are evolving, with new threats to
stability arising from international organized
crime and global economic instability. The
landscape of international power relations
is also changing, as low- and middle-income
countries increase their share of global economic influence and their contributions to
global policy thinking. This shift requires a
fundamental rethink of the approaches of
international actors to manage global risks

collectively—and as equal partners. Real
change requires a strong rationale. But a dual
rationale exists: fragility and violence are
major obstacles to development and are no
longer confined to poor and remote areas
or cityscapes. This past decade has seen the
increasing penetration of instability in global
life—in terrorism, an expanding drug trade,
impact on commodity prices, and the rising
numbers of internationally mobile refugees.
Breaking cycles of repeated violence is thus
a shared challenge demanding urgent action.

Overview

REFLECTIONS FROM ADVISORY COUNCIL MEMBERS: 2011 WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT

Reaffirming consensus on international norms and standards—the role of
regional organizations
Louise Arbour, President, International Crisis Group; former UN High Commissioner for
Human Rights; WDR Advisory Council Member
Whether based on universal values, such as the sanctity of
human life, or on international legal rules, there are some
universally accepted norms—reﬂected in the Charter of the
United Nations and other international instruments.
These norms are not self-implementing, and, because
they include the right to cultural diversity, their interpretation must reﬂect local, national, and regional diversity. The
resistance to the exportation of “Western values” might be
no more than the rejection of a foreign way of expressing a
particular norm, rather than a rejection of the norm itself.
Regional institutions can bridge the distance between
universal norms and local customs. Those customs or practices must conform, in substance, to the core international
principles from which the international community derives
its cohesion. Otherwise cultural diversity can simply override, and undermine, the international framework.

In the justice sector, for instance, uniformity of institutional
models and procedures may obscure radical diﬀerences in the
actual delivery of justice. But the adjudication of disputes
based on principles of fairness, impartiality, transparency,
integrity, compassion, and, ultimately, accountability can take
many forms.
In their assistance to development, international actors
must resist the exportation of form over substance and accept
the regionalization of norms that enhance, rather than impede,
their true universal character. In the same spirit, regional actors
must translate, in a culturally relevant way, international norms
and repudiate nonconforming practices.
And all must concede that the standards set by universal
norms are aspirations. Measures of performance should reﬂect
either progress, stagnation or regression, in a given country,
toward a common, universal ideal.

Notes
1. The World Development Report 2011 defines organized violence as the use or threat of physical
force by groups, including state actions against other states or against civilians, civil wars, electoral
violence between opposing sides, communal conflicts based on regional, ethnic, religious, or other
group identities or competing economic interests, gang-based violence and organized crime, and
international, nonstate, armed movements with ideological aims. Although these are also important topics for development, the WDR does not cover domestic or interpersonal violence. At times,
violence or conflict are used as shorthand for organized violence, understood in these terms. Many
countries address certain forms of violence, such as terrorist attacks by nonstate armed movements,
as matters that are subject to their criminal laws.
2. Uppsala/PRIO Armed Conflict Database (Harbom and Wallensteen 2010; Lacina and Gleditsch
2005); Sundberg 2008; Gleditsch and Ward 1999; Human Security Report Project, forthcoming;
Gleditsch and others 2002.
3. Countries affected by fragility, conflict, and violence include those countries with: (1) homicide
rates greater than 10 per 100,000 population per year; (2) major civil conflict (battle deaths greater
than 1,000 per year (as defined in the from 2006 to 2009), (3) UN or regionally mandated peacebuilding or peacekeeping missions; and (4) low-income countries with institutional levels in
2006–09 (World Bank’s CPIA less than 3.2), correlated with high risks of violence and conflict. See
Uppsala/PRIO Armed Conflict Database (Lacina and Gleditsch 2005; Harbom and Wallensteen
2010); UNDPKO 2010b; UNDP 2010c; World Bank 2010e.
4. For discussions of the trends in civil war onset and termination see Hewitt, Wilkenfeld, and Gurr
2010; Sambanis 2004; Elbadawi, Hegre, and Milante 2008; Collier and others 2003.
5. Demombynes 2010; UNODC 2010a.

39

40

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

6. Leslie 2010; Harriott 2004, 2008; International Crisis Group 2008b; Ashforth 2009.
7. Bayer and Rupert 2004. While Baker and others 2002 found that the effect of conflict is equivalent
to a 33 percent tariff barrier. For an updated discussion of the methodology for determining growth
effects of conflict and theory and new analysis based on primary and secondary neighbors, see De
Groot 2010; Murdoch and Sandler 2002.
8. U.S. Committee for Refugees and Immigrants 2009; Internal Displacement Monitoring Centre
2008.
9. Gomez and Christensen 2010; Harild and Christensen 2010.
10. Global Terrorism Database 2010; National Counter Terrorism Center 2010; WDR team
calculations.
11. Gaibulloev and Sandler 2008.
12. Davies, von Kemedi, and Drennan 2005.
13. WDR team calculations based on Europe Brent spot price FOB (dollars per barrel) reported by the
U.S. Energy Information Administration 2011.
14. UNODC 2010b.
15. UNODC 2010b.
16. Hanson 2010; Bowden 2010.
17. World Bank 2010d.
18. WDR staff calculations based on Chen, Ravallion, and Sangraula 2008 poverty data (available on
POVCALNET, http://iresearch.worldbank.org).
19. Narayan and Petesch 2010.
20. UNDP 2006.
21. For an overview of costs of conflict and violence, see Skaperdas and others 2009. Specific estimates
of the economic costs associated with conflict are found in Hoeffler, von Billerbeck, and Ijaz 2010;
Collier and Hoeffler 1998; Cerra and Saxena 2008; Collier, Chauvet, and Hegre 2007; Riascos and
Vargas 2004; UNDP 2006.
22. Martin, Mayer, and Thoenig 2008.
23. UNICEF 2004; UNFPA 2002; Anderlini 2010a.
24. Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action 1995; Women’s Refugee Commission 2009; UNICEF
2004.
25. American Psychological Association 1996; Dahlberg 1998; Verdú and others 2008.
26. WDR team calculations.
27. Theories of the causes of conflict are explored in chapter 2 of the main text. Of the literature discussed there, selected recommended readings include: Gurr 1970; Hirshleifer 1995; Skaperdas 1996;
Grossman 1991; Fearon 1995; Collier and Hoeffler 2004; Satyanath, Miguel, and Sergenti 2004;
Blattman and Miguel 2010; Keefer 2008; Besley and Persson 2009, 2010; Toft 2003; Murshed and
Tadjoeddin 2007; Arnson and Zartman 2005. The linkages among political, security, and economic
dynamics are also recognized in the policy circle. See Zoellick 2010b.
28. For relationship between income inequality and the risk of civil conflict see Fearon 2010a. For relationship between income inequality and criminal violence see Loayza, Fajnzylber, and Lederman
2002a, 2002b; Messner, Raffalovich, and Shrock 2002.
29. Fearon 2010b; Bøås, Tiltnes, and Flatø 2010; Neumayer 2003; Loayza, Fajnzylber, and Lederman
2002a, 2002b; Messner, Raffalovich, and Shrock 2002; WDR team calculations.
30. Stewart 2010.
31. Satyanath, Miguel, and Sergenti 2004.
32. For the relationship between institutional weakness and violence conflict, see Fearon 2010a, 2010b;
Johnston 2010; Walter 2010.
33. In addition, there are structural and incremental factors that increase conflict risk. Among these
are features of the physical terrain that make rebellion easier. These features do not cause war
in the common sense of the word, they simply make it more possible. Mountainous terrain has
been shown to increase risks, by increasing the feasibility of rebellion. Neighborhood matters
too: there are both negative effects from proximity to other wars or countries with high rates of
violent crime and illicit trafficking and positive effects from being in a neighborhood largely at
peace. See Buhaug and Gleditsch 2008; Gleditsch and Ward 2000; Salehyan and Gleditsch 2006;

Overview

34.
35.

36.

37.
38.
39.
40.

41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.

50.
51.

52.

Goldstone 2010. On the effects of neighborhood on civil wars, see Hegre and Sambanis 2006 and
Gleditsch 2007.
McNeish 2010; Ross 2003.
This follows recent literature on statebuilding, notably North, Wallis, and Weingast 2009; Dobbins
and others 2007; Fukuyama 2004; Acemoglu, Johnson, and Robinson 2001, 2005, 2006. This learning is reflected in recent policy documents as well: OECD 2010a, 2010g, 2011.
Institutions are defined in the WDR as the formal and informal “rules of the game,” which include
formal rules, written laws, organizations, informal norms of behavior, and shared beliefs—as well
as the organizational forms that exist to implement and enforce these norms (both state and nonstate organizations). Institutions shape the interests, incentives, and behaviors that can facilitate
violence. Unlike elite pacts, institutions are impersonal—they continue to function irrespective of
the presence of particular leaders, and therefore provide greater guarantees of sustained resilience to
violence. Institutions operate at all levels of society—local, national, regional, and global.
Fearon 2010a, 2010b; Walter 2010.
Arboleda 2010; WDR team consultations with government officials, civil society representatives
and security personnel in Colombia, 2010.
Gambino 2010.
A 2010 meeting of Anglophone and Francophone delegates in Kenya, convened by UNDP, coined
the phrase “collaborative capacities” and further defined the institutions relevant to prevention and
recovery from violence as “dynamic networks of interdependent structures, mechanisms, resources,
values, and skills which, through dialogue and consultation, contribute to conflict prevention and
peace-building in a society.” UN Interagency Framework for Coordination on Preventive Action
2010, 1.
Barron and others 2010.
World Bank 2010m; Buhaug and Urdal 2010.
See Schneider, Buehn, and Montenegro 2010. Food protests data are from news reports; governance
effectiveness data are from Kaufmann, Kraay, and Mastruzzi 2010a.
Menkhaus 2006, 2010.
For the role of institutions in economic growth and development, see Acemoglu, Johnson, and
Robinson 2005. Also see Zoellick 2010b.
North, Wallis, and Weingast 2009.
For the impact of colonialism on the development of modern-day institutions in former colonized
countries, see Acemoglu, Johnson, and Robinson 2001.
Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction 2009.
According to Margaret Levi, “Trust is, in fact, a holding word for a variety of phenomena that enable
individuals to take risks in dealing with others, solve collective action problems, or act in ways that
seem contrary to standard definitions of self-interest.” Furthermore, Levi notes that “At issue is a
cooperative venture, which implies that the truster possesses a reasonable belief that well-placed trust
will yield positive returns and is willing to act upon that belief.” Braithwaite and Levi 1998, 78.
Pritchett and de Weijer 2010.
The interlink between security and development has been debated under the notion of human
security, which encompasses freedom from fear, freedom from want and freedom to live in dignity.
By putting the security and prosperity of human beings at the center, human security addresses
wide range of threats, both from poverty and from violence, and their interactions. While acknowledging the importance of human security and its emphasis on placing people at the center of focus,
this Report uses the term “citizen security” more often to sharpen our focus more on freedom from
physical violence and freedom from fear of violence. The hope is to complement the discussion on
the aspect of freedom from fear in the human security concept. Building on the Commission on
Human Security 2003 report, the importance of human security has been recognized in the UN
General Assembly 2005 resolution adopted at the 2005 World Summit, the UN General Assembly
2009 report, and UN General Assembly 2010 Resolution, as well as in other fora such as Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation, G8, and World Economic Forum. See Commission on Human Security
2003; UN General Assembly 2005b, 2009b, 2010.
“Confidence-building” in mediation terminology means building trust between adversaries; in a
financial context, the term “confidence” denotes trust by market actors that governments are adopt-

41

42

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.

62.

63.

64.

65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.

72.
73.
74.
75.
76.

ing sound policies and will be capable of implementing them. The WDR defines the term as
building trust between groups of citizens who have been divided by violence, between citizens
and the state, and between the state and other key stakeholders (neighbors, international partners, investors) whose political, behavioral, or financial support is needed to deliver a positive
outcome.
On building trust and changing expectations, see Hoff and Stiglitz 2008.
Bedeski 1994; Cumings 2005; Kang 2002; Chang and Lee 2006.
See Stedman 1996; Nilsson and Jarstad 2008. On elite bargains, political settlements and inclusion,
see Di John and Putzel 2009.
Anderlini 2000.
World Bank 2008f, 2009d; Republic of Lebanon Ministry of Environment 1999.
UNDPKO 2010a.
For Japanese land reforms, see Kawagoe 1999; Tsunekawa and Yoshida 2010; For broader statebuilding experience in Japan, see Tsunekawa and Yoshida 2010; For Korean land reforms, see Shin 2006.
Braud and Grevi 2005.
The Governance and Economic Management Assistance Program (GEMAP), introduced in the
run-up to the 2005 elections in Liberia, provides “dual key” authority in the areas of revenue earning and expenditure. Jointly managed by the government and the international community, it was
designed specifically to reassure a skeptical population and donors that years of official looting and
corruption were over and that services would be reliably delivered. Dwan and Bailey 2006; Government of the Republic of Liberia Executive Mansion 2009.
To combat corruption and crime, Guatemala created the International Commission Against Impunity, known by its Spanish acronym, CICIG, through an agreement with the UN in 2007. Its
mandate is to “support, strengthen, and assist institutions of the State of Guatemala responsible for
investigating and prosecuting crimes allegedly committed in connection with the activities of illegal
security forces and clandestine security organizations.” See UN 2006a.
For Afghanistan National Solidarity Program, see Beath and others 2010; Ashe and Parrott 2001;
UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan and UNOHCHR 2010. For Latin American multi-sectoral
violence prevention programs, see Alvarado and Abizanda 2010; Beato 2005; Fabio 2007; International Centre for the Prevention of Crime 2005; Duailibi and others 2007; Peixoto, Andrade, and
Azevedo 2007; Guerrero 2006; Llorente and Rivas 2005; Formisano 2002.
For India, see India Ministry of Rural Development 2005, 2010. For Indonesia, see Barron 2010;
Guggenheim 2011. For Kosovo, see Grygiel 2007; Institute for State Effectiveness 2007. For Rwanda,
see Boudreaux 2010.
For Nicaragua, see Bastick, Grimm, and Kunz 2007. For Nepal, see Ashe and Parrott 2001.
For Liberia, see Blundell 2010. For Mozambique, see Crown Agents 2007.
For the Timor-Leste health programs, see Rohland and Cliffe 2002; Baird 2010.
Messick 2011.
Giovine and others 2010;
Guerrero 2006; Mason 2003; Presidencia República de Colombia 2010.
Ashraf Ghani and Clare Lockhart, in Fixing Failed States, analyze the issue of establishing legitimacy
and closing the sovereignty gap in fragile and conflict-affected states through the lens of “double
compact.” The double compact focuses on the “network of rights and obligations underpinning
the state’s claim to sovereignty . . .” and refers first to the “compact . . . between a state and its citizens . . . embedded in a coherent set of rules, and second, “between a state and the international
community to ensure adherence to international norms and standards of accountability and transparency.” Ghani and Lockhart 2008, 8.
Agoglia, Dziedzic, and Sotirin 2008.
WDR consultation with former key negotiators from the ANC Alliance and the National Party in
South Africa 2010.
Barron and others 2010.
WDR team consultation in Haiti, 2010; UNDPKO 2010a.
For South Africa, see Kambuwa and Wallis 2002; WDR consultation with former key negotiators
from the ANC Alliance and the National Party in South Africa 2010. For Pakistan: World Bank and
ADB 2010.

Overview

77. WDR team consultations with government officials, civil society representatives and security personnel in Colombia 2010.
78. These tools include UNDPA’s mediation unit; AU and other regional mediation capacity; “track II
mediation,” such as the Centre for Humanitarian Dialogue.
79. Ojielo 2007; Odendaal 2010; UNDPA 2010a.
80. Crisis Management Initiative (CMI), a Finnish independent nonprofit organization, works to resolve conflict and to build sustainable peace. In 2005, CMI Chairman, former Finnish President
Ahtisaari facilitated a peace agreement between the Government of the Republic of Indonesia and
the Free Aceh Movement in Aceh, Indonesia. See Crisis Management Initiative 2011.
81. For UN “integrated missions,” see Eide and others 2005. For “whole-of-government” approaches,
see OECD-DAC 2006; DFID 2009, 2010. For “whole-of systems” approaches, see OECD-DAC
2007a. For regional tools, see African Union 2006, 2007b.
82. Stewart and Brown 2007.
83. OECD-DAC 2008.
84. OECD-DAC 2010a.
85. A recent study examined the cost to countries of aid volatility, which induces volatility into government revenues and development programs. The loss in efficiency from volatility of net ODA was
more than twice as high for weak states than strong states, at 2.5 versus 1.2 percent of GDP (see
Kharas 2008).
86. Trafficking is intrinsically regional and global in nature, with knock-on impacts between producing, transit, and consuming countries. Colombia’s actions against drug cartels affect Central America, Mexico, and even West Africa; California’s recent policy debate on legalizing drugs potentially
impacts producing countries. Similar effects happen with other commodities: restraints on logging
in one country can increase demand in other countries that do not have similar policies, bringing
with it increased vulnerability to corruption and violence.
87. The Kimberley Process is jointly undertaken by civil society groups, industry, and governments
to stem the flow of “conflict diamonds” used to fuel rebellions in countries like the Democratic
Republic of Congo. The process has its own diamond certification scheme imposing extensive
requirements on its 49 members (representing 75 countries) to ensure that the rough diamonds
shipped have not funded violence. See Kimberley Process Certification Scheme 2010.
88. OECD-DAC 2010a.
89. WDR team consultation with country team in Timor-Leste in 2010.
90. UNOHCHR 2006.
91. The g7+ is an “independent and autonomous forum of fragile and conflict affected countries and
regions that have united to form one collective voice on the global stage.” The g7+ was established in
2008 and includes: Afghanistan, Burundi, Central African Republic, Chad, Côte d’Ivoire, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Haiti, Liberia, Nepal, the Solomon Islands, Sierra Leone, South Sudan,
and Timor-Leste. See International Dialogue on Peacebuilding and Statebuilding 2010.
92. A practical example of this type of shift is Ethiopia in 2005, when government and donors agreed to
move from regular budget support to a program of transfers to local and municipal governments.
The program included measures to ensure that all regions of the country, irrespective of how they
had voted in elections, received continuing central government support.
93. See Garassi 2010. For Afghanistan, see Atos Consulting 2009. For West Bank and Gaza, see World
Bank 1999a. For Nepal, see UNOHCHR 2010; Government of Nepal, UNDP, and UNDG 2010.
94. See OECD 2010i; Scanteam 2010.
95. Gelb 2010.
96. Messick 2011.
97. See Favaro 2008, 2010.
98. The Greater Mekong Subregion (GMS) countries (Cambodia, China, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Myanmar, Thailand, and Vietnam) have implemented a wide-ranging series of regional
projects covering transport, power, telecommunications, environmental management, human resource development, tourism, trade, private sector investment, and agriculture. The GMS is recognized as having enhanced cross-border trade while reducing poverty levels and creating shared
interests in economic stability and peace.

43

44

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

99. West Africa Coast Initiative (WACI) is a joint program among the UNODC, UN Office for West
Africa, UN Department of Political Affairs, and INTERPOL to combat problems of illicit drug trafficking, organized crime, and drug abuse in West Africa. The initiative comprises a comprehensive
set of activities targeting capacity-building, at both national and regional level, in the areas of law
enforcement, forensics, border management, anti-money-laundering, and the strengthening of
criminal justice institutions, contributing to peacebuilding initiatives and security sector reforms.
100. The “Euroregion” began as an innovative form of transborder cooperation (between two or more
states that share a common bordering region) in the late 1950s. With the purpose of stimulating
cross border economic, sociocultural and leisure cooperation, the Euroregion model grew, and was
boosted through the creation of a common European market and recent democratic transitions.
There are currently more than one hundred Euroregions spread across Europe, and the model has
in recent times been replicated in eastern and central European territories. Cooperation has not
been without problems in areas previously affected by conflict, but there are good examples of
cross-border developmental, social and security programs that involve areas where ethnic minorities reside across several states or in areas that have suffered the trauma of interstate and civil war
in the past. See Greta and Lewandowski 2010; Otocan 2010; Council of Europe 1995; Council of
Europe and Institute of International Sociology of Gorizia 2003; Bilcik and others 2000.
101. Recognizing that insecure borders have been recurrent hosts to conflict, the African Union established the African Union Border Program in 2007 to delimit and demarcate sensitive border areas and promote cross-border cooperation and trade as a conflict prevention tool. The program
consists of four components. First, it pursues both land and maritime border demarcation since
less than a quarter of Africa’s borders have been formally marked and agreed, and disputes are likely
to continue with future discoveries of oil. Second, it promotes cross-border cooperation to deal
with itinerant criminal activities. Third, it supports cross-border peacebuilding programs. Fourth,
it consolidates gains in the economic integration through the regional economic communities. Its
first pilot project was launched in the Sikasso region in Mali and in Bobo Dioualasso in Burkina
Faso—bringing together local, private, and public actors to strengthen cooperation. See African
Union 2007a.
102. ASEAN has played an important role in mediation and conflict resolution in the Southeast Asia region. Examples include its assistance in the Cambodian conflict of 1997–99, the Timor-Leste peacekeeping operation of 1999 onward, the Aceh Reconciliation of 2005, and the Myanmese Cyclone
Nargis catastrophe of May 2008.
103. WDR team calculations based on dataset in Powell and Thyne 2011.
104. Of the different forms that South-South cooperation has taken, technical assistance has been the
most common. Although many technical assistance projects focus on economic and social development, countries in the Global South have also developed specialized capacities in post-conflict
peacebuilding. Examples include South Africa’s support to build structural capacities for public
service through peer learning with Burundi, Rwanda, and Southern Sudan. Cooperation among
45 municipalities in El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras helps to manage regional public goods
such as water in the Trifinio region. The African Development Bank also has a specific facility for
South-South cooperation in fragile states. See also OECD 2010e.
105. In the West African countries that have recently experienced coups d’état, for example, the view
of the African Union was that donor support to social and poverty reduction programs should
continue in these countries, but that larger-scale support should be paced to support the return to a
constitutional path. In practice, donors were divided between those that suspended assistance completely and those that continued assistance with no change. WDR team consultation with officials
from African Union in Addis Ababa, 2010.

WDR Framework and Structure

The Report argues that the risk of violence increases when stresses—both internal and external—combine with weak institutions. Given this challenge, how have countries prevented or
escaped violence? The WDR framework (figure 1) suggests that there is a need to first restore
confidence and then to transform institutions that provide citizen security, justice, and jobs.
The interlink between security and development has been debated under the notion of
human security, which encompasses freedom from fear, freedom from want, and freedom to
live in dignity.1 By putting the security and prosperity of human beings at the center, human
security addresses wide range of threats, both from poverty and from violence, and their
interactions. Building on the report by the Commission on Human Security in 2003, the
importance of human security has been recognized in the United Nations General Asembly
and other international fora. While acknowledging the importance of human security and its
emphasis on placing people at the center of focus, this Report uses the term “citizen security”
more often to sharpen our focus more on freedom from physical violence and freedom from
fear of violence. Our hope is to complement the discussion on the aspect of freedom from
fear in the human security concept.

FIGURE 1

The 2011 WDR Framework—Building resilience to violence
CITIZEN
SECURITY,
JUSTICE,
AND JOBS
EXTERNAL
STRESS

RE

R
TO

ING
FID
CON

E NC E

IT

T

IO

NS

F I DE NC E
CON

UT

GI

ING

IT

ST

ENCE

IO

IN

FID
CON

ST

1

UT

NG

ING

N
GI

IT

R
TO

R
TO

TRANSFORMIN

VIOLENCE and
FRAGILITY

S

TRANSFORMI

RE

S

TRANSFORMIN

RE

S

UT

IO

NS

NS

NS

EXTERNAL SUPPORT
AND INCENTIVES

The importance of human security has been recognized in the UN General Assembly 2005 resolution adopted
at the 2005 World Summit, the UN General Assembly 2009 report, and UN General Assembly 2010 resolution, as well as in other fora such as the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation, G8, and World Economic Forum.
See the Commission on Human Security 2003; UN General Assembly 2005b, 2009b, 2010.

45

46

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

This framework is graphically represented as a spiral, because these processes repeat over
time as countries go through successive transition moments. Even as one set of immediate
priorities is resolved, other risks and transition moments emerge and require a repeated cycle
of action to bolster institutional resilience to stress. There is no “one path”, institutions do not
need to converge on Western models to create sustained security—in fact, local adaptation is
best. Additionally, progress can be made within a generation, but areas that have already seen
repeated cycles of organized violence cannot create sustained security overnight. The arrow
below the spiral shows that external support and incentives can help this nationally led process, and the arrow above it shows that external stresses can derail it.
The WDR framework provides a roadmap for the nine chapters of the WDR, summarized
in table 1.

Chapter structure

TA B L E 1

PART 1: THE CHALLENGE
Chapter 1, Repeated violence threatens development, explores the challenge: repeated
cycles of organized criminal violence and civil conﬂict that threaten development locally
and regionally and are responsible for much of the global deﬁcit in meeting the Millennium
Development Goals.
VIOLENCE and
FRAGILITY
Weak institutions
not transforming

Elite
pact

New
stresses

Chapter 2, Vulnerability to violence, reviews the combination of internal and external stresses
and institutional factors that lead to violence. It argues that capable, accountable, and legitimate institutions are the common “missing factor” explaining why some societies are more
resilient to violence than others. Without attention to institutional transformation, countries
are susceptible to a vicious cycle of repeated violence.

Violence

PART 2: LESSONS FROM NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL RESPONSES
CITIZEN
SECURITY,
JUSTICE,
AND JOBS
EXTERNAL
STRESS

RE

R
TO

ING

FID
CON
E NC E

IO

IT

ST

UT

IN

F I DE NC E
CON

IO

NG

ING

ST

UT

IT

ST

ENCE

N
GI

IT

S

R
TO

IN

FID
CON

TRANSFORMING

ING

TRANSFORMIN

R
TO

S

TRANSFORMI

RE

RE

S

UT

IO

NS

NS

NS

VIOLENCE and
FRAGILITY

EXTERNAL SUPPORT
AND INCENTIVES

CITIZEN
SECURITY,
JUSTICE,
AND JOBS
EXTERNAL
STRESS
RE

S

R
TO

S

EXTERNAL SUPPORT
AND INCENTIVES

ENCE

I

NS

FID
CON

IO

TU

I

ENCE

UT

ST

IT

IN

FID
CON

ST

ON

ST

E NC E

IN

TI

IN

FID
CON

TU

ING

I NG

TRANSFORMING

R
TO

S

TRANSFORMING

RE

ING

R
TO

S

TRANSFORMING

RE

VIOLENCE and
FRAGILITY

Chapter 3, From violence to resilience: Restoring confidence and transforming institutions,
presents the WDR framework, or “virtuous cycle.” It compiles research and case study experience to show how countries have successfully moved away from fragility and violence: by
mobilizing coalitions in support of citizen security, justice, and jobs to restore conﬁdence
in the short term and by transforming national institutions over time. This is a repeated
process that seizes multiple transition moments and builds cumulative progress. It takes a
generation.

TI

ON

S

Chapter 4, Restoring confidence: Moving away from the brink, reviews lessons from national
experience in restoring conﬁdence by mobilizing ‘inclusive-enough’ coalitions of stakeholders and by delivering results. Collaborative coalitions often combine government and
nongovernmental leadership to build national support for change and signal an irreversible break with the past. Restoring conﬁdence in situations of low trust means delivering
some fast results, since government announcements of change will not be credible without
tangible action.

Overview

CITIZEN
SECURITY,
JUSTICE,
AND JOBS
EXTERNAL
STRESS

TRANSFORMING

ST

I

TU

IN

ST

IT

IN

UT

ST

I

TI

ON

Chapter 5, Transforming institutions to deliver security, justice, and jobs, reviews national
experience in prioritizing foundational reforms that provide citizen security, justice, and
jobs—and stem the illegal ﬁnancing of armed groups. In moving forward institutional transformation in complex conﬂict settings, case studies emphasize that perfection should not be
the enemy of progress—pragmatic, “best-ﬁt” approaches should be used to address immediate challenges.

IN

TRANSFORMING

TRANSFORMING

TU

47

IO

TI

ON

S

NS

S

VIOLENCE and
FRAGILITY

EXTERNAL SUPPORT
AND INCENTIVES

CITIZEN
SECURITY,
JUSTICE,
AND JOBS
EXTERNAL
STRESS

Chapter 6, International support to building confidence and transforming institutions, turns
to lessons from international support to national processes. While registering some notable
successes, it argues that international interventions are often fragmented, slow to enter,
quick to exit, reliant on international technical assistance, and delivered through parallel
systems. The chapter considers why international action has been slow to change. International actors have to respond to their own domestic pressures to avoid risk and deliver fast
results. Diﬀerent parts of the international system—middle-income versus OECD actors, for
example—face diﬀerent domestic pressures, undermining cohesive support.

EXTERNAL SUPPORT
AND INCENTIVES

VIOLENCE and
FRAGILITY

CITIZEN
SECURITY,
JUSTICE,
AND JOBS
EXTERNAL
STRESS

Chapter 7, International action to mitigate external stresses, provides lessons from international action to combat external security, economic, and resource stresses that increase
conﬂict risk. The stresses range from traﬃcking in drugs and natural resources to food
insecurity and other economic shocks. The chapter also addresses lessons from regional and
cross-border initiatives to manage these threats.

EXTERNAL SUPPORT
AND INCENTIVES

VIOLENCE and
FRAGILITY

PART 3: PRACTICAL OPTIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
CITIZEN
SECURITY,
JUSTICE,
AND JOBS
EXTERNAL
STRESS
RE

FID
CON
ENCE

IN

ST

E NCE

TU

I

FID
CON

IO

ING

ING

UT

S

R
TO

S

R
TO

IT

ST

E NC E

ST

I

ON

IN

FID
CON

IN
TI

TRANSFORMING

I NG

TRANSFORMING

R
TO

TU

VIOLENCE and
FRAGILITY

S

TRANSFORMING

RE

RE

TI

ON

S

NS

S

EXTERNAL SUPPORT
AND INCENTIVES

CITIZEN
SECURITY,
JUSTICE,
AND JOBS
EXTERNAL
STRESS

VIOLENCE and
FRAGILITY

Chapter 8, Practical country directions and options, provides practical options for national
and international reformers to take advantage of multiple transition opportunities, restore
conﬁdence, and transform institutions in countries facing a range of institutional challenges,
stresses, and forms of violence.

EXTERNAL SUPPORT
AND INCENTIVES

Chapter 9, New directions for international support, identiﬁes four tracks for international
action. First, to invest in prevention through citizen security, justice and jobs. Second, internal
agency reforms to provide faster assistance for conﬁdence-building and longer term institutional engagement. Third, acting at the regional level on external stresses. Fourth, marshalling the knowledge and resources of low-, middle-, and high-income countries.

48

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

The dynamics of change are similar in countries facing violence of purely criminal origins and
those facing political and civil conflict; in countries with different combinations of stresses
and institutional characteristics; and in those at different incomes, including middle and high
income countries facing subnational violence. This said, the Report’s framework must be
applied contextually, taking into account the specific features of the case in question. This differentiation is explored throughout the Report. Lessons from country case studies in chapters
4 to 8 include, for example, brief “differentiation tables” that summarize the relevant types of
violence, transition opportunities, key stakeholders, key stresses, and institutional challenges
faced (table 2). These tables provide a brief assessment of the critical dynamics that, based on
experience, must be taken into account when designing an appropriate strategy to prevent,
mitigate, or recover from violence.
TA B L E 2

Sample differentiation table

Types of violence: Legacy of civil conﬂict, political, criminal and gang related violence, traﬃcking
Transition opportunities: Moderate space for
change, presidential elections, strong international
support

Key stakeholders: Government, investors, opposition parties, ex-combatants, victims, peacekeepers

Key stresses: Legacy of violence and trauma,
grievances and mistrust, deep-rooted corruption,
unemployment

Institutional challenges: Accountability and
capacity constraints in economic, security, political
spheres

PART I

The Challenge

T

his chapter presents the development challenge of political
and criminal violence. The eﬀects can be devastating. Violence
kills and displaces people, destroys human and physical capital, stunts growth, and all too often spills across borders. More than
1.5 billion people live in countries aﬀected by fragility, violence, or
conﬂict. A child living in a conﬂict-aﬀected or fragile developing
country is twice as likely to be undernourished as a child living in
another developing country and nearly three times as likely to be out
of school. No low-income fragile or conﬂict-aﬀected state has yet
achieved a single Millennium Development Goal (MDG). There is
hope, however. Countries that have managed to reduce violence
have also produced some of the fastest development gains.

CHAPTER

VIOLENCE and
FRAGILITY

1

Repeated Violence Threatens
Development

VIOLENCE and
FRAGILITY

Interstate and civil wars have
declined since peaking in the
early 1990s

W

ars between states are now
relatively rare (compared with
the large wars of the 20th century). Major civil wars, after
peaking in the early 1990s, have since declined
(see box 1.1). The annual number of battle
deaths from civil war fell from more than
160,000 a year in the 1980s to less than 50,000
a year in the 2000s.1 Homicide rates in most
regions have also been declining, except in
Latin America and the Caribbean and possibly
Sub-Saharan Africa.2
The last two decades have also seen progress in developing global and regional standards to check the violent or coercive exercise
of power. In Africa, the Lomé Declaration in
2000, which established standards and a regional response mechanism to unconstitutional changes in government, has been associated with a reduction in coups d’état from
15 in the 1990s to 5 from 2000 to mid-2010.3
And, despite an increase in coups in the last
five years, continental action to restore constitutionality has been consistently strong. In
1991, the Organization of American States
adopted provisions supporting democratic
and constitutional changes of government
and laying out action in the event of a coup; a

decision reinforced in the Democratic Charter of 2001.4 The number of coups in Latin
America fell from 30 between 1970 and 1989
to 3 since 1990.5 New norms and associated
sanctions to protect human rights have also
made it possible to prosecute leaders for
using extreme violence and coercion against
their citizens: since 1990, 67 former heads of
state have been prosecuted for serious human
rights violations or economic crimes during
their tenures.6
Countries emerging from severe violence
have made striking development gains, often
with strong assistance from the international
community. Conflict-affected states often begin their recovery from lower development
levels than is “natural,” given their human
and physical capital. This makes rapid strides
in development possible, as shown in the following examples:7
• Ethiopia more than quadrupled access
to improved water, from 13 percent of
the population in 1990 to 66 percent in
2009–10.
• Mozambique more than tripled its primary school completion rate in just eight
years, from 14 percent in 1999 to 46 percent in 2007.
• Rwanda cut the prevalence of undernourishment from 53 percent of the population in 1997 to 34 percent in 2007.

52

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

BOX 1.1

Interstate and civil war—1900 to the present

Interstate war has declined dramatically since the two world wars of the ﬁrst half of the 20th century. Major civil conﬂicts (those with more
than 1,000 battle deaths a year) increased during the postcolonial and Cold War era, peaking in the late 1980s and early 1990s (ﬁgure a).
Since 1991–92, when there were 21 active major civil wars, the number has steadily fallen to less than 10 each year since 2002.8
F I G U R E A Civil wars peaked in the early 1990s and then declined

Major civil wars increased from 1960 through the late 1980s and have decreased since the early-1990s.

Cumulative (stacked) number of
countries at war

30
25
20
15
10
5
0
1900 1906 1912 1918 1924 1930 1936 1942 1948 1954 1960 1966 1972 1978 1984 1990 1996 2002 2008
Countries involved in major civil war
Countries involved in both major interstate and major civil war
Countries involved in major interstate war

Sources: Uppsala/PRIO Armed Conﬂict dataset (Harbom and Wallensteen 2010; Lacina and Gleditsch 2005).

The declines are all the more remarkable given the rising number of sovereign states—from around 50 in 1900 to more than 170 in 2008.
Despite a tripling in the number of states and a doubling of population in the last 60 years, the percentage of countries involved in major conﬂicts (interstate or civil) has not increased, and there has been a decline since 1992.
In addition, civil wars have become less violent. Battle deaths have dropped from an average of 164,000 a year in the 1980s and 92,000 a
year in the 1990s to 42,000 a year in the 2000s (ﬁgure b). This is consistent with recent evidence of declines in the number of wars, human rights
abuses, and fatalities in war—and in the indirect deaths associated with wars.9
F I G U R E B Deaths from civil wars are also on the decline

300,000

60

250,000

50

200,000

40

150,000

30

100,000

20

50,000

10

0
1960

Number of countries in civil war

Battle deaths in civil wars

As the number of civil wars declined, the total annual deaths from these conﬂicts (battle
deaths) fell from more than 200,000 in 1988 to less than 50,000 in 2008.

0
1968

1976

1984

1992

2000

2008

Total battle deaths per annum in all civil wars (minor and major)
Total number of countries in civil war (minor and major)

Sources: Uppsala/PRIO Armed Conﬂict dataset (Harbom and Wallenstein 2010; Lacina and Gleditsch 2005); Gleditsch and others 2002; Sundberg 2008;
Gleditsch and Ward 1999; Human Security Report Project, forthcoming.
Note: Civil wars are classiﬁed by scale and type in the Uppsala/PRIO Armed Conﬂict database (Harbom and Wallensteen 2010; Lacina and Gleditsch
2005). The minimum threshold for monitoring is a minor civil war with 25 or more battle deaths a year. Low, high, and best estimates of annual battle
deaths per conﬂict are in Lacina and Gleditsch (2005, updated in 2009). Throughout this Report, best estimates are used, except when they are not
available, in which case averages of the low and high estimates are used.

53

Repeated violence threatens development

F I G U R E 1.1

Gangs and trafficking are global concerns
Following September 11, 2001, there was an exponential rise in media coverage of terrorism. Meanwhile, media coverage of
gangs and traﬃcking has also been increasing. Recently, the coverage of gangs and traﬃcking approached that of civil war.

Articles in global media on selected topics

100,000

10,000

1,000

100
Jan.
2000

Jan.
2001

Jan.
2002

Terrorism
Civil war

Jan.
2003

Jan.
2004

Jan.
2005

Jan.
2006

Jan.
2007

Jan.
2008

Jan.
2009

Gangs
Traﬃcking

Source: Factiva.
Note: Data in the ﬁgure were compiled by using all available news sources from the Factiva search engine from January 2000 to December
2009 and using the following four search terms: “terrorism,”“traﬃcking,”“gangs,” and “civil war” in multiple languages. Only articles where
the search terms appeared in the headline and lead paragraph were counted.

• Bosnia and Herzegovina, between 1995
and 2007, increased measles immunizations from 53 to 96 percent for children
aged 12–23 months, and reduced infant
mortality from 16 to 12.6 per 1,000 live
births. Telephone lines per 100 people increased fourfold, from 7 to 28.
But global apprehension remains. Media
references to terrorism peaked after 9/11 and
then gradually declined, but references to
gangs and trafficking steadily increased over
the last decade (figure 1.1). The Middle East
and North Africa has experienced a series of
dramatic social protests and political turbulence, escalating into outright conflict in
some countries. Violence in Afghanistan and
Pakistan is consuming the attention of global
policy makers. As this report goes to print, a
new nation is emerging in Southern Sudan,
with all the opportunities and risks involved
in that endeavor. Drug-based violence appears to be on the increase in Central America, threatening both local and national governance. Global terrorism remains a serious

threat. And new and unpredictable risks are
likely to emerge from a combination of demographic pressure, climate change, and resource scarcity.

Modern violence comes in various
forms and repeated cycles
The tendency to see violence as interstate
warfare and major civil war obscures the
variety and prevalence of organized violence—and underestimates its impact on
people’s lives. The organized violence that
disrupts governance and compromises development also includes local violence involving militias or between ethnic groups,
gang violence, local resource-related violence
and violence linked to trafficking (particularly drug trafficking), and violence associated with global ideological struggles (table
1.1). This violence is often recurrent, with
many countries now experiencing repeated
cycles of civil conflict and criminal violence.

54

TA B L E 1 . 1

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

Country case examples of multiple forms of violence
“Conventional” political
conﬂict (contests for state
power or for autonomy or
independence)

Widespread gangrelated violence

Organized crime
or traﬃcking with
accompanying violence

Local conﬂicts
with transnational
ideological
connections

Warlordism
(2002–present)

Opium production and
traﬃcking

Al-Qaeda links with
Taliban

Country

Local intergroup conﬂict

Afghanistan

Multiple incidents
involving militias including
Amanullah Khan and Abdul
Rashid Dostum (2002–08)

Taliban, other actors
(2002–present)

Pakistan

Intratribal conﬂict
(2004–09)

Pakistani Taliban
(2007–present);
Balochistan separatists
(2004–present)

Drug production and
traﬃcking

Cross-border
ideological
militant links

Mali

Rebel inﬁghting (1994);
ethnic violence in Gao,
Kayes, and Kindal regions
(1998–99)

Rebel groups in Northern
Mali (1990–present)

Transnational traﬃcking
of illicit goods, principally
drugs and weapons

Al-Qaeda in the
Islamic Maghreb

Papua New
Guinea

Ethnic and tribal
conﬂicts in the Highlands
(2001–present)

Secessionist movement
(Bougainville Revolutionary
Army, 1989–2001)

Urban crime and
gang violence

Human traﬃcking; source
and transit point for illicit
timber trade

Rebel groups (1979–92)

La Mara Salva
Trucha, La 18,
La Mao Mao, and
La Máquina

Drug traﬃcking

Election violence

Widespread gang
activity (1980s–
present)

Drug traﬃcking hub,
particularly for heroin

El Salvador

Kenya

Clan and ethnic group
violence (2005–08)

Tajikistan

Democratic and Islamist
opposition groups (1992–96);
Movement for Peace
in Tajikistan (1998)

Major transit country for
Afghan narcotics; human
traﬃcking

Islamic Movement of
Uzbekistan

Kidnap for ransom; human
traﬃcking; methamphetamine source for East and
Southeast Asia

Al-Qaeda and
Jemaah Islamiyah
links with Abu Sayyaf
(Mindanao)

Philippines

Local clan conﬂicts

Muslim separatist groups
in Mindanao (Moro Islamic
Liberation Front and Moro
National Liberation Front)

Northern
Ireland
(United
Kingdom)

Local tensions over
religion and economic
disparities underlie much of
the escalated violence

Irish Republican Army (IRA)
(1971–98)

Splinter groups of
IRA and Protestant
paramilitaries

Drug traﬃcking
(amphetamines)

Sources: Lockhart and Glencorse 2010; Straus 2010; Demombynes 2010; Barron and others 2010; Dinnen, Porter, and Sage 2010; Europa Publications 2001; Economist
Intelligence Unit 2010; Oxford Reference Online 2001; Uppsala University 2009b, 2009a; UNODC 2010b.

Violence is often interlinked
As table 1.1 suggests, many types of violence
have direct links to each other, as illustrated
in the following examples:
• Countries rich in oil and other minerals
that can be illegally trafficked are much
more likely to have a civil war,10 and a longer one, with rebels financing their activity through the sale of lootable resources,
such as diamonds in Sierra Leone and
coltan (the mineral columbite-tantalite)
in the Democratic Republic of Congo.11

Illegal trafficking has been a source of finance for armed groups in Afghanistan,
Mindanao, and Northern Ireland.12
• In countries as diverse as Côte d’Ivoire,
Jamaica, Kenya, and the Solomon Islands,
militant groups or criminal gangs have
been mobilized during past political contests and elections.13
• In Melanesia, the ritualized community
conflicts of previous generations have escalated into urban gang violence associated with particular ethnic groups.14

55

Repeated violence threatens development

• In Central America, combatants on both
sides of political conflicts between the
state and rebel movements have migrated
into organized crime.15
In other cases, violence may be linked
through underlying institutional weaknesses.
Yemen now faces four separate conflicts: the
Houthi rebellion in the North, the presence
of Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, grievances in the south, and the popular protests
for change that have swept through the Arab
world. There is little direct evidence of links
between these conflicts, other than through
the weakness of national institutions to address them.16 Similarly, in Nepal, following
a decade-long insurrection (1996–2006) a
Comprehensive Peace Agreement was signed
between the Maoist rebels and the government. But violence between political rivals,
quasi-political extortion, and criminal gang
activity have increased markedly since the
civil war.17
The modern landscape of violence also
includes terrorist attacks by movements that
claim ideological motives and recruit internationally. Terrorism—commonly, though
not universally, defined as the use of force by
nonstate actors against civilians18—stretches
back at least to the Middle Ages. In modern
times, the tactics and organizations have mutated. The dominant forms and groups from
the 1960s to the early 1990s were leftist or
F I G U R E 1.2

nationalist groups based in OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) countries (the Baader-Meinhof
Group, Red Brigades, the IRA, the Euskadi
Ta Askatasuna (ETA), and groups associated
with the Israeli-Palestinian struggle). In contrast, the 1990s saw a surge in right-wing nationalism and anti-government libertarian
terrorism in the West,19 until the center of
gravity shifted with 9/11 and the later attacks
in, among other places, Jakarta, London, Madrid, and Mumbai. This Report does not enter the debate on what terrorism is or is not.
Instead, the concern with terrorism is about
the elements of movements that pose particular threats to governance and development,
along with their ability to recruit and to
operate across national boundaries and the
diverse motivations of those who join (chapter 2). While the preoccupation with terrorism is high in Western countries, some
perspective on the global phenomenon is
necessary—fatalities have been overwhelmingly concentrated on nonwestern targets in
every year except 2001 (figure 1.2).

Organized crime and trafficking
are an important part of current
violent threats
Trafficking of drugs, people, and commodities has been an international concern for

Victims of terrorism

Over the last decade, 86 percent of nearly 50,000 fatalities from terrorism occurred in attacks aimed at non-Western targets. The attacks of
September 11, 2001, are the exception rather than the rule, and the phenomenon of terrorism has long aﬀected all regions of the world.
1999

2001

2003

2005

2007

2009

Fatalities in attacks aimed at Western targets
Fatalities in attacks aimed at non-Western targets
Fatalities in attacks aimed at unknown targets

Sources: National Counter Terrorism Center 2010; Global Terrorism Database 2010; WDR team calculations. The Global Terrorism Database (GTD) contains data from
1998 to 2008 and the National Counter Terrorism Center (NCTC) from 2004 to 2009. Pie charts from 1999 to 2003 are thus based on GTD data; from 2005 to 2007 on
average shares from the two datasets; and for 2009 on NCTC data.
Note: From 1998 to 2009, 41,753 fatalities occurred in attacks on nonwestern targets, of a global total of 48,828. These statistics are based on the nationality of the
principal target of each attack; “Western” targets are deﬁned as all targets from OECD countries, targets in all other countries are deﬁned as “non-Western.” So attacks
on non-Western targets may occasionally include Western fatalities, and vice versa.

56

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

B OX 1.2

Instability, political violence, and drug trafficking in West Africa

West Africa is one of the poorest and least stable regions in the world. All but 3 of its 16 countries are on the United Nations (UN) list of “least
developed countries.” Since independence, countries in the region have experienced at least 58 coups and attempted coups and many civil
wars—and rebel groups remain active.
Where conﬂict has ended, recovery and the creation of resilient institutions take time; and the weakness of governance in post-conﬂict
environments attracts transnational criminal networks. International drug traﬃckers began in 2004 to use the region as a base for shipping cocaine from South America to Europe.
In 2008 an estimated 25 tons of cocaine passed through West Africa, with a transit value of about US$1 billion by the time it reached West
Africa, and an ultimate value of some US$6.8 billion at its destinations in Western Europe.20 Drug traﬃckers use some of the proﬁts to bribe
government oﬃcials. As the UNODC (UN Oﬃce on Drugs and Crime) notes in its Transnational Organized Crime Threat Assessment for West
Africa, “Law enforcement oﬃcials can be oﬀered more than they could earn in a lifetime simply to look the other way.” 21

Traﬃcking and violence during conﬂicts in West Africa, 1990–2009
West Africa has experienced political, communal, and criminal violence since 1990. During conﬂicts, diamonds, timber, and
oil were traﬃcked. Recently the region has become a transit route for cocaine traﬃcked from South America to Europe.
IBRD 38458
April 2011

Major cocaine seizures
(kilograms), 2005–2009:
3000 kg

Former
Spanish
Sahara

1500 kg
500 kg
630

Countries that reported
seizures on land
120

MAURITANIA
830

MALI

In Sierra Leone in 1999, diamonds valued at
US$70 million were trafficked out of the country.

CAPE
VERDE

3,100

500

1,250
1,200

THE
GAMBIA

635

GUINEABISSAU
1,500

SENEGAL

674

GUINEA
170

2,210

BURKINA
FASO

116

SIERRA
LEONE

703

Political violence, 1990–2009:

BENIN
TOGO
GHANA
CÔTE D’IVOIRE

NIGERIA

274

388
LIBERIA

3,700

160

Rebel activity
Communal violence

NIGER

In Nigeria in 2009, US$1 billion
of oil was bunkered.

588

360

CAMEROON

100 kg

ALGERIA

1,900

2,500

840

EQ. GUINEA

Riots and protests
Political gangs

In Liberia in 2001, timber valued between
US$168–$180 million was illicitly traded.

SÃO TOME AND PRÍNCIPE

Sources: Conﬂict data are from Raleigh and others 2010 ACLED database (Armed Conﬂict Location and Event Database), seizure and traﬃcking
data are from UNODC 2010a; WDR team calculations.
Note: The map above depicts West African political violence 1990–2009 overlaid traﬃcking and seizure data. Violence data for Sierra Leone and
Liberia are for 1990–2010, while violence data for all other states are for 1997–2009.

decades. Criminal networks take advantage
of communications, transport, and financial services—and overwhelm enforcement
mechanisms that are either rooted in national
jurisdictions or hampered by low cooperation and weak capacity. Drugs connect some
of the wealthiest and poorest areas of the
world in mutual violence, showing that

many solutions to violence require a global
perspective. The annual value of the global
trade in cocaine and heroin today is estimated at US$153 billion (heroin US$65 billion and cocaine US$88 billion). Europe and
North America consume 53 percent of the
heroin and 67 percent of the cocaine; however, the high retail prices in these markets

Repeated violence threatens development

mean that economic share of consumption
in Europe and North America is even higher:
cocaine consumption in the two regions accounted for an estimated US$72 billion of
the US$88 billion in global trade.22 Drugs
provide the money that enables organized
criminals to corrupt and manipulate even
the most powerful societies—to the ultimate
detriment of the urban poor, who provide
most of the criminals’ foot-soldiers and who
find themselves trapped in environments
traumatized by criminal violence.23
Drug trafficking organizations thus have
resources that can dwarf those of the governments attempting to combat them.24 The value-added of cocaine traveling the length of
Central America is equivalent to 5 percent of
the region’s GDP—and more than 100 times
the US$65 million the United States allocates
under the Mérida Initiative to assist interdiction efforts by Mexico and Central American
nations.25 Conservative estimates suggest there
are 70,000 gang members in Central America,
outnumbering military personnel there.26 In
many countries, drug cartels exert a heavy influence over provincial governance and, occasionally, national governance (box 1.2).
Organized crime networks engage in a
wide variety of illicit activities, including
trafficking drugs, people, and small arms and
light weapons; financial crimes; and money
laundering. These illicit activities require the
absence of rule of law and, therefore, often
thrive in countries affected by other forms
of violence. According to various studies,
organized crime generates annual revenues
ranging from US$120 billion to as high as
US$330 billion,27 with drug trafficking the
most profitable. Other estimates suggest that
the world’s shadow economy, including organized crime, could be as high as 10 percent
of GDP globally.28
Countries affected by political violence
that have weak institutions are also susceptible to trafficking. Since 2003, drug trafficking
organizations have taken advantage of institutional weaknesses in West Africa to establish their operations there, resulting in a fourfold increase in cocaine seizures heading to

Europe since 2003. Box 1.2 shows how trafficking and violence coexist in the region.29
Armed groups in Central Africa secure their
funding from mining and smuggling precious minerals such as gold. In the Democratic Republic of Congo, an estimated 40
tons of gold, worth US$1.24 billion, are
smuggled out every year.30 The link between
criminal trafficking and violence is not unique
to Africa. For example, Myanmar is still a major source of opium, accounting for 10 percent of global production, and continues to
be a major trade hub to East and Southeast
Asia. Illegal logging remains a major challenge in Myanmar; although trade in timber
from Myanmar fell by 70 percent from 2005
to 2008, illegal trade into countries in the
region continues. Myanmar also serves as a
major conduit of wildlife trade coming from
Africa and South Asia.31

Today’s violence occurs in
repeated cycles
There has been a tendency in the development community to assume that the progression from violence to sustained security is
fairly linear—and that repeated violence is
the exception. But recurring civil wars have
become a dominant form of armed conflict
in the world today. Every civil war that began
since 2003 was a resumption of a previous
civil war.32 Of all conflicts initiated in the
1960s, 57 percent were the first conflict in
their country (many countries having been
newly created after the colonial era).33 First
conflicts fell significantly in each subsequent
decade, to the point where 90 percent of conflicts initiated in the 21st century were in
countries that had already had a civil war
(table 1.2). Fighting has also continued after
several recent political settlements, as in Afghanistan and the Democratic Republic of
Congo. As the previous section showed, successful peace agreements can be followed by
high levels of criminal violence.
Several Central American countries that
ended civil wars are now experiencing more
violent deaths from criminal activity than

57

58

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

TA B L E 1.2

Countries often relapse into conflict
Repeated violence is common in the world today, suggesting that few countries are ever truly “post-conﬂict.” The rate of onset in
countries with a previous conﬂict has been increasing since the 1960s, and every civil war that began since 2003 was in a country that
had had a previous civil war.
Onsets in countries with
no previous conﬂict (%)

Onsets in countries with a
previous conﬂict (%)

Number of onsets

1960s

57

43

35

1970s

43

57

44

1980s

38

62

39

1990s

33

67

81

2000s

10

90

39

Decade

Sources: Walter 2010; WDR team calculations.
Note: Previous conﬂict includes any major conﬂict since 1945.

during their civil wars. Since 1999, homicide rates have increased in El Salvador
(+101 percent), Guatemala (+91 percent),
and Honduras (+63 percent) as criminal networks linked to drug trafficking have become
more active (figure 1.3). All these countries
suffered civil wars or political instability in
the 1980s and 1990s. While El Salvador and
Guatemala signed peace accords in the 1990s
that avoided a return to civil war, both now

The developmental consequences
of violence are severe
The costs of violence for citizens, communities, countries, and the world are enormous,
both in terms of human suffering and social

Criminal violence in Central America is on the rise despite political peace
Homicides have increased in every country in Central America since 1999: in El Salvador from 30 to 61 homicides per 100,000
people and in Guatemala from 24 to 46 per 100,000.
Absolute change in homicide rate relative to 1999

F I G U R E 1.3

face levels of violent organized crime equally
disruptive to development.

40

30

20

10

0

–10
1999

2000
El Salvador
Panama

2001

2002
Honduras
Nicaragua

2003

2004
Guatemala
Costa Rica

2005

2006

2007

2008

Belize

Sources: WDR team calculations based on UNODC 2007; UNODC and the World Bank 2007; and national sources.
Note: Base year for homicide rate is 1999 = 0.

2009

59

Repeated violence threatens development

and economic consequences. The costs are
both direct (loss of life, disability, and destruction) and indirect (prevention, instability, and
displacement). While some of these losses can
be directly measured and quantified in economic terms, others are not easily measured
(trauma, loss of social capital and trust, prevention cost, and forgone investment and
trade).34

Human costs of violence
Most fundamentally, violence compromises
human security and dignity—and for this
reason, freedom from violence and fear is a
basic human right. The 2008 Geneva Declaration on Armed Violence and Development,
endorsed by more than 90 states, argues that
“living free from the threat of armed violence
is a basic human need.”35 To better understand the impact of violence on lives and
livelihoods, the WDR team asked the Norwegian research institute Fafo to conduct surveys in seven countries and territories, inF I G U R E 1.4

volving a mix of nationally representative
samples as well as subregions affected by violence.36 In the past three years, up to 26 percent of respondents report that their immediate family’s home had been looted, up to 32
percent had been displaced, and up to 19 percent had a family member who had been tortured (figure 1.4).
The most vulnerable groups in society are
frequently most affected by violence. Tied to
their homes or places of work, the vulnerable
have little of the protection that money or
well-placed contacts afford. Poor child nutrition for those displaced or unable to earn incomes due to violence has lasting effects,
impairing physical and cognitive functioning. Violence destroys school infrastructure,
displaces teachers, and interrupts schooling,
often for an entire generation of poor children. War, looting, and crime destroy the
household assets of the poor, and fear of violent attacks prevents them from tilling their
fields or traveling to schools, clinics, workplaces, and markets. For poor people in poor

Violence creates suffering for families in myriad ways: Responses to survey on experiences of violence
on immediate family member in last three years
People in conﬂict-aﬀected countries experience displacement, loss of contact, imprisonment, and humiliation, which aﬀec t entire
families, disrupting life and destroying social capital. In Gaza, a third of respondents reported that someone in their immediate family
had been displaced in the last three years. In the West Bank, a third had experienced someone being imprisoned. In Sierra Leone,
35 percent of the respondents reported that they lost contact with a member of their immediate family in the last three years.

40
35

% “yes” responses

30
25
20
15
10
5
0
Displacement
Congo, Dem. Rep.

Imprisonment
Côte d’Ivoire

Torture
Mali

Sierra Leone

Humiliation
Gaza

Loss of contact
West Bank

Homes looted

Death

Colombia

Source: Bøås, Tiltnes, and Flatø 2010.
Note: Surveys were undertaken in early 2010 for seven countries, territories, or subnational areas. The samples were selected from multiple regions to cover
countries varying geographically, at diﬀerent stages of development and facing or recovering from diﬀering types of violence. Country representative samples were
used for Côte d’Ivoire, Sierra Leone, and Colombia. The surveys were undertaken in selected regions of Democratic Republic of Congo and Mali. Independent
representative samples were used in Gaza and the West Bank.

60

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

detainee population and 90 percent of the
missing,40 women and children comprise
close to 80 percent of refugees and those internally displaced.41 And violence begets violence: children who witness abuses have a
higher tendency to perpetrate violence later
in life.42
Sexual and gender-based violence remains
a major problem, particularly in fragile and
conflict-affected countries.43 Most contemporary armed conflicts are “low-intensity”
civil wars fought by small, poorly trained,
and lightly armed forces that avoid major
military engagements—but that frequently
target civilians with great brutality.44 A global
review of 50 countries finds significant increases in gender-based violence following a
major war.45 In some cases, it occurs due to a
breakdown of social and moral order and to
increased impunity, but the threat and perpetration of sexual and physical violence
against women and children can also be a
systematic weapon of war—to dominate, to
terrorize, to humiliate. Mass rapes have occurred in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Liberia,
Peru, and Uganda.46 In Rwanda’s 1994 genocide alone, an estimated 250,000 rapes took
place.47 Although those suffering rape and
sexual abuse are overwhelmingly young

countries, extended families are often their
only insurance, and deaths in the family often leave them alone and unprotected.37

Development impacts of violence
Poverty reduction in countries affected by
major violence is on average nearly a percentage point slower per year than in countries not affected by violence.38 After a few
years of major violence, the contrast can be
quite stark: countries affected by violence
throughout the 1980s lagged in poverty reduction by 8 percentage points, and those
that had experienced major violence throughout the 1980s and 1990s lagged by 16 percentage points. On average, a country experiencing major violence over the entire period
(1981–2005) had a poverty rate 21 percentage points higher than a country that saw no
violence (figure 1.5). The disruptive effect of
violence on development and the widening
gap between countries affected by violence
and those not affected are deeply troubling.
The direct impact of violence falls primarily on young males, the majority of fighting
forces, but women and children often suffer
disproportionately from indirect effects (see
table 1.3).39 Men make up 96 percent of the

Widening gap in poverty between countries affected by violence and those not experiencing violence
Poverty is on the decline for much of the world, but countries aﬀected by violence are lagging behind. For every three years that a
country is aﬀected by major violence (battle deaths or excess deaths from homicides equivalent to a major war), poverty reduction
lags behind by 2.7 percentage points. For some countries aﬀected by violence, poverty has actually increased.
Poverty headcount
(% of population living below US$1.25 a day)

F I G U R E 1.5

65
60
55
50
45
40
35
1981

1984

1987

1990

1993

1996

1999

2002

2005

Countries aﬀected by major violence
Countries aﬀected by minor violence
Countries with negligible or no violence

Source: WDR team calculations based on Chen, Ravallion, and Sangraula 2008 poverty data (available at POVCALNET, HTTP://iresearch.
worldbank.org.)

Repeated violence threatens development

TA B L E 1.3

The gender-disaggregated impacts of violent conflict
Direct impacts

Indirect impacts

Higher rates of morbidity and mortality from battle deaths
Higher likelihood to be detained or missing
Men

Sexual and gender-based violence: sex-selective massacres; forcibly
conscripted or recruited; subjected to torture, rape, and mutilation;
forced to commit sexual violence upon others

Risk of ex-combatants’ involvement in criminal or illegal activities
and diﬃculties in ﬁnding livelihoods
Increased prevalence of other forms of violence—particularly
domestic violence

Higher rates of disability from injury
Higher likelihood to be internally displaced persons and refugees

Reproductive health problems

Sexual and gender-based violence: being subjected to rape,
traﬃcking, and prostitution; forced pregnancies and marriages

Women’s reproductive and care-giving roles under stress

Women

Changed labor market participation from death of family members
and “added worker eﬀect”
Higher incidence of domestic violence
Possibility for greater political participation
Women’s increased economic participation due to changing
gender roles during conﬂict

Depression, trauma, and emotional distress

Asset and income loss
Tendency toward increased migration
Disrupted patterns of marriage and fertility
Loss of family and social networks, including insurance
mechanisms

Common

Interrupted education
Eroded well-being, particularly poor health and disability from
poverty and malnutrition
Sources: Anderlini 2010a; multiple sources described in endnote.48

women,49 men can also be subject to sexual
victimization and violence, or be forced to
perpetrate sexual violence against others,
even their family members.50
A major human consequence of violence
is the displacement of people from their
homes. At the end of 2009 some 42 million
people around the world had been forced to
leave or flee their homes due to conflict,
violence, and human rights violations—15
million refugees outside their country of
nationality and habitual residence, and 27
million internally displaced persons (IDPs).
And developing countries are also hosts to
the vast majority of refugees, putting additional strains on their local and national
capacities. In 2009 developing countries
hosted 10.2 million refugees, or nearly 70
percent of the global total. The rising numbers of IDP populations, which include substantial new displacements in 2009 and 2010
in countries such as Pakistan, the Demo-

cratic Republic of Congo, and Sudan, undermine recovery from violence and interrupt human development.51
The suffering of displaced populations is
often protracted. Camps in Chad, Jordan,
Lebanon, and Sudan have become homes for
many IDPs, not just for months or years, but
often for decades. Most forced displacements
in the 2000s were caused by internal armed
conflicts rather than international conflicts.
Population movements into urban centers
have increased the potential for crime, social
tension, communal violence, and political instability.52 Meanwhile, the large-scale repatriation movements of the past have diminished,
with return figures dropping since 2004.53
For all these reasons, areas affected by
violence pose a major challenge to meeting
MDGs. The arrested social development in
countries affected by violence is evident in
the poor showing in human development
indicators (figure 1.6). Development in these

61

62

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

F I G U R E 1.6

Violence is the main constraint to meeting the MDGs
a.

Incidence ratio of undernourishment, poverty and other ills for fragile, recovering, and non-fragile developing countries
(non-FCS)

Incidence ratio as compared to countries
that are not aﬀected by violence

A child in a fragile or conﬂict-aﬀected state is twice as likely to be undernourished as a child in another developing country—and
nearly three times as likely to be out of primary school.
3.5
3.0
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
Undernourished Impoverished

Primary—
not enrolled

Fragile and conﬂict-aﬀected states (FCS)

Secondary—
not enrolled

Infant deaths

Recovering from fragility

Under 5
deaths

Births
unattended

HIV/AIDS

Access to
improved
water

Access to
improved
sanitation

Non-FCS (including BRIC)

Sources: World Bank 2010n; WDR team calculations based on Gates and others 2010.
Note: Figure 1.6a shows the incidence of each of the ills associated with unmet MDGs for fragile, conﬂict-aﬀected, and recovering countries in relation to the
incidence for all other developing countries. The ratio is weighted by the aﬀected population, so each bar can be read as the odds-ratio of a person being aﬀected
relative to a person in a non-fragile or conﬂict-aﬀected state: for example, children of primary school age are three times as likely to be out of school in fragile and
conﬂict-aﬀected states as those in other developing countries.

b.

Countries aﬀected by violence account for:

Fragile and conﬂict-aﬀected states and those recovering from conﬂict and fragility, account for 47 percent of the population
considered here, but they account for 70 percent of infant deaths, 65 percent of people without access to safe water, and 77
of percent of children missing from primary school.
60% of undernourished
61% of impoverished
77% of children not in primary school
59% of children not in secondary school
70% of infant deaths
71% of child (under 5) deaths
64% of unattended births
43% of persons living with HIV/AIDS
65% of people without access to safe water
54% of people without access to improved
sanitation

Sources: World Bank 2010n; WDR team calculations based on Gates and others 2010.
Note: Current fragile and conﬂict-aﬀected states account for 33 percent of the population of the countries considered here. States recovering from fragility and
conﬂict account for an additional 14 percent of the population. So, if the MDG deﬁcit were borne evenly, these countries would account for 47 percent of each of the
ills described. The red to orange people-ﬁgures represent the percentage of the deﬁcit for each MDG in fragile, conﬂict-aﬀected, and recovering countries. The blue
ﬁgures represent the persons aﬄicted in other developing countries. Excluded here are Brazil, China, India, and Russian Federation, all signiﬁcantly ahead of or on
par with other developing countries on the MDGs (see panel a). Due to their size, including them in the calculations would skew any discussion involving the global
population.

63

Repeated violence threatens development

FIGURE 1.7

The widening gap in infant mortality rates between
countries affected by violence and others
Of countries where more than 1 in 10 infants died in the ﬁrst year of life
in 1990, those aﬀected by violence are lagging behind in reducing infant
mortality. The gap between these two sets of countries has doubled
since 1990.
130
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)

countries is lagging on nearly every indicator associated with the MDGs. The development deficit is concentrated in fragile
and conflict-affected and recovering states,54
which account for 77 percent of school-age
children not enrolled in primary school, 61
percent of the poverty, and 70 percent of infant mortality.55
People in fragile and conflict-affected
states are more likely to be impoverished, to
miss out on schooling, and to lack access to
basic health services. Children born in a fragile or conflict-affected state are twice as likely
to be undernourished and nearly twice as
likely to lack access to improved water; those
of primary-school age are three times as
likely not to be enrolled in school; and they
are nearly twice as likely to die before their
fifth birthday. As the world takes stock of
progress on the MDGs, it is apparent that the
gap between violence-prone countries and
other developing countries is widening.56
No low-income, fragile state has achieved a
single MDG, and few are expected to meet
targets by 2015.57 Because most fragile and
conflict-affected states have made slower
progress in the last 10 years, the gap is widening. For example, over the last two decades,
infant mortality has been falling in nearly all
countries,58 but the reduction in infant mortality in fragile and conflict-affected countries has lagged behind (figure 1.7). Of the
countries with infant mortality greater than
100 per 1,000 in 1990, those not affected by
conflict have reduced infant mortality by 31
percent—while fragile and conflict-affected
states reduced it by only 19 percent. If these
fragile and conflict-affected states had made
the same rate of progress on infant mortality
as other developing countries, almost a million more children in these countries each
year would survive their first year of life.
Subnational violence can have severe
socioeconomic consequences in middleincome countries. In countries with stronger
economies and institutions, impacts tend to
be relatively localized, but they still hold
back key segments of human development
and reduce the flow of foreign direct investment (FDI) into affected areas.59 In the In-

120
110
100
90
80
70
1990

1995

2000

2005

2008

Fragile and/or conﬂict-aﬀected 1990 to present
Not fragile or conﬂict-aﬀected

Sources: World Bank 2010n; WDR team calculations.
Note: Due to limited data, the most recent available data in the preceding ﬁve-year
period were used for the point estimates. The sample consists of all countries with
infant mortality higher than 100 per 1,000 live births. Low-income countries that
were never fragile or conﬂict-aﬀected from 1990 to 2008 are in the “non-fragile”
cohort, and countries aﬀected by conﬂict or fragile throughout the period are in the
“fragile and/or conﬂict-aﬀected” cohort.

donesian province of Aceh, the economic
cost of the conflict was estimated at US$10.7
billion, more than 60 percent of it through
the damage and destruction of agriculture,
livestock, enterprises, and fisheries. And during conflict, Aceh’s infant mortality and poverty were 50 percent higher than the national
average.60
The effects of violence are long-lasting.
For countries that have gone through civil
war, recovering to original growth paths
takes an average of 14 years of peace.61 Until
1990, Burkina Faso and Burundi had similar
incomes and growth paths. With the onset
of civil war in Burundi, real incomes declined to 1970 levels.62 With no major conflicts, Burkina Faso now has an income more
than two-and-a-half times that of Burundi
(figure 1.8). This effect was confirmed locally
in the Moving Out of Poverty study, which
found that conflict-affected villages that feared
renewed violence for two to three years out

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

Effects of violence on growth are dramatic and long-lasting

F I G U R E 1 .8

Until the early 1990s, per capita incomes and growth in Burkina Faso and Burundi were
similar. Following massive violence in Burundi, their growth paths diverged. In real terms,
Burundi has lost nearly two decades of income growth, with incomes set back to 1970 levels.
1,600

300

1,400

250

1,200
200

1,000
800

150

600

100

Battle deaths per year

GDP per capita (2005 US$)

400
50

200
0

08

06

20

04

20

02

20

00

20

98

20

96

19

94

19

92

19

90

19

88

19

86

19

84

Battle deaths in Burundi
Burundi GDP per capita

19

82

19

80

19

78

19

76

19

74

19

72

19

70

19

68

19

66

19

64

19

62

19

19

60

0

19

64

Battle deaths in Burkina Faso
Burkina Faso GDP per capita

Sources: World Bank 2010n; Gleditsch and others 2002; Gates and others 2010; Uppsala/PRIO Armed Conﬂict dataset
(Harbom and Wallensteen 2010; Lacina and Gleditsch 2005); WDR team calculations.

of the past decade stalled economically, while
non-conflict-affected communities experienced only two to four weeks of apprehension
over renewed violence and did not experience
economic slowdown.63
One reason for the persistence of low
growth in conflict-affected countries may be
the difficulty of reassuring investors, both
domestic and foreign. A civil war reduces a
country’s average rating on the International
Country Risk Guide by about 7.7 points (on
a 100-point scale); the effect is similar for
criminal violence.64 For the first three years
after conflict subsides, countries have a rating
3.5 points below similar non-conflict countries. Although there is often a postviolence
surge of economic activity, it is unlikely to
be investment-based activity that reflects renewed investor confidence. Trade can take
many years to recover as a result of investor
perceptions of risk. It can drop between 12
and 25 percent in the first year of a civil war,
and for the most severe civil wars (those with
a cumulative death toll greater than 50,000)
the loss of trade is around 40 percent.65And
the interruption in trade can persist even 25

years after the onset of conflict. While effects
are smaller for less severe conflicts, it still
takes on average 20 years for trade to recover
to pre-conflict levels.
Violence also has a lasting effect on human
rights. The Physical Rights Integrity Index,66 a
measure of respect for human rights, drops
on average by 3.6 points over the course of a
major civil war (on a scale of 0–8, with a score
of 0 indicating no government respect for human rights). That human rights abuses increase sharply during episodes of violence is
to be expected. Less expected, however, is that
after a conflict ends, the average society takes
more than 10 years to return to the level of
human rights observance before the conflict.67
The unraveling of trust citizens have in one
another and in the state due to violence is discussed in chapter 2.68
In addition to the human suffering, organized violence poses social and economic
costs that can dwarf the impact of other
events of concern to development practitioners, such as economic shocks and natural disasters. While all the costs cannot be quantified, conservative estimates of the economic

Repeated violence threatens development

costs of lost production range from 2 to 3
percent of GDP both for civil war and for
very high levels of violent crime (box 1.3).69
This does not include the destruction or loss
of assets, which can also be considerable. For
example, the material costs of crime in Latin
America and the Caribbean are estimated to
be nearly twice those of the United States, as
a percentage of GDP.70 Other indirect costs
may not always be reflected by measures of
productivity, as when military spending increases and commensurately reduces investments in development and human capital.
Military spending typically increases by 2.2
percent during civil war and remains 1.7 percent higher than prewar levels after conflict.71
As noted at the beginning of this chapter,
these estimates do not include the human
costs of conflict, including deaths, injury,
trauma, and stress.

Spillover effects of violence
The development consequences of violence,
like its origins, spill across borders, with implications for neighbors, for the region, and
globally. Violence in one country can create a
“bad neighborhood.” For example, the manifestations of conflict in Liberia under President Charles Taylor during the late 1990s
(people trained in violence, proliferation of
small arms, and illicit trade in timber and
diamonds) hurt Côte d’Ivoire, Guinea, and
Sierra Leone.72 Bad neighborhoods affect
economic prospects: estimates suggest that
countries lose 0.7 percent of their annual
GDP for each neighbor involved in civil
war.73 And a doubling of terrorist incidents in
a country is estimated to reduce bilateral
trade with each trading partner by some 4
percent.74 As terrorism taps into illicit global
markets, violent extremists can finance their
activities through smuggling, evading taxes,
trafficking drugs and counterfeit money, and
trading foreign currency on illegal exchanges
in Europe.75
Piracy also reduces regional trade and
economic activity, as, for example, Somali
pirates operating in the Gulf of Aden.76 To

B OX 1 . 3

Violent crime and insecurity exact high
economic costs

Indirect costs—associated with stress and trauma, time oﬀ work due to violent
incidents, and lower productivity from injury or mental illness—far overshadow
direct costs. In Brazil in 2004, the direct medical costs of all interpersonal violence
were estimated at US$235 million and the indirect medical costs at US$9.2 billion.
Comparable ﬁgures, respectively, for Jamaica are US$29.5 million and US$385
million, and for Thailand US$40.3 million and US$432 million. Emerging ﬁndings
from Kenya estimate total costs of violence at 1.2 percent of GDP. In the United
Kingdom, the direct costs of domestic violence are estimated at £5.7
billion annually.
When other indirect costs are added, such as those for policing, health care,
private security, and reduced investment, the ﬁgures are even more staggering.
In Guatemala, criminal violence cost an estimated US$2.4 billion, or 7.3 percent of
GDP, in 2005—more than twice the damage caused by Hurricane Stan the same
year, and more than twice the budget for the ministries of agriculture, health, and
education for 2006. In El Salvador, criminal violence in 2003 cost about US$1.7 billion, or 11.5 percent of GDP. The Mexican government estimates that crime and
violence cost the country 1 percent of GDP from lost sales, jobs, and investment
in 2007 alone. Estimates suggest that if Haiti and Jamaica reduced their crime levels to those of Costa Rica, they could increase annual GDP growth by 5.4 percentage points. These costs are comparable to estimates of the cost of civil war. Based
on growth base lines for cross-country panel date in the last 50 years, researchers
estimate the costs of civil wars to range from 1.6 percentage to 2.3 percentage of
GDP per year of violence. For the average country aﬀected by violence, these
eﬀects, compounded over time, can cost the equivalent of up to 30 years of missing GDP growth.
Insecurity takes a signiﬁcant toll on the private sector, in direct costs of criminal acts (theft, arson, or other victimization) and in investments in security systems. Cross-country surveys found that these costs represented 1–3 percent of
sales in Senegal, South Africa, Tanzania, and Uganda, and 6 percent in Kenya. In
nearly all cases, the bulk of these costs were for security technology and ser vices.
These estimates are conservative: other studies estimate the costs of crime to
range from 3.1 percent to 7.8 percent of GDP.
Sources: Collier and Hoeﬄer 2004; Butchart and others 2008; Walby 2004; Geneva
Declaration 2008; UNDP 2005c, 2006; UNODC and World Bank 2007; Skaperdas and
others 2009; Willman and Makisaka 2010; Farrell and Clark 2004; Altbeker 2005;
Alda and Cuesta 2010; Kenya Ministry of Public Health and Sanitation 2007; World
Bank 2010d.

counter piracy in the Horn of Africa and the
Indian Ocean, more than 27 countries deployed naval forces in anti-piracy missions,
with a range of costs estimated at US$1.3–2.0
billion annually.77 At a global level, efforts
aimed at containing and deterring maritime
piracy are estimated to range between US$1.7
and US$4.5 billion in 2010.78 All told, maritime piracy is estimated to have direct economic costs of between US$5.7 billion and
US$11.2 billion, once ransoms, insurance,
and rerouting of ships are included.79

65

66

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

The spillover effects of violence are not
just economic. As described above, nearly 75
percent of the world’s refugees are hosted by
neighboring countries.80 Refugees from Liberia and Togo have sought shelter in Ghana
for extended periods, straining the state’s
ability to deliver services and opening tensions with the local population.81 The massive influx of Kosovo Albanians into Macedonia in 1999 during the Kosovo conflict
heightened tensions between the Slavic majority and the Albanian minority.82 Infectious disease can also be traced to disrupted
health care associated with violence or areas
without public services. For every 1,000 refugees entering an African country, for example, the host state acquires 1,400 new malaria cases.83
Spillovers of violence and instability are
felt globally. Even for parts of the world fairly
immune to insecurity, thanks to wealth and
distance, the costs of global insecurity are
both psychological (in the preoccupation
with threats of gangs, trafficking, and terrorism) and very practical, through the increased
costs of security measures. A study of 18
Western European countries from 1971 to
2004 revealed that each additional transnational terrorist incident per million people
reduced economic growth by 0.4 percentage
points, and each additional domestic terrorist incident reduced it by 0.2.84 And after insurgents struck an export terminal owned by

Royal Dutch Shell in the oil-rich Niger Delta
in June 2009, oil prices rose US$2.33 a barrel
(3.4 percent) on the New York Mercantile
Exchange.85 In the four weeks following the
beginning of the uprising in Libya, oil prices
increased by 15 percent.86

Repeated violence is a shared
challenge
Political and criminal violence both disrupt
development—and occur in repeated cycles.
It is essential to look across that spectrum
and to consider local conflicts, social protest,
gang violence, organized crime, and transnational terrorism alongside the major civil
wars that have been the focus of most academic research. This interlocking landscape
raises questions about the coherence of the
approaches to deal with these various forms
of violence—approaches often divorced from
one another—as well as the treatment of
“post-conflict” reconstruction and “prevention” as separate problems. The risks of violence and the responses to it are shared by
countries across divides of income, national
identity, religion, and ideology. One of the
key messages of this Report is the shared
interest in global and regional peace and
prosperity—and the potential for greater exchanges between countries on how to address
the common challenges.

Repeated
Repeated
violence
violence
threatens
threatens
development
development

FEATURE 1

T

67 67

The interlinked and evolving nature of modern organized violence

he Caribbean has known political and criminal violence
for decades. Except for Cuba, every large island country and many smaller ones—the Bahamas, the Cayman Islands, the Dominican Republic, Haiti, Jamaica, St. Kitts and
Nevis, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and
Tobago—have homicide levels above 10 per 100,000. In some
of them, criminal gang activity has spilled over into political violence, with mutually reinforcing dynamics. Since 1970,
most of Haiti’s elections have been marked by violence—
with 34 deaths in 1987 and 89 in 2004—and the country
experienced political violence in 2010. The relationship can
be reversed as well; in some countries, drug trafficking has
exacerbated local organized violence.87
The Western Balkans are known for the civil wars that dissolved Yugoslavia in the 1990s. In the chaotic aftermath of the
wars, many turned to trafficking in drugs, people, human organs, and weapons, such that organized crime perpetrated the
most widespread and destabilizing violence.88 Crime has gradually declined in recent years, but organized crime remains formidable.89 Some 32 percent of human trafficking victims come
from or through the Balkans, and the Balkan route is the main
trafficking corridor for more than US$20 billion in heroin from
Afghanistan to Western Europe a year.90 Gang-related violence
targeted political figures. The Zemun gang, with close connections to heroin trafficking, assassinated Serbian Prime Minister
Zoran Djindjic in 2003.91
In West Africa, the conventional political conflict that began
in Liberia and spread to Sierra Leone and Côte d’Ivoire, later
gave way to more organized crime across the region, as warring
factions pillaged natural resources, drug trafficking networks
entered the region, and the rule of law weakened. What had
begun as a means of financing war became a successful business model for trafficking diamonds, timber, arms, and humans.92 Charles Taylor, the leader of one of the factions and
later president of Liberia, is accused in his indictment by the
Special Court of Sierra Leone of “a joint criminal enterprise . . .
[to exercise] control over the territory of Sierra Leone . . . and
the population . . . [through] unlawful killings, abductions,
forced labor, physical and sexual violence, use of child soldiers . . . .”93 It is estimated that Taylor amassed US$105–450
million through this criminal enterprise.94 At the height of the
conflict in Sierra Leone, illegal exports accounted for more
than 90 percent of its diamond trade,95 or more than US$200
million in 2002.96

In Nigeria, a largely subnational struggle in the oil-rich Niger Delta has given way to organized criminal syndicates that
deal in oil, arms, and kidnapped foreign workers. An estimated
250,000–300,000 barrels, valued at more than US$3.8 billion,
are stolen each year through “oil bunkering” (the theft of oil
from pipelines or storage facilities).97 Local gangs and political
groups can also be drawn into ethnic violence; in the 2007
election aftermath in Kenya, gangs and politically motivated
groups engaged in ethnically aligned violence.98
In Afghanistan, Pakistan, and the tribal areas on their borders, violence from the headline conflict in the region—between the government and international forces and the Taliban
and other armed groups—is linked to drug trafficking and
criminal violence, as well as kidnapping, extortion, and smuggling of a range of natural resources. New tensions and the
presence of foreign fighters exacerbate long-standing conflicts
between capitals and peripheral regions over power, governance, and resources.
Tensions and violence between ethnic groups can quickly
transform into political violence where elections and other political contests affect the distribution of power and resources.
In the Solomon Islands in the late 1990s, skirmishes between
armed militias from the two main islands of Guadalcanal and
Malaita, which displaced some 35,000 Malaitan settlers, culminated in the emergence of a Malaitan militia group, which—in
response to the government’s failure to curb Guadalcanal militancy—forced the resignation of the prime minister. In Papua
New Guinea, longstanding ethnic and tribal conflicts in the
Highlands—caused by a mix of traditional animosities, competition for resources, and land disputes—morphed into
“raskol” gang activities in Port Moresby and other urban areas.99 The advent of international operations to exploit timber
and minerals has added fuel to preexisting ethnic contests over
natural resources.
Cross-border violence goes beyond the destabilization from
sanctuaries in neighboring countries, as in West Africa and the
Afghanistan-Pakistan border areas. Uganda’s Lord’s Resistance
Army has spread far beyond its original geographical origins to
operate across a wide number of countries and borders—again
drawing on criminal trafficking for its financing. And Somali
pirates hijacked more than 125 merchant ships passing through
the Gulf of Aden in 2009.
Many religious and ideological grievances in one part of the
world are grafted onto a local conflict in some faraway place.

68

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

At the height of the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the
1990s, Islamic groups from outside the region joined the fight
alongside Bosnian Muslims.100 Likewise, foreign fighters and
ideological links between armed groups dominate international press coverage of Afghanistan and Iraq, though spillovers of international ideological groups into the Sahel, affecting countries as isolated and historically peaceful as Mali, get
less attention.
In other cases, violence may be linked through underlying
institutional weaknesses. Yemen now faces four separate conflicts: the Houthi rebellion in the North, the presence of AlQaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, grievances in the south, and

the popular protests for change that have swept through the
Arab world. There is little direct evidence of links between
these conflicts, other than through the weakness of national
institutions to address them.101

Sources: Harriott 2004; Curtis and Karacan 2002; Shanty and Mishra 2008;
Andreas 2004; International Crisis Group 2003; UNODC 2008, 2010a; Anastasijevic 2006; Special Court for Sierra Leone Office of the Prosecutor
2007; Lipman 2009; Coalition for International Justice 2005; Duffield
2000; Gberie 2003a; Even-Zohar 2003; Davies, von Kemedi, and Drennan
2005; International Crisis Group 2008b; Ashforth 2009; Porter, Andrews,
and Wescott 2010; Kohlmann 2004.

Notes
1. These numbers include best estimates of battle deaths from Uppsala/PRIO Armed Conflict Dataset
(Lacina and Gleditsch 2005; Harbom and Wallensteen 2010).
2. For details on regional trends in homicide, see the background paper on homicides prepared for
this Report by Fearon 2010b and the 2008 Global Burden of Armed Violence report (Geneva Declaration 2008). Homicide rates decreased for nearly every region of the world, except Latin America
and the Caribbean; however, insufficient data are available on current and past homicide rates in
Sub-Saharan Africa to establish a regional trend.
3. WDR team calculations based on Powell and Thyne 2011.
4. OAS 2001.
5. The number of coup attempts also decreased, from 22 in the 1990s to 12 from 2000 through 2009.
The average success rate of a coup attempt in the 1990s was 40 percent, compared to 29 percent in
the period 2000–09 (see Powell and Thyne 2011).
6. Lutz and Reiger 2009.
7. WDR team calculation based on World Bank 2010n.
8. Throughout this Report, countries affected by fragility, violence, and conflict include (1) countries
affected by high levels of criminal violence—countries with homicide rates greater than 10 per
100,000 population, (2) conflict-affected countries—countries with major civil conflict (battle
deaths greater than 1,000 per annum as defined in the Uppsala/PRIO Armed Conflict Database
(Harbom and Wallensteen 2010; Lacina and Gleditsch 2005) from 2006 to 2009, (3) countries with
UN or regionally mandated peacebuilding or peacekeeping, non-border missions, (4) fragile countries—low-income countries with institutional levels (World Bank’s CPIA less than 3.2) in 2006–09
(see World Bank 2010e). “Low income fragile and conflict-affected countries” are low-income countries that meet any of the last three criteria (homicide data are not consistently available for many
low-income countries). Following World Bank definitions, “developing countries” includes both
low- and middle-income countries.
9. Human Security Report Project, forthcoming.
10. Ross 2003; McNeish 2010.
11. Ross 2003.
12. Demombynes 2010; UNODC 2010a.
13. Harriott 2004; Shanty and Mishra 2008; UNODC 2010a; Duffield 2000; Gberie 2003a; International Crisis Group 2008b; Ashforth 2009; Porter, Andrews, and Wescott 2010.
14. Constraints tended to operate in ritualized warfare in Melanesia that, for example, served to limit the
number of people killed or restrict the parties against whom violence could be used. The Interna-

Repeated violence threatens development

15.
16.
17.
18.

19.

20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.

27.

28.
29.
30.
31.
32.

33.

34.

35.
36.

37.

38.

tional Committee of the Red Cross compares these “traditional” constraints on the use of violence to
those pertaining in modern international humanitarian law. See Dinnen, Porter, and Sage 2010.
Brands 2009; Parson 2010.
International Crisis Group 2009c.
Thapa 2010.
The UN Secretary-General’s High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges, and Change defined terrorism as “any action, in addition to actions already specified by the existing conventions on aspects of
terrorism, that is intended to cause death or serious bodily harm to civilians or noncombatants,
when the purpose of such an act, by its nature or context, is to intimidate a population, or to compel
a government or an international organization to do or to abstain from doing any act” (UN 2004a,
52). Earlier debates focused on whether definitions should be based only on nonstate actors; the
High-level Panel pointed out that issues of state use of force against civilians are covered in the international laws of war, international criminal law, and international humanitarian law. See also
Geneva Conventions 1949; UN 1998.
Most notably, the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building by terrorists affiliated with the U.S. Militia Movement, in which 168 people died: the most destructive attack
on U.S. soil prior to September 11, 2001. See Foxnews.com 2001.
UNODC 2010a.
UNODC 2010a, 235–36.
UNODC 2010b.
Jordan 1999; Lupsha 1991.
See Demombynes 2010.
Demombynes 2010.
Estimate of number of gang members from Comisión de Jefes y Jefas de Policía de Centroamérica
y El Caribe in World Bank 2010c. In terms of military forces, Nicaragua and Honduras have armies
of about 12,000 soldiers each, El Salvador has 13,000 soldiers, and Guatemala has 27,000 (see Rodgers, Muggah, and Stevenson 2009).
UNODC 2010a. This figure only accounts for illicit flows of criminal activities, namely drug, arms,
trafficking people, smuggling, counterfeit currency and goods, and racketeering. Including corruption and fraudulent commercial activities, the value of illicit flows increase to as high as US$1.1
trillion annually. See also Baker 2005.
Van der Elst and Davis 2011; Glenny 2008; Garzón 2008; Naim 2006; Schneider, Buehn, and
Montenegro 2010.
UNODC 2010b.
UNODC 2010b.
UNODC 2010b.
See Uppsala/PRIO Armed Conflict Database (Harbom and Wallensteen 2010; Lacina and Gleditsch
2005). For discussions of the trends in civil war onset and termination see Hewitt, Wilkenfeld, and
Gurr 2010; Sambanis 2004; Elbadawi, Hegre, and Milante 2008; Collier and others 2003.
The statistics in table 1.2 are based on the incidence of civil war after World War II, thus countries
with previous conflicts in the 1960s are those that had conflicts between 1945 and 1959, and those
with conflicts in the 1970s had conflict between 1945 and 1969, and so on.
See Skaperdas and others 2009 and Geneva Declaration 2008 for a deeper exploration of these costs
and of the methods for measuring them. See also Human Security Report Project, forthcoming, for
a discussion of measuring direct and indirect deaths associated with civil wars and other conflict.
Geneva Declaration 2008, 1.
Country representative samples were used for Côte d’Ivoire, Sierra Leone, and Colombia. The surveys were undertaken in regions of the Democratic Republic of Congo and Mali. Independent
representative samples were used in Gaza and the West Bank. The original country sample included
Haiti; however, the survey could not be undertaken following the earthquake of January 2010.
See Justino and Verwimp 2008; Blattman, forthcoming. See also papers published through the
Households in Conflict Network (http://www.hicn.org) for broader analysis of micro-level conflict
effects on households and individuals.
These results are based on country year fixed effect Generalized Least Squares regressions for a
panel of developing countries from 1981 to 2005, based on poverty data from Chen, Ravallion, and
Sangraula 2008 (available on POVCALNET (http://iresearch.worldbank.org)) and the WDR database. Countries with three years of major violence (major civil war or violent deaths above 10 per

69

70

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.

49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.

58.
59.
60.
61.
62.

63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.

100,000, equivalent to a major civil war) lagged behind other countries by 2.7 percentage points on
poverty headcount. Those with minor civil war (or equivalent homicides) lagged behind countries
without violence by 1.29 percentage points. These results were statistically significant at the p < 0.10
level and robust to period effects and time trends.
Anderlini 2010a.
Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action 1995; Women’s Refugee Commission 2009; UNICEF
2004.
UNFPA 2002; Plümper and Neumayer 2006; Murray and others 2002; Bastick, Grimm, and Kunz
2007; El Jack 2003.
American Psychological Association 1996; Dahlberg 1998; Verdú and others 2008.
UN 2000, 2011.
Human Security Centre 2005.
Bastick, Grimm, and Kunz 2007.
See UNDP 2005b; Peruvian Truth and Reconciliation Commission 2003.
Bijleveld, Morssinkhof, and Smeulers 2009.
Effects in this table drawn from multiple sources: Amnesty International 2005; Brück and Schindler 2008; Carpenter 2006; Chamarbagwala and Morán 2011; Bijleveld, Morssinkhof, and Smeulers 2009; Chun and Skjelsbæk 2010; El Jack 2003; Falch 2010; Finegan and Margo 1994; GuerreroSerdán 2009; Heuveline and Poch 2007; Ibáñez and Moya 2006; ICRC 2001; Internal Displacement
Monitoring Centre 2007; International Alert and Eastern Africa Sub-Regional Support Initiative
for the Advancement of Women 2007; ILO 2009; Jayaraman, Gebreselassie, and Chandrasekhar
2009; Kelly 2010; Lamb and Dye 2009; Lewis 2009; Menon and Rodgers 2010; Peltz 2006; Murray
and others 2002; Ndulo 2009; Plümper and Neumayer 2006; Prieto-Rodríguez and RodríguezGutiérrez 2003; Li and Wen 2005; Rehn and Johnson Sirleaf 2002; Shemyakina 2006; Torres 2002;
UNFPA 2007; UN 2002, 2006b; Verwimp and Van Bavel 2005; Verpoorten 2003; Ward and Marsh
2006; Willman and Makisaka 2010; Women’s Refugee Commission 2008; Verdú and others 2008;
WHO 2010.
Ward and Marsh 2006.
Lewis 2009; Willman and Makisaka 2010; Anderlini 2010a; Carpenter 2006.
Internal Displacement Monitoring Centre 2010.
UNHCR 2009.
Gomez and Christensen 2010; Harild and Christensen 2010.
“Recovering countries” are those affected by fragility, conflict, or violence in the previous 10 years.
Similar effects are found in Bowman and others 2008.
See also Geneva Declaration 2010.
In 2010, after 10 years, fragile and conflict-affected states had closed only 20 percent of the gap in
reaching the MDGs, while low-income countries not affected by violence had closed 40–70 percent
of their MDG gap (see World Bank 2010e). Current data compiled for the MDG Summit in 2010
show that no low-income fragile or conflict-affected state has met the targets for a single MDG.
Some countries are close and have made dramatic gains in recent years and it is possible that they
could meet targets. For more information, see World Bank 2010n; UNSTAT 2010; UN 2007.
Progress in basic health services has advanced even in war zones; see the Human Security Report
Project, forthcoming, for a description of global trends.
Lacina, Gleditsch, and Russett 2006.
RAND Corporation 2009.
Hoeffler, von Billerbeck, and Ijaz 2010.
Note that civil war coding in the Armed Conflict Database does not include all political violence. As
evidenced by the experience of Burundi, while the onset of political violence resulted in battle
deaths coded as civil war in Burundi in 1991, there was one-sided violence in the 1960s through
1980s in Burundi. See the Uppsala/PRIO Armed Conflict Database (Harbom and Wallensteen 2010;
Lacina and Gleditsch 2005).
Narayan and Petesch 2010, 12.
Hoeffler, von Billerbeck, and Ijaz 2010.
Martin, Mayer, and Thoenig 2008.
For more details on the Index see Cingranelli and Richards 1999.
Hoeffler, von Billerbeck, and Ijaz 2010.
Hoeffler, von Billerbeck, and Ijaz 2010.

Repeated violence threatens development

69. For an overview of costs of conflict and violence, see Skaperdas and others 2009. Specific estimates
of the economic costs associated with conflict are found in Hoeffler, von Billerbeck, and Ijaz 2010;
Imai and Weinstein 2000; Collier and Hoeffler 1998; Stewart, Huang, and Wang 2001; Cerra and
Saxena 2008; Collier, Chauvet, and Hegre 2007. An overview for the estimates of the cost of crime is
found in Skaperdas and others 2009, with specific estimates in Riascos and Vargas 2004; UNDP
2006.
70. Skaperdas and others 2009 survey the recent literature on costs of crime. Material costs of crime,
including injuries, property damage, and theft, were estimated as 3.6 percent of GDP for the Latin
American and Caribbean countries and 2.1 percent of GDP for the United States.
71. Hoeffler, von Billerbeck, and Ijaz 2010.
72. Patrick 2006.
73. Bayer and Rupert 2004, while Baker and others 2002 found that the effect of conflict is equivalent
to a 33 percent tariff barrier. For an updated discussion of the methodology for determining growth
effects of conflict and theory and new analysis based on primary and secondary neighbors, see De
Groot 2010; Murdoch and Sandler 2002; Bayer and Rupert 2004. The effects of conflict on trade are
reviewed in Glick and Taylor 2005.
74. The study investigated bilateral trade flows in more than 200 countries from 1960–93 (see Nitsch
and Schumacher 2004).
75. Europol 2007.
76. See Gilpin 2009.
77. For methodology, see Bowden 2010; for cost to the U.S. Navy, see U.S. Government Accountability
Office 2010a. For additional information, see European Affairs 2010 and Hanson 2010.
78. This figure includes ranges for the costs of deterrent security equipment, cost of naval forces, cost of
piracy prosecutions, and operating cost of anti-piracy organizations (see Bowden 2010).
79. Included in this figure are the costs of ransoms, insurance premium, rerouting, deterrent security
equipment, naval forces, piracy prosecutions, and anti-piracy organizations (see Bowden 2010;
Chalk 2008).
80. Gomez and Christensen 2010; Harild and Christensen 2010.
81. Out of 13,658 refugees in Ghana at the end of 2009, nearly 11,500 were from Liberia (84 percent)
with a further 1,600 from Togo (12 percent) (UNHCR 2010).
82. See International Crisis Group 1999; Salehyan and Gleditsch 2006.
83. See Patrick 2006. Also see Collier and others 2003; Garrett 2005; National Intelligence Council
2000, 37.
84. Gaibulloev and Sandler 2008.
85. Mufson 2009.
86. WDR team calculations based on Europe Brent Spot Price FOB (dollars per barrel) reported by the
U.S. Energy Information Administration 2011.
87. Harriott 2004.
88. See Curtis and Karacan 2002; Shanty and Mishra 2008; Andreas 2004; International Crisis Group
2003.
89. UNODC 2008.
90. UNODC 2010a.
91. Anastasijevic 2006.
92. UNODC 2010a; Harwell 2010.
93. Special Court for Sierra Leone Office of the Prosecutor 2007, 5.
94. Lipman 2009; Coalition for International Justice 2005; Duffield 2000.
95. Gberie 2003a.
96. Even-Zohar 2003.
97. Davies, von Kemedi, and Drennan 2005.
98. International Crisis Group 2008b; Ashforth 2009.
99. Porter, Andrews, and Wescott 2010.
100. Kohlmann 2004.
101. International Crisis Group 2009c.

71

T

hroughout history, agreement between powerful leaders has
been the most common strategy to prevent large-scale violence. This type of agreement, which we call an “elite pact,”
does impose security for periods, but violence generally recurs. The
immediate cause of the violence varies greatly by country, with many
countries experiencing a combination of security, economic, and
political stresses. These stresses may be internal (including low income or high inequality between groups) or they may be external
(including global economic shocks, international drug traﬃcking, or
the inﬁltration of foreign forces). This Report argues that in these
environments, institutions and governance serve as an “immune
system” and defense against stresses. When these stresses occur in
societies with weak institutions and governance, violence often
occurs. Reform is often diﬃcult or impossible where violence is present. As a result, countries that fail to build legitimate institutions risk
entering a vicious cycle of repeated violence and weak institutions.
This chapter spells out what we know about this vicious cycle and
why some countries are more vulnerable to violence than others.

CHAPTER

2

Weak
institutions
not transforming

New
pact

New
stresses

Vulnerability to Violence
VIOLENCE and
FRAGILITY

VIOLENCE and
FRAGILITY

Multiple stresses raise the risks
of violence

E

conomic, political, and security
factors can all exacerbate the risks
of violence. Some of these factors
are domestic, such as low incomes,
high unemployment, and inequality of different sorts. Some factors may originate outside the state, such as external economic
shocks or the infiltration of international
drug cartels or foreign fighters. This Report
refers to these triggers of violence as “security,
economic, and justice stresses” (see table 2.1).
Often related, they rarely exist in isolation.
This Report summarizes what is known
about the factors associated with organized
violence and development. It draws on research from a variety of fields, particularly
research on the risk of civil war, largely because it is further advanced than research on
violent organized crime, trafficking, gang activity, or terrorism (box 2.1).
Our approach is multidisciplinary and
draws on both quantitative and qualitative
evidence. Box 2.1 reviews the literature from
various disciplines on causes of conflict.
Often this debate has been characterized as
“greed versus grievance.”1 This chapter describes how the stresses in table 2.1 can precipitate organized violence through a vicious
cycle of vulnerability to violence. Later, in

chapter 3, the framework demonstrates how
countries can build institutions that are resilient to these stresses to prevent organized
violence, moving the discussion beyond the
base causes of “greed and grievance” and
showing how justice and jobs can work together to promote confidence and help to
deliver citizen security.
Where possible, quantitative and econometric work has been used to assess the importance of the stress factors listed, but there
are data constraints. Data on civil wars at the
national level are fairly comprehensive, but
data on extreme criminal violence, normally
measured by homicides, are incomplete for
many developing countries, let alone parts of
these countries. Cross-country data are fairly
good for economic factors, such as incomes
and growth rates, but the comparability of
data on unemployment is poor. Data are reasonably reliable for income inequality within
countries, but less so for inequality among
geographical areas and among ethnic or religious groups, and for political exclusion or
injustice. Therefore, new survey data, country case studies, and country consultations
complement the analysis here.

Security stresses
Internal security stresses can arise when
particular elites or groups feel threatened—

74

TA B L E 2.1

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

Security, economic, and political stresses
This table is not e xhaustive, but reﬂects major factors identiﬁed in the academic literature and raised in WDR consultations on the
causes of violence.2 The complex relationship between factors that can trigger violence and the onset of violence is similar to the
relationship between health threats and risk factors at individual, relationship, community, and societal levels found in the public
health/ecological framework developed by the World Health Organization.3
Stresses

Internal

External

Security

•

Legacies of violence and trauma

•
•
•
•
•

Invasion, occupation
External support for domestic rebels
Cross-border conﬂict spillovers
Transnational terrorism
International criminal networks

Economic

•
•
•
•
•

Low income levels, low opportunity cost of
rebellion
Youth unemployment
Natural resource wealth
Severe corruption
Rapid urbanization

•
•

Price shocks
Climate change

•
•
•

Ethnic, religious, or regional competition
Real or perceived discrimination
Human rights abuses

•

Perceived global inequity and injustice in the
treatment of ethnic or religious groups

Justice

Source: Compiled by the WDR team from the literature cited in box 2.1 and from WDR team consultations.

often as a result of past oppression—and
organize to defend themselves. In interstate
war, a preemptive move based on perceptions of the other state’s intentions is called
a “security dilemma.” If one state believes
another is preparing to attack, it may decide to strike first to give itself a decisive
advantage. Understood as a trigger for war
from the time of the Greeks, preemption featured strongly in Cold War strategic thinking
and follows from the realist approaches to
international relations, though opinions are
mixed about its validity under international
law.4 In the late 1990s, researchers asked
whether security dilemmas were causing civil
wars as well.5 If one group believes that another clan, ethnic, or religious group is preparing to attack, it may choose to make the
first move. How often this occurs is debatable, but this risk is now accepted.6
Manipulating fears of oppression has been
a factor causing civil conflicts as distinct as
the Rwandese genocide and the Balkan wars
of the 1990s. And it can be an obstacle to
ending violence—once conflicts break out,
perceptions of the enemy harden and societies tend to portray their opponents in dis-

torted and fearsome terms.7 Security dilemmas and defensive arming are also prevalent
among criminal groups. The illicit nature of
drug markets means that traffickers often resort to violence to settle disputes both within
and between trafficking organizations, since
they do not have access to the formal legal
system to adjudicate disputes and constrain
the misuse of group funds or property. For
these groups, violence becomes the first recourse for enforcing contracts.8
External threats to security can heighten
internal pressures. Many states face pressure
or incursions from outside state and nonstate
actors. That external actors could at any time
intervene in a country makes it particularly
difficult for internal actors to make credible
commitments with each other—as in the
“internationalized” civil conflicts in Afghanistan or the Democratic Republic of Congo.
International trafficking networks can also
place heavy pressures on local institutions
(see box 2.2). Outside resources and armed
intervention may tip the scales in favor of
one actor, allowing it to renege on agreements with other actors. This can come in
the form of attacks from “safe havens” in

75

Vulnerability to violence

B OX 2.1

Economic and political theories of violence and this Report

Violent conﬂict has been the subject of large and long-standing literatures in many academic disciplines, and this report draws from
many strands of that literature.

Rapid change and rising expectations
One common perspective has been the importance of drivers such as rapid economic and social change. Drawing on research by psychologists and sociologists, Gurr argued that social and political conﬂict arises when groups experience feelings of “relative deprivation” and the frustration of expectations for deserved or anticipated economic or social status. Huntington agreed that economic modernization raises expectations and mobilizes members of traditional societies toward national politics, contending that conﬂict occurs
when political institutions lack the capacity to accommodate and manage rapidly rising demands.

Failing to credibly agree to abstain from violence
Many economists and political scientists see violence as originating from “commitment problems”—situations where organized groups
have opposing interests but cannot credibly agree to abstain from violence for a variety of reasons. The focus in these theories is on
the diﬃculty of groups or individuals in some settings to commit themselves to not using force when it would be advantageous to do
so. This thinking can be traced back as far as Hobbes, who contended that violent civil conﬂict is a consequence of low state capacity
to deter challengers and manage conﬂict among groups in society. Recent theories on opportunistic arming and consequent violence
can be found in Hirshleifer, Skaperdas, Grossman, and Fearon. Becker developed a rational actor model of crime. Thinking on the “security dilemma”—that arming for defense can also be used to attack, leading to violence—can be traced to Schelling, Posen, Snyder and
Jervis, and de Figueiredo and Weingast.

Greed or grievance
These contending theories have led to debates over the relative importance of normative and economic motives for violence, which
has recently led to debates on whether economic incentives or broader social and political motives drive societies to violence. This
question was formulated as “Greed and Grievance” by Collier and Hoeﬄer, who suggested that primary commodities, diasporas, low
earnings, human capital, and dispersed populations were positively correlated to the outbreak of civil conﬂict, suggesting support for
the “greed” hypothesis. Further exploration, review and critique of these issues can be found in Nathan and Sambanis, as well as
Satyanath, Miguel, and Sergenti and Blattman and Miguel.9

Horizontal inequality and identity
Signiﬁcant contributions to this debate include recent theories of polarization and horizontal inequality and analysis of violence based
solely on identity, such as nationalism and ethnicity. Theories of horizontal inequality as developed by Stewart, and polarization proposed by Esteban and Ray argue that inequality alone does not predict civil war—violence may be driven by relationships between
inequality and identity that contribute to the onset of civil violence.10 In addition, national or ethnic identity may lead to a violent
response to oppression or marginalization and need not include any equity concerns, but may be motivated instead by a disposition
for self-government.11

Ethnic divides and commitment problems
Bridging the arguments on grievance and rational choice motives for conﬂict, Fearon contends that ethnic polarization is most likely to
precipitate conﬂict when ethnic groups cannot make credible commitments to abstain from violence. This is consistent with the philosophy in this Report: both political and economic dynamics are often at play, and neither greed nor grievance alone is suﬃcient to
explain the incidence of violence.

Avenues for peaceful contests
The question remains: why do some societies avoid violence when others do not? To answer this question, we build on the hypotheses
put forward by North, Wallis, and Weingast, who focus on impersonal institutions with open access to political and economic opportunities, creating avenues for peaceful and credible contestation.12 Besley and Persson contend that investments in legal systems and
state capacity can reduce the incidence of violence. Keefer argues that violence occurs when societies cannot collectively punish
leaders who engage in predatory behavior or collectively build a capable counterinsurgency force, suggesting that institutionalized
political parties serve as a bulwark against conﬂict by resolving these problems of collective action and credibility. Recent empirical
quantitative evidence supports these hypotheses—Goldstone and others ﬁnd that the quality of political institutions is an order of
magnitude more important than other factors in determining risks of political crises and civil wars, while Brückner and Ciccone suggest
that institutions are necessary to accommodate shocks in prices to avoid violence. More work is needed to conﬁrm these ﬁndings thus
to better understand the channels through which institutions contribute to resilience to violence.
(box continues on next page)

76

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

BOX 2.1

Economic and political theories of violence and this Report (continued)

Institutions matter in preventing violence
This chapter draws on existing research on the risk factors of violence across the political science, social science, and economic
disciplines and extends understanding of violent conﬂict in two ways:
•

It presents the risk factors associated with violence, organized into security, economic, and political factors. This adds to existing
work on drivers of conﬂict, with an emphasis on the role of external stresses—those outside a country’s control. Examples are
international organized crime and traﬃcking, inﬁltration of foreign ﬁghters, and economic shocks.

•

It then presents empirical ﬁndings that support arguments by theorists (such as North, Wallis, and Weingast) that institutions matter for violence prevention. It concludes by hypothesizing why and how the failure to develop legitimate, capable, and accountable
institutions causes repeated cycles of violence.

Sources: Gurr 1970; Hobbes 1651; Hirshleifer 1995; Skaperdas 1996; Grossman 1991; Fearon 1995, 2004; Schelling 1960; Posen 1993; Snyder and Jervis 1999;
de Figueiredo and Weingast 1999; Collier and Hoeﬄer 2004; Nathan 2005; Sambanis 2004; Satyanath, Miguel, and Sergenti 2004; Blattman and Miguel
2010; Esteban and Ray 2008; Stewart 2005, 2010; Keefer 2008, forthcoming; North, Wallis, and Weingast 2009; Besley and Persson 2009, 2010; Huntington
1968; Goldstone and others 2010; Becker 1968; Brückner and Ciccone 2010.

REFLECTIONS FROM ADVISORY COUNCIL MEMBERS: 2011 WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT
B OX 2 . 2

The stress posed by transnational organized crime and drug trafficking
Jorge Montaño, Member, International Narcotics Control Board; former Ambassador of Mexico to the
United States; WDR Advisory Council Member
The diversiﬁcation and sophistication that characterizes the
challenge of transnational organized crime demands coordinated global action. Drug and human traﬃcking, money
laundering, illegal exploitation of natural resources and
wildlife, counterfeiting and violations of intellectual property rights are lucrative criminal activities which facilitate
the penetration by organized crime of the already vulnerable sociopolitical, judicial, and security structures in developing countries.
In Central America, for example, several countries that
regained political stability two decades ago are now facing
the decay of the state, whose institutions lack the strength
to face this onslaught. Transnational organized crime has
converted some Caribbean countries into corridors for the
movement of illegal drugs and persons to Europe and North
America. Bolivia, Colombia, and Peru continue to be the
main global cocaine producers, while Mexico is presently
facing an unprecedented wave of violence given its border
with the largest immigrant, drug consumption, and arms
producing market. West Africa has become the newest passageway for drugs coming from South America destined for

Europe. Several African countries suﬀer the illegal exploitation
of their natural resources, while Asia is a hub for tons of opiates
originating from Afghanistan. It is evident that there is a lack
of a coordinated multilateral strategy against a phenomenon
that cannot be dealt with in a fragmented way.
In industrialized countries, organized crime syndicates
operate with minimal use of violence, thus assuring that the
heavy hand of the law does not interfere in their activities,
both in the banking system as well as satisfying the insatiable
market for illegal drugs. In developing countries, on the other
hand, organized criminal groups take advantage of apparent
impunity to acquire access to a limitless supply of arms, with
which they destabilize national and local institutions.
The unprecedented progression of organized crime could
spell the collapse of many weak states as their institutions fall
prey to the associated violence. The precarious economic
development observed in many regions of the world provides
a stimulus for consolidating these illegal activities, which will
continue to thrive as a consequence of the impunity they
encounter in developing countries.

neighboring countries (for example, Hutu
rebels crossing into Rwanda from the Democratic Republic of Congo).13 It can also come
from the activities of drug traffickers (much
of Central America today) or transnational

terrorists (such as “Al-Qaeda in the Maghreb”
activity in northern Mali).14 Some countries—Afghanistan and Somalia—have had
the misfortune of experiencing all these
forms of external security stress, in addition

77

Vulnerability to violence

B OX 2.3

Spillover of conflicts in Central Africa

The countries of Central Africa have been engaged for decades
in a variety of conﬂicts that often spill across borders. The
maps here show the locations of major conﬂict events involving rebel groups that operate across borders for two periods:
1997 to 2000 and 2006 to 2009. Each colored circle indicates a
geospatial information system-coded conﬂict event involving
groups originating from a given country, identiﬁed in the legend (usually a battle, though establishing a headquarters and
recruitment campaigns are also included). Many conﬂict events
involve groups active across borders.
Highlighting the spillover of conﬂict across borders in
Burundi, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Rwanda, Sudan,

and Uganda, and increasingly in the later period, in the Central
African Republic and Chad, these maps show how violent
groups can disperse and commingle in areas of weak governance. These groups make common cause when it suits them
to do so and shift their bases of operations to conform to local
political opportunities. Much of their raison d’être has become
proﬁt, plunder, or simple subsistence, with political goals at
times stronger, at times weaker. Such groups as the Lord’s
Resistance Army no longer have a strong domestic base,
so they continue moving opportunistically among areas of
instability.

M A P A Cross-border political violence spreads across Central Africa

Violence is not e asily contained. The colored circles represent conﬂict events by those militant and rebel groups that are active
across borders. Recent violence has spilled across many borders in Central Africa, most notably those of the Central African
Republic, Chad, the Democratic Republic of Congo, and Sudan.
a. January 1997–March 2000

b. October 2006–December 2009
IBRD 38416
March 2011

Country of orgin for violent groups active
across borders in Central Africa, 1997–2000:
D. R. of Congo
Rwanda
Burundi
Uganda
Sudan
Chad

CHAD

CHAD

SUDAN
SUDAN

MAP HERE

MAP HERE
CENTRAL AFRICAN
REPUBLIC

CENTRAL AFRICAN
REPUBLIC

UGANDA

UGANDA

DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC
OF CONGO

DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC
OF CONGO

BURUNDI
BURUNDI

IBRD 38415
March 2011

Country of orgin for violent groups active
across borders in Central Africa, 2006–2009:
D. R. of Congo
Rwanda
Burundi
Uganda
Sudan
Chad

Source: Raleigh and others 2010; Raleigh 2010.

to internal stresses.15 Areas with cross-border
ethnic links and low civilian government
presence have long been subject to insecurity—and remain so today (box 2.3).
External security threats can also develop
out of violence in neighboring countries. As

RWANDA

RWANDA

described in chapter 1, the “neighborhood effect” can both increase the risk of civil war in
countries with neighbors at war and have detrimental development effects over borders.16
The movement of persons trained in violence,
the displacement of persons who may cross

Central African Republic

78

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

borders and become refugees, the disruption
of trade, the expansion of criminal networks
through globalization or trafficking, and the
safe haven that rebels often seek by crossing
borders suggest that violence cannot be easily
contained, especially when institutions in
neighboring countries are weak (box 2.4).17
These spillovers effects can also derive
from interstate conflicts in a region. The invasion of Kuwait in 1990, the occupation of
Iraq in 2003, and the military operations in
the West Bank and Gaza are, in historical
terms, less common than invasion and occupation were earlier in the 20th century—but
had profound effects on neighbors.
External movements that have common
cause with local groups and internal poltical
movements can act as stresses. While motives
for individuals to join ideology-based groups
may be linked to beliefs in larger causes, the
ability of these groups to garner local support depends on relating these larger narratives to local claims of injustice. A more material ethos prevails in the business alliances
between local gangs and transnational drug
cartels in Latin America.

BOX 2.4

External stresses: The deportation of the maras

One notable external stress for Central America was the U.S. deportation of
maras in the 1990s. One of the main gangs (maras) to be deported, La Mara Salvatrucha, was established in Los Angeles in the late 1970s and early 1980s by
mainly Salvadoran and Guatemalan refugees and immigrants to the United
States. In 1996, the U.S. Congress passed the Illegal Immigration Reform and
Immigrant Responsibility Act, whereby non-U.S. citizens sentenced to one year
or more in prison were to be repatriated to their countries of origin. Between
1998 and 2005, the United States deported nearly 46,000 convicted felons to
Central America, in addition to another 160,000 illegal immigrants.
El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras received more than 90 percent of the
deportees, many of them members of the maras who had arrived in the United
States as children. On being sent back to countries they barely knew, they reproduced the structures and behaviors that had given them support and security in
the United States, founding gangs that quickly attracted local youth.
This deportation did not aﬀect all countries in Central America equally.
Nicaragua, for example, has a comparatively low deportation rate from the
United States—with fewer than 3 percent of all Central American deportees.
The diﬀerence in settlement and deportation may be one factor explaining why
gangs in El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras are more violent than those in
Nicaragua.
Sources: Rodgers, Muggah, and Stevenson 2009; WDR regional consultation in Mexico
City with government oﬃcials, academics, and development practitioners from Latin
America.

Economic stresses
Low incomes reduce the opportunity cost of
engaging in violence. From an economic perspective, it is important to understand the
cost-benefit calculus for decisions by those
who become involved in violence, as the literature on criminal motives has traditionally
highlighted.18 Much recent research on civil
war has focused on economic motives, with
rebellion perceived to offer economic rents to
rebel leaders and a viable living to followers
who have no other source of livelihood. Capturing this perspective, the leader of the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement, John Garang, said, “Under these circumstances the
marginal cost of rebellion in the South became very small, zero, or negative; that is, in
the South it pays to rebel.”19 In a low-income
environment the opportunity costs of engaging in violence may be small.
Slow-developing low-income economies
largely dependent on natural resources are 10
times more likely than others to experience
civil war.20 Reviewing these results for this
Report, Fearon again finds a strong relationship between income and the risk of civil
conflict.21 Of course, low per capita income is
also highly correlated with low institutional
capabilities, as evidenced by the Worldwide
Governance Indicators and International
Country Risk Guide indicators.22 More recent work by Keefer and by Fearon for this
Report indicates that the income links with
violence may be the joint product of other
underlying factors.23 Thus, countries have
political and institutional characteristics that
determine both their capability to address
violence and the level of governance necessary for economic growth.
High unemployment, particularly youth
unemployment, appears to increase the risk
of violence. The World Development Report
2007: Development and the Next Generation
points to how young people’s initial failures in
finding a job can lead to persistent joblessness,
a loss of interest in further schooling, delayed
family formation, mental distress, and “negative manifestations of citizenship.”24 Findings
from the Voices of the Poor Project affirm

Vulnerability to violence

this: presence of unemployed and frustrated
young men in post-conflict situations is often
linked to higher levels of violence, substance
abuse, and gang activities.25 In surveys for this
Report in areas affected by violence, unemployment and idleness was cited as the most
important factor motivating young people
to join rebel movements. The issue was also
raised as important in every WDR consultation: Liberia’s President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf
summarizes, “[Without] jobs for our very
young population, we run the risk of having
their vulnerabilities exposed and the risk of
them once again being recruited into conflict, undermining all the progress we have
made.”26 But econometric work has consistently failed to find any correlation between
unemployment and violence, perhaps because data are poor or because the link is indirect rather than direct (box 2.5).27
Exploitative employment is also a risk
factor in violence. The relationship between
unemployment and violence often involves
social identity and exclusion. Several qualitative studies on Latin America and African
gangs and rebel movement recruitment point
to links between employment, respect, and
identity (box 2.5). This mirrors a larger literature on unemployment and domestic violence, showing how power relations and perceptions of “dignity” can be more important
than simple pecuniary motives as drivers of
violence.28 This is consistent with employment being more than a purely financial
transaction. It is also a social interaction carrying aspects of personal status and expectations of how one should be treated.29 In other
words, the nature of work relationships on
offer matters a great deal. As with the causes
of rebel movements, unemployment and a
sense of low status also emerge as risk factors
for recruitment into gangs (box 2.6).
Research has found a strong relationship
between income inequality and criminal violence, measured by homicide rates.30 Many
scholars have investigated whether income
inequality and civil war are related and found
no statistically significant relationship.31
However, there is evidence that horizontal inequalities (between regional, ethnic, or reli-

B OX 2 . 5

Does unemployment cause violence? Arguments
for and against

The proposition that unemployment can lead to involvement in violence is often
traced to Becker, who applied an “economic calculus” to criminology, with the
aim of improving policies toward crime. In such an opportunity-cost argument,
scholars like Cincotta, Engelman, and Anastasion and Grossman consider unemployment a cause of violence and conﬂict. Urdal argues that the risk of violent
conﬂict can be correlated with a high population proportion of young adults
and poor economic performance.
More recently, simplistic cost-beneﬁt approaches have been questioned by
Berman and others on the motives of groups claiming ideological inspiration:
Most aid spending by governments seeking to rebuild social and political
order is based on an opportunity-cost theory of distracting potential
recruits. The logic is that gainfully employed young men are less likely to
participate in political violence, implying a positive correlation between
unemployment and violence in places with active insurgencies. We test
that prediction on insurgencies in Iraq and the Philippines, using survey
data on unemployment and two newly available measures of insurgency:
attacks against government and allied forces and violence that kills civilians. Contrary to the opportunity-cost theory, we ﬁnd a robust negative
correlation between unemployment and attacks against government and
allied forces and no signiﬁcant relationship between unemployment and
the rate of insurgent attacks that kill civilians.32
Other research suggests that unemployment and violence may be related
through respect, social justice, and social identity dynamics rather than pure
cost-beneﬁt motives. Contemporary case studies emphasize how employment,
identity, and perceptions of social justice are intertwined. Padilla’s work on
Puerto Rican drug gangs in Chicago stresses the insecure and demeaning nature
of legal work opportunities compared with gang membership—which oﬀered
not only income but social respect and a sense of belonging. Similar motives are
echoed by those joining gangs in Guatemala, who “did so because they were
searching for the support, trust, and cohesion—social capital—that they maintained their families did not provide, as well as because of the lack of opportunities in the local context.”33
Evidence on recruitment into the FARC (Revolutionary Armed Forces of
Colombia) suggests that many recruits, employed before joining, were motivated by status and the excitement of the rebel life in comparison with the
drudgery of agricultural wage labor. Gutierréz Sanín quotes a rancher kidnapped
by the FARC: “The guerrilleros say: we, work with a machete? Never! Then they
say: Peasants speak with us because of this. And they kiss their weapon! And
they say that women love arms [sic]: the police, the army, the guerrilla.” Ethnographic work on militias in rural Sierra Leone and insurgents in El Salvador34
suggests that oppressive work relations can be a key motive for rebellion.
Another understudied element of these dynamics is the time necessary for
such interventions to be eﬀective. A WDR study in southern China tests how
long it takes migrant workers to develop social networks, ﬁnding that broad
social networks are developed only after ﬁve years of secure employment.
Further research is needed to test the links between unemployment, idleness, the temporal eﬀects of unemployment, the diﬀering forms of employment,
and recruitment into violence.
Sources: Urdal 2004; Berman and others 2009; Padilla 1992; Moser 2009; Gutiérrez
Sanín 2008; Becker 1968; Cincotta, Engelman, and Anastasion 2003; Grossman 1991;
Wood 2003; Richards 1996; Chauveau and Richards 2008; Cramer 2010; Huang 2010.

79

80

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

BOX 2.6

Do similar economic factors create risks for political conflict and extreme levels of
violent organized crime?

The most reliable indicator to compare violence across countries is the homicide rate, which has risen markedly in Latin American and
Caribbean countries since the early 1990s—from 12.6 homicides per 100,000 inhabitants to almost 20 homicides in recent years.
Analysis of global data conﬁrms earlier work by Loayza, Fajnzylber, and Lederman on homicide rates in Latin America, revealing
that:
• Institutional capacity and accountability is associated with lower risks of civil war and homicide rates.
• Higher country GDP, like civil wars, is associated with lower homicide rates, even comparing periods within countries.
• Democratic collapses, as with civil wars, are associated with increasing homicides.
• Oil production, associated with civil war risk, does not predict higher homicide rates.
• Countries with higher income inequality tend to have more homicides, a pattern that holds when comparing countries in the same
region. These ﬁndings are the principal factor that distinguishes criminal violence from civil wars, which are not found to be correlated with income inequality, but exhibit some relation to horizontal inequalities across ethnicity or other identity groups.
In qualitative studies, unemployment and idleness also feature as risk factors that spur recruitment into both rebel movements
and gangs. Surveys showed remarkably similar perceptions about motives for participation in gangs and in rebel movements (see
ﬁgure). In both cases, unemployment and idleness were cited as the primary reasons for young people to join gangs or rebel movements, reinforcing the links between social inequality and violence.

Rebel movements and gangs attract people with similar motives
Surveys found that the main motivations young people cited for becoming rebels or gang members are very similar—
unemployment, idleness, respect, and self-protection, all well ahead of revenge, injustice, or belief in the cause.
50
46%
45
40

39.5%

% of respondents

35
30
25
20
15%

15

13%

13%
8%

10
5
0
Rebel participation
Unemployment/Idleness

Gang participation
Feel more secure/Powerful

Belief in the cause/Revenge/Injustice

Sources: Fearon 2010b; Bøås, Tiltnes, and Flatø 2010; Neumayer 2003; Loayza, Fajnzylber, and Lederman 2002a, 2002b; Messner,
Raﬀalovich, and Shrock 2002; WDR team calculations.
Notes: Figure shows aggregates of the most common responses for the questions, “What is the main reason why young people join
rebel groups?” and “What is the main reason why young people join gangs?” for surveys conducted in Colombia; the Democratic
Republic of Congo; Côte d’Ivoire; Gaza; Mali; Sierra Leone; and West Bank. Survey methodology described in Bøås, Tiltnes, and Flatø
2010.

gious identity groups) lead to political violence (discussed further in the section on
political stresses below). The structure of the
inequality and the manifestation of violence
may be linked, but the results are hardly conclusive; more research on this is needed. It is

also possible that demographic shifts create
stresses on societies that are not prepared for
change—rapid urbanization, as earlier in
Latin America and today in Asia and Africa,
is associated with weakened social cohesion
and increased risks of violence.35

Vulnerability to violence

Countries with significant natural resource wealth may face armed attempts to
capture the benefits. Because control of the
state or specific areas is needed to benefit
from revenues from the sale of oil, timber,
or minerals, countries with significant natural wealth are particularly vulnerable to
conflict.36 This is demonstrated by the prolonged struggles between rival militias in the
Democratic Republic of Congo, from the
civil war period of the 1990s37 to present-day
rebel “taxation” of artisanal mining of coltan, tin, and gold deposits in the eastern part
of the country. Subnational contests over resources are important in country cases, although cross-country data are not available.
Once again, the key is the cost-benefit calculus associated with engaging in trafficking
and the violence that can accompany it. In
addition, leaders of countries with significant natural resources may be reluctant to
invest in the institutions to mediate or suppress violence, since these same institutions
can challenge their regime and reduce their
share of the rents.38 For example, a strong
military in a country with weak civilian
oversight is associated with the capture of
natural resource rents by military leaders.39
Economic shocks can also arise from factors beyond the control of the state—and
food and energy price shocks can increase
the risk of conflict. Work on rainfall shocks
in Sub-Saharan Africa concludes that civil
conflict is more likely to occur following
years of poor rainfall. Using rainfall variation
as a proxy for income shocks in 41 African
countries between 1981 and 1999, Satyanath,
Miguel, and Sergenti found that a 5 percent
decline in economic growth increased the
likelihood of conflict by half in the following
year.40 A majority of fragile states are food
importers—and average household expenditure on food is higher in fragile developing
countries (57.5 percent) than in other developing countries (49.4 percent).41 Sharp food
price increases, in particular, have a long association with urban instability. But there is
less risk of violence where institutions protect exporters and consumers against these
economic shocks.42

Economic factors are important—but do
not tell the full story. Many developing countries face multiple economic challenges, with
low or stagnant growth, high exposure to
global commodity price trends, and rapid
population growth. Potent as these factors
are, explanations for conflict based purely on
economic motives are inadequate—to avoid
violence, societies must do more than just
create growth. The attention in recent years
to quantitative correlations between economic factors and conflict has led some to
argue that economics is all that counts. Not
only is this facile—it misrepresents the state
of the research. It is much more difficult to
test the importance of identity, ideology, injustice, and political motivations using statistical methods, but current research suggests
that these are very important in explaining
violence and conflict.43

Justice
Humans value justice and fairness, the most
obvious example being political inclusion of
all citizens. When fairness is absent, injustice
and exclusion can act as stresses. Justice and
fairness are difficult concepts to measure,
though psychological experiments show that
they can have value beyond pure material
self-interest (see box 2.7).
One aspect of injustice and unfairness is
pure political exclusion of particular groups
based on race, ethnicity, religion, or geographical location and origin. Political exclusion was clearly an important motive for
armed resistance in the anti-colonial wars
and the anti-apartheid struggle. Today, few
areas of the world have systems of political
representation so obviously inequitable. But
recent research by Cederman, Wimmer, and
Min and Goldstone and others suggests that
countries with high political exclusion or
ethnic exclusion are more likely to experience
violent upheaval.44
Economic and social inequality and perceived injustice matter. Security and economic stresses may be amplified by the way
people perceive their identity—and their
treatment by others may be based on that
identity. Data are incomplete on horizontal

81

82

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

BOX 2.7

People expect fairness and punish inequity

Using the Ultimatum Game, a two-player experimental psychology game conducted under laboratory conditions, economists have demonstrated that many
people from a wide variety of cultures are willing to punish others at a cost to
themselves in order to sanction unfair behavior. In this game, one bargainer
makes a proposal on how to divide a sum of money with another bargainer—
who has the opportunity to accept or reject the proposed division.
The ﬁrst bargainer is called the proposer, the second the responder. If the
responder accepts the proposed division, each bargainer earns the amount proposed; but if the responder rejects it, each bargainer earns nothing. If the only
consideration is material interest, responders could be expected to accept quite
a low percentage of the “pie” since this will still result in a net gain to them.
The Ultimatum Game has been run hundreds of times in diverse cultures
around the world and the results have been surprisingly consistent, which suggests widespread consensus on interpretations of fairness and equity. From
semisedentary Dolgan/Nganasan hunters, to wage laborers of Siberia, to sedentary Sanquianga ﬁshermen of the Colombian Paciﬁc coast, to Hadzan nomads in
Tanzania—and from sedentary laborers in rural Missouri to urban wage workers
in Accra—the oﬀer from the proposer consistently averages 26 to 48 percent,
while the responder is willing to punish if the oﬀer is less than 12 to 17 percent.45
The responders would rather have both players get nothing than accept a
small share while the proposer gets a much larger one. The results suggest that
many individuals react strongly to what they perceive to be unjust—and are
willing to forgo material beneﬁt to punish behavior they perceive as unfair.
Sources: Hoﬀ 2010; Henrich and others 2010.

inequalities (for example, inequalities between identity groups based on religion,
caste, ethnicity, or region).46 But analysis
across 55 countries for 1986–2003 reveals a
significant rise in the probability of conflict
in countries with severe horizontal inequalities, both economic and social.47 Côte d’Ivoire

B OX 2 .8

illustrates the connection, where decades of
socioeconomic inequalities persisted between
north and south. After President HouphouëtBoigny’s death in December 1993, a confluence of economic and political factors eventually led to civil war.48 The rebels’ Charte du
Nord clearly expressed the economic grievances of northerners as well as their resentment over insufficient state recognition of
the Muslim religion. To portray identity as
driven by economic considerations alone is
to ignore the consistency with which the
qualitative literature identifies such features
as humiliation, pride, and desire for affiliation as motivators for action.49
State oppression and human rights abuses
often accompany authoritarian approaches
to prevent violence fueled by injustice. Are
such tactics sustainable? Surprisingly little
quantitative research has been done on the
links between human rights abuses and political violence. A review of evidence suggests
a strong correlation between past human
rights abuses and current risks of conflict
(box 2.8). Additional quantitative work is
needed to determine the direction of causality and control for possibly omitted variables,
while further qualitative work would be
needed to understand the links between
abuses and risks of violence. It is not clear
whether human rights abuses affect the motives of those who engage in armed opposi-

Human rights abuses and future conflict risk

Are improvements in human rights correlated with lower risks of conﬂict? Countries with recent
human rights abuses are far more likely to experience conﬂict than countries with a strong history of respect for human rights. Each one-step deterioration on the Political Terror Scale—
which measures arbitrary detention for nonviolent political activity, torture, disappearances, and
extrajudicial killings—resulted in a more than twofold increase in the risk of civil war in the subsequent year.
Holding large numbers of political prisoners makes a renewal of civil war twice as likely,
while signiﬁcant numbers of extrajudicial killings make it three times more likely.50 This is best
summed up by Walter: “A reasonable interpretation of these results is that greater repression
and abuse by a government creates both grievances and signals that those governments are not
dependable negotiating partners; suggesting that less coercive and more accountable
approaches signiﬁcantly decrease the risk of civil conﬂict.”51
Sources: Fearon 2010a; Walter 2010.

83

Vulnerability to violence

FIGURE 2.1

What drives people to join ideological militant
movements?
Respondents in Mali and the West Bank cited revenge, injustice, and belief
in a cause as reasons for participating in ideologically based militant movements. These results contrast with the results for gang and rebel group participation (box 2.5), which showed unemployment and idleness as leading
reasons for participation.
50

46%

46%

45
40
35
% respondents

tion, whether there is a wider effect in spurring indirect popular support for armed
opposition movements, or whether oppressive state tactics can under certain circumstances cause disaffection among groups
within the military or political and economic
circles of power. Whatever the specific mechanisms at work, the results suggest that improvements in human rights often accompany a reduced risk of violence.52
The combination of political and socioeconomic exclusion, especially when perceived to be government policy, can be used
to support narratives of social injustice. In
Côte d’Ivoire an explosive mixture of socioeconomic and political inequalities appears
to have contributed to the outbreak of civil
war.53 In Sri Lanka, some historians have argued that political and social exclusion of the
Tamil minority through the 1956 Official
Languages Act (which declared Sinhalese the
only official language of Sri Lanka) and the
1972 constitution (which gave Buddhism
“foremost status” in the country) contributed
to early Tamil demands for greater autonomy
and to later support for Tamil militancy.54
Perceived injustice in access to political power
and economic opportunities between Protestants and Catholics played a role in the
Northern Ireland secessionist conflict.55 Actual or perceived exclusion can be a powerful
motivator of violence, creating pools of hostility for rebel leaders to draw on.56 For extreme levels of violent crime, inequality between classes—which may also carry aspects
of exclusion and perceived injustice—appears to matter more that inequality between
ethnic, geographical, or religious groups. 57
Injustice and inequity are often cited as
motivations for terrorism. Invasion, occupation, political repression, and the curtailment
of human rights and civil liberties form much
of the rationale that terrorist organizations
give for their attacks. Much of the empirical
literature validates the relevance of these
factors.58 Some scholars posit a relationship
between poverty and terrorism,59 but many
others find no direct evidence that poverty
(or a lack of education) leads to terrorism.60

30
25
21%

19%

20
16%
15
10
5
1%
0
Mali

West Bank

Unemployment/Idleness
Feel more secure/Powerful
Belief in the cause/Revenge/Injustice

Source: Bøås, Tiltnes, and Flatø 2010.
Notes: Figure shows percentage of responses for the question, “What drives
people to join ideological movements?” for surveys conducted in Mali and West
Bank. Survey methodology described in Bøås, Tiltnes, and Flatø 2010.

On the contrary, some research finds that perpetrators of terrorist attacks are more likely to
be well-off, with advanced education.61
While the motives for individuals to join
ideology-based groups may be linked to beliefs in larger causes, the ability of these
groups to garner local support also depends
on relating these larger narratives to local
claims of injustice.62 The Taliban gained support in Pakistan’s Swat valley in part by building on a variety of local grievances, including
weaknesses in local law enforcement and justice institutions.63 Leaders of militant ideological groups often espouse narratives of injustice or exclusion, and this appears to have
popular resonance. Mali and the West Bank
cited “belief in the cause and injustice” as far
more important for recruitment into militant
religious groups than for recruitment into
gangs or rebel movements (figure 2.1).

84

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

Thus, stresses related to security, economics, and politics can increase the risk of
violence, and they tend to combine and precipitate actual violence. But the actual combinations of stresses and the pathways to violent conflict are highly specific to country
circumstances. As discussed earlier, recent research, while in its infancy, points to the importance of institutions in mediating disputes
and reducing violence. Where societies fail to
reform institutions and insulate themselves
from stresses associated with violence, they
risk repeated cycles of violence.

The vicious cycle of weak
institutional legitimacy and
violence
Much good work has been done on conceptualizing the relationship between institutions and violence, both historically (North,
Wallis, and Weingast and many others); in
contemporary analysis of the coercive capacities of the state (Fearon and Laitin); and in
relation to processes of democratization
(Goldstone and others).64 The policy world
has also focused on the relationship between
state-building and peacebuilding, including
work by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) International Network on Conflict and Fragility, as well as other bilateral, regional, and
multilateral institutions. New research for
this Report from Fearon, Walter, and Hoeffler, von Billerbeck, and Ijaz explores how the
characteristics of state-society institutions
and governance outcomes are associated with
risk of violence (box 2.9).65 Meanwhile, recent research supports the finding that states
with weak institutions run the greatest risk of
the onset and recurrence of civil war, and
of extreme levels of criminal violence.66 These
studies should be further expanded and
tested, but, taken together, they provide compelling early evidence that institutions are
indeed critical for avoiding violence.
The capacity and accountability of institutions both matter. The accountability of
institutions—expressed, for example, in the

results described above on human rights,
corruption, and the presence of a written
constitution—appear to matter as much as
their capacity. Both capacity and accountability are applicable to security, political,
and economic systems: political scientists
typically use the term “accountability” to refer to processes or political representation,
for example, while economists more often
use the term to refer to responsible use of
public funds and responsiveness to citizen
needs and complaints. For this Report, “legitimacy” refers to the responsiveness of institutions and is used as shorthand for capacity, inclusion, and accountability. Several
sources of legitimacy have been identified in
the state-building literature.67 The most important are as follows:
• Political legitimacy (accountability) and
inclusion, or the use of credible political
processes to make decisions that reflect
shared values and preferences, provide the
voice for all citizens equally and account
for these decisions. This includes providing
information to citizens and mechanisms
for legal recourse to resolve disputes and
complaints, including complaints against
the state. This can also be considered to include international legitimacy: the state’s
exercise of responsible sovereignty as laid
out under international law.
• Performance legitimacy (capacity),
earned by the effective discharge by the
state of its agreed duties, particularly the
provision of security, economic oversight
and services, and justice.
Recent events demonstrate how different
aspects of institutional legitimacy can relate
to conflict and violence. The Middle East and
North African countries generally possess relatively strong institutional capacity, but their
systems have historically scored low on indicators of accountability. In some countries,
such as Libya, institutions have remained more
personalized than in neighboring states such
as Egypt and Tunisia, and perceived tensions
between regional, ethnic, or tribal groups are

Vulnerability to violence

B OX 2.9

Quantitative research on institutions and violence risk

For this Report, Fearon and Walter tested whether the rule of law, government eﬀectiveness,
low corruption, and strong protection of human rights, as measured by the Worldwide Governance Indicators (WGI), correlate with a lower risk of onset and recurrence of civil conﬂict. This
test involved a more detailed statistical examination of these governance indicators than
undertaken before.
Because countries with high incomes generally have stronger governance indicators, it has
been diﬃcult for previous researchers to distinguish the eﬀect of institutional weakness from
the eﬀect of low income. Fearon approached this problem by controlling the sample for
national incomes, and then identifying “surprisingly good” governance—when a country has
higher governance ratings than other countries at the same per capita income. The attempt to
identify the impact of governance on the risk of violence then comes from seeing whether surprisingly good or bad governance in one period is associated with the onset or recurrence of
conﬂict later.
Fearon ﬁnds that a country with “surprisingly good” governance indicators has a 30–45 percent lower risk of civil war in the next 5–10 years than its peers with more modestly rated governance. Once institutions are added to the analysis, they become a more important factor
than income as a correlate of civil war. Similarly, he ﬁnds that institutions are highly related to
the risk of extreme levels of criminal violence, proxied by homicides, with countries that had
measures of better governance in 1996–98 experiencing lower homicide rates in 2000–05,
even when controlling for income.
Walter ﬁnds a similar governance impact on the risk of recurring civil war. A formal constitution—a simple measure of the rule of law and the expression of societal values through formal
institutions—reduces the odds of renewed conﬂict by 64 percent. Measures of accountability
are as important as measures of capacity in this calculation: as described earlier, past human
rights abuses have a particularly strong impact on the risk of future conﬂict, and measures of
rule of law and corruption are as important as, or more important than, those of bureaucratic
eﬃciency.
Sources: Fearon 2010a, 2010b; Walter 2010.

higher. This may help explain why initial demands for change in Egypt and Tunisia were
managed largely peacefully, whereas protests
in Libya escalated into civil conflict.
Fragile institutions and poor governance
help explain why similar external shocks can
produce violence in one country but not in
another. Consider external economic stress
and the long association of sharp food price
increases with urban instability. In mapping
food protests during the 2006–08 period of
price spikes against government effectiveness
data, the occurrence of violence was much
higher in developing countries with less capable governance (figure 2.2).
The essential links between institutional
weakness, governance, and violence are captured in the concept of “fragility” (box 2.10).
Weak capacity, accountability, and legitimacy of institutions are the basis of many

definitions of state fragility. The World Bank,
for example, uses indicators of institutional
strength to identify fragile situations. And
the last decade has seen a sharper international focus on the developmental and security implications of “fragile situations,” and
a focus on the links between state-building
and peacebuilding.68

Why does the lack of legitimate
institutions open the risk of
recurring violence?
All societies face stresses, but only some succumb to repeated violence. Unemployment,
income shocks, rising inequalities between
social groups, external security threats, and
international organized crime—all of these
have plausible causal relationships with violence. The analytical problem in identifying

85

86

Food price protests and associated violence are
concentrated in fragile states
Developing countries with low government eﬀectiveness experienced more
food price protests during the food crisis (2007–08) than countries with high
government eﬀectiveness. More than half of those protests turned violent.
In states in the bottom half of the governance spectrum, the incidence of
violent protests was three times higher than in th e top half.
18
15
Number of countries

F I G U R E 2.2

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

12

9

9

2
3

9

12
6
3

8

8

10

0
0–25th
25–50th
50–75th
75–100th
Increasing government eﬀectiveness
(percentile ranking)
Violent

Nonviolent

Sources: Compiled by Schneider, Buehn, and Montenegro 2010; food protest data
are from news reports; government eﬀectiveness data are from Kaufmann, Kraay,
and Mastruzzi 2010a.
Notes: Food protests are deﬁned as strikes, protests, or riots on food- or agriculturerelated issues in 2007 and 2008. A violent food protest is deﬁned as one that
involves the use of physical force, results in casualties, or both.

the causes of violence is that many countries
face these stresses, but not all of them actually experience outright violence, while others contain it to small geographical areas or
short periods of time. As described earlier,
a common, underexplored condition across
countries facing violence, particularly repeated violence, is their weak institutions and
governance.
The causal relationship between weak institutional legitimacy and violence may be
compared to the relationship between the
human body’s immune system and disease.
Weak institutions make a country vulnerable
to violence, just as a weak immune system
makes a body vulnerable to disease. To restore a body to health means not only treating the disease but also restoring the body’s
ability to fight off disease. Similarly with
weak institutional legitimacy and governance. The cause of each outbreak of violence

may vary, but the underlying reason for societies’ inability to resist stresses is that their
institutions are too weak to mediate them
peacefully. Durable solutions to violence,
therefore, require more than addressing each
individual stress—they require action to address the underlying weaknesses in institutional legitimacy.
Solutions that do not involve transforming institutions may postpone rather than
solve problems. Throughout history, agreements between powerful leaders have been
the most common strategy to prevent largescale violence—“I’ll prevent my armed men
from attacking your territory if you prevent
yours from attacking mine, so that we can all
profit from trade or selling natural resources.”
As North, Wallis, and Weingast suggest, if
these arrangements create sufficient incentives for powerful leaders and organizations,
they can contain violence.69
Such arrangements, however, lead to a political system that manipulates the economy,
so that economic rents are an essential component of the stability. Unfortunately, such
arrangements are personal and rarely lead to
the development of impersonal institutions
that can act irrespective of whether a particular leader is still in power, or to wider governance improvements that protect citizens’
interests. These “elite pacts” can establish
limits on violence, but this type of agreement
is subject to constant renegotiation as circumstances change, and the threat of violence remains.
Does violence recur because, without impersonal institutions, elite pacts have difficulty in adapting to change? This Report’s
work on institutional correlations is new, and
more research is needed on why countries
with weak formal institutions experience repeated bouts of violence. One hypothesis is
that these systems have difficulty in adapting
to change—because agreements are personal
and need to be renegotiated when leaders die
or lose power, or when new internal and external pressures force a change in the division
of economic or political benefits. A further
consideration is that these systems may lead

Vulnerability to violence

B OX 2.10

Fragility, weak institutions, governance, and violence

To capture state fragility, the World Bank and other multilateral development banks have used
measures of institutional weakness, such as their Country Policy and Institutional Assessment
(CPIA) frameworks. The CPIA indicators attempt to measure, however imperfectly, the quality
and inﬂuence of key state and society institutions and the policies they implement. Lowincome countries with scores below a composite 3.2 in the CPIA are coded as fragile. Nothing
in the indicators themselves directly measures the levels of political or criminal violence. The
ﬁgure illustrates that countries lacking the institutional capacity and accountability to absorb
systemic stress are more likely to experience violence—and less able to extract themselves
from it or to contain its eﬀects.
Of 17 countries that remained fragile between 1990 and 2008, 14 experienced major civil
war violence in the same period and 2 experienced minor civil wars, as shown in the ﬁgure.70
In other words, nearly every country with prolonged periods of weak institutional capacity
experienced organized political violence. Of course, this violence is in turn likely to compromise development and further erode institutional capacity (similarly to the “conﬂict trap”
identiﬁed by Collier and others (2003)). Even though the CPIA indicators do not include direct
measurement of political and security institutions and policies, there is a striking correlation
between “fragility” as deﬁned in the CPIA scores, and the incidence of major episodes of organized violence. By measuring institutional fragility, the CPIA is in eﬀect measuring the presence
or risk of organized violence. 71
Source: Mata and Ziaja 2009.

Countries that remained fragile were very likely to experience civil war
Off 17 countries that were fragile five or more years
between 1977 and 1989 and remained fragile until 2009
1 remained fragile with no conflict
2 remained fragile and experienced
minor civil war (battle deaths
exceeded 25 per annum)

14 remained fragile and experienced
major civil war (battle deaths
exceeded 1,000 per annum)

Source: WDR team calculations.
Note: Throughout this report, major civil war includes conﬂicts with more than 1,000 battle deaths per
annum and minor civil war includes conﬂicts with more than 25 battle deaths per annum. A fragile
country has a CPIA of less than 3.2.
*Correlation statistically signiﬁcant at p < 0.01.

to the buildup of grievances over time—possibly because corruption and coercion attract
external condemnation and domestic protests. These factors are surely becoming more
important as the global pace of change quick-

ens, the vulnerability to external shocks increases, and the tolerance of corruption and
coercion diminishes.
Institutional economics offers a wide body
of theory and evidence on how institutions

87

88

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

(formal and informal rules) facilitate and
constrain the behavior of economic and political actors (individuals, groups, and firms).72
In relation to violence, this Report offers three
key hypotheses for institutions to matter in
shaping the incentives for violence:
• Institutional capacity. Strong policing
and defense capacities give states the power
to overcome armed threats from rebel or
organized criminal groups. If an individual is contemplating political or criminal
violence, the knowledge that the country’s
security forces have weak intelligence and
coercive capacity will make that person
more likely to pursue violent options.
Conversely, if the country’s formal institutions do not deliver local justice, education, or employment, an individual has a
greater incentive to turn toward nonstate
groups that can deliver, even if the groups
are violent. Social and family cohesion can
also be a critical national capacity: if an
individual feels no sense of national pride,
or if the family and community place no
value on abiding by national laws, there is
less to constrain that person from taking
up arms against the state or engaging in
criminal activities. But increasing the capacity of the state is fraught with risks:
particularly when some leaders perceive
a threat to their own interests from wellorganized security forces and economic
institutions, and where citizens are fragmented and unorganized, unable to insist
that economic, justice, and security services be provided equitably to all citizens.
• Inclusion. Government capacity alone is
not enough, however: many of the stresses
described in this chapter relate to the failure of institutions to make all ethnic, religious, or social groups feel equally served
by the actions of the state. If the geographic, ethnic, or religious community
an individual belongs to is excluded from
political or economic opportunities (for
example, from taking part in political decision making, civil service appointments,
education, health care, social protection,

access to infrastructure, or business opportunities), that person will have less to
lose by resorting to rebellion or crime. Accountable and inclusive political, social,
and economic institutions can mediate
contests between different classes or ethnic, religious, or regional groups peacefully—ensuring that each party feels
adequately represented in decision making, that demands are heard, and that
rights are protected. But inclusion is less
likely for groups that are fragmented and
unorganized—indeed, their very fragmentation could explain the ease with
which the political system abuses them.
• Active abuse and institutional accountability. If a person or a family member is
tortured or arbitrarily imprisoned or
preyed upon by corrupt officials, that person may have little to lose by risking injury or further imprisonment by taking
up a life of crime or rebellion. Accountable security forces and government agencies avoid the human rights abuses and
corruption that can fuel grievances and
create incentives for violent opposition.
Societies that rely on elite pacts, coercion,
and patronage to control violence risk repeating a vicious cycle. Where agreements
among elites to end fighting do not result in
a transformation in state-society institutions
and better governance outcomes, they remain vulnerable to the same stresses that
precipitated fighting in the first place. In
these circumstances, any stresses that shift
the balance of power—such as the death of a
leader, external security threats, or economic
and demographic pressures—risk further
violence. At some point this violence will be
ended through another elite pact, but without broader and deeper institutional transformation, the cycle will repeat (figure 2.3).
The vicious cycle can become more difficult
to escape over time, as each successive bout
of violence further weakens institutions and
destroys social capital. In countries where
children have been brutalized as victims or
witnesses of violence, or, worse yet, as perpe-

Vulnerability to violence

F I G U R E 2.3

The vicious cycle of violence, elite pacts, weak institutions—and
vulnerability to repeated violence
Weak
institutions
not transforming

New
pact

New
stresses

VIOLENCE and
FRAGILITY
Source: WDR team.

trators by being coerced to be child combatants, the lasting trauma and lost human and
social capital become an impediment to future social progress.73
The challenge for these societies is escaping this vicious cycle of repeated violence.

Historically, large-scale episodes of violence
have been a feature of all human societies.
This cycle is doomed to repeat until societies
find collective institutions to mediate and
control violence. Escaping this vicious cycle
is the focus of the rest of this Report.

89

90

FEATURE 2

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

Nepal: Stresses, institutions, violence, and legitimacy

C

hapter 2 argued that organized violence is likely to occur
when internal and external stresses are not countered by
capable, legitimate institutions. Despite an evolution in the
nature of violence and the intensity and variety of stresses
TA B L E 1

faced, the weaknesses and exclusion in Nepal’s institutions
leave the country continually vulnerable to renewed risk of
conflict, as shown in table 1.

Interlinked stresses in Nepal

Stresses

Internal

External

•
•
•
•

Mistrust of security forces
Culture of impunity
Legacy of violence and trauma
Lack of legitimate security presence and public
security crisis

•
•

Cross-border criminality in the Tarai
region
Refugees

Economic

•
•
•

Low incomes, joblessness
Electricity, food, and fuel shortages
Corruption and extortion

•
•
•

Floods and other natural disasters
Price shocks
Illegal trade in natural resources

Political

•
•

Ethnic, gender, caste-based, regional exclusion
Discrimination in access to opportunity and in
representation in institutions
Human rights abuses

•

Regional or international
involvement in internal aﬀairs

Security

•

Sources: Thapa 2010; Sharma 2008; Jha 2010.

Political stresses and the continuation
of elite politics
Feudalism is a system of governance designed to restrict power
and wealth to a very small minority. Conflict in Nepal is rooted
in struggles to depart from the country’s feudal past and move
to a more inclusive and open society. Nepal is home to more
than 100 ethnic groups, speaking 92 languages, and a caste system dictating group-based opportunity and achievement. The
groups most marginalized constitute the majority of Nepal’s
population—nearly 70 percent.74
Nepal’s recent history can be described as a protracted
struggle between the country’s elites and the groups, classes,
and ethnicities that believe they have been excluded from the
national patrimony and institutions. The modern era in Nepal
began in 1950, with the overthrow of the autocratic Rana regime by a coalition of political parties supported by newly independent India. This action restored the authority of the Nepalese monarchy within a constitutional framework, and ushered
in a period of democratic politics. The distribution of power
between Parliament and the Palace remained contested, however, and in 1960, King Mahendra dismissed the parliament,
assumed full executive powers, and instituted the “party-less”
Panchayat system. Nepali nationalism was modeled after the

ruling elite—one religion (Hinduism), one language (Nepali),
and the authoritarian Panchayat system kept dissent in check.
This political settlement withstood pressures for democratization until 1990. In that year, the first Jana Andolan (People’s
Movement), led by a coalition of leftist and democratic parties
and endorsed by the international community, forced King Birendra to reinstitute open national elections and to accept a
severe curtailment of royal power. A series of governments led
by the Congress Party and coalitions of leftist parties followed,
all committed to modernization, equitable economic growth,
and broader social justice. Yet the political parties that came to
power in the wake of this movement failed to sustain public
confidence—instead relying on a small group of political party
elites to draft the new constitution and retain the preeminence
of the Hindu religion and an army under the continued control of the king (see table 2).
As the high expectations for meaningful change turned
to disenchantment, the Communist Party of Nepal Maoist75
launched its People’s War in February 1996 to bring about the
country’s “social and economic transformation.” The Maoists
drew their supporters from marginalized groups in the countryside, long left out of Nepal’s political structures and lacking
socioeconomic opportunity. In 2006, the Maoist movement
joined with political parties to overthrow the king and create a

91

Vulnerability to violence

TA B L E 2

Officer-level entry into Nepal government
service by caste/ethnic group (percentages)

Caste/ethnicity

1984–85

1988–89

1992–93

1996–97

69.3

69.9

80.5

83.1

18.6

18.8

10.7

9.4

Bahun-Chhetri
Newar
Non-Newar Janajati

a

3.0

1.6

2.5

1.7

Madhesi

8.5

9.0

5.3

5.5

Muslim

0.6

0.2

0.6

0.2

0

0.5

0.4

0.1

Dalit

Source: Thapa 2010.
a. Pre-Hindu conquest ethnic groupings.

“New Nepal.” With the signing of the Comprehensive Peace
Agreement in November 2006, the Maoists and the political
parties committed themselves to a democratic transition and
the reform of Nepal’s traditional structures. Yet, in the years
since the signing, the elected Constituent Assembly made little
progress, and minority groups became increasingly frustrated
with the continuation of Kathmandu’s elite-driven politics.
In 2007, Madhesi groups across the southern Tarai belt of
Nepal began calling for regional autonomy through a federal
Nepal, a notion that has since then gained traction. But questions remain about the impact of ethnic federalism on national
unity, minority protection, and administrative functioning.

Security stresses and weaknesses in security
and justice institutions
The Maoist movement raised a new consciousness in Nepal.
But the movement’s tactics—coercion, intimidation, extortion—left Nepali society deeply bruised. Across the countryside, Maoists set up parallel security and judicial structures,
such as people’s courts and the People’s Liberation Army. The
failure to address the crimes and human rights abuses by both
sides during Nepal’s 10-year civil war (1996–2006) has resulted
in citizen distrust of the police, armed police, and army by significant groups in society, compounded by a lack of representation of marginalized groups in leadership positions in the
security forces. Nepal’s political establishment has also had to
manage its external relations very delicately, given its strategic
location. The multitude of actors, competing interests, and demands, as well as the long, porous borders between Nepal and
its neighbors, add to the complexity.
Against this backdrop, insecurity in Nepal has evolved from
a Maoist insurgency to opportunistic violence and criminality.
This sense of lawlessness is most clearly manifest in the southern Tarai region, where the government has identified more
than 100 violent groups and criminal gangs (the map shows
how the epicenter of violence shifted from the middle hills
during the Maoist insurgency to criminality in the southern
Tarai).

M A P A The shifting epicenter of political violence in Nepal

a. Violent events, 1996–99

b. Violent events, 2006–07
Percentage of the
population living
below poverty line

Percentage of the
population living
below poverty line:

CHINA

0–10%

Dandeldhura
Jumla

20–50%
Baglung

> 50%

Pokhara

10–20%
20–50%

Dhangarhi
Sallyan

Baglung

> 50%

Pokhara

Nepalganj

Nepalganj
Bhairawa

0–10%

Jumla

10–20%

Dhangarhi
Sallyan

CHINA
Dandeldhura

Bhimphedi

KATHMANDU
Bhairawa

Bhimphedi

KATHMANDU
Ramechhap

Ramechhap

Ilam

Ilam

ACLED Data, 1996–1999

INDIA

Rajbiraj

Biratnagar

IBRD 38417 March 2011

Source: Raleigh and others 2010.
Note: ACLED = Armed Conﬂict Location and Event Database.

ACLED Data, 2006–2007

INDIA

Rajbiraj

Biratnagar

IBRD 38418 March 2011

92

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

FEATURE 2

Nepal: Stresses, institutions, violence, and legitimacy (continued)

Economic hardship and exclusion
Nepal remains the poorest country in South Asia, with the
exception of Afghanistan. In the mid-1990s, after decades of
“development,” 42 percent of Nepal’s population still lived
below the internationally established absolute poverty line.
But this figure declined to 31 percent by 2003–04. The main
driver: remittances from young men working in the Gulf,
India, and Malaysia, which account for about a half of Nepal’s strong recent GNI growth (5.3 percent in fiscal year
2008 and 4.7 percent in fiscal year 2009). Ironically, this increase was spurred in part by flight from the violence of the
civil war.
More recently, political insecurity and extortion have
caused disinvestment in the Tarai and investor hesitancy else-

TA B L E 3

where. Kathmandu, with an influx of rural migrants and rising
energy demands, also has frequent rolling blackouts, disrupting economic activity. In 2008, the government had to declare
a nationwide power crisis, with blackouts lasting up to 16
hours a day.76

Continuing vulnerability to violence
Despite some progress in institutional development and
peacebuilding, Nepal remains vulnerable to different manifestations of violence and fragility. Table 1.1 in chapter 1
showed how multiple forms of violence co-exist in many
fragile states. Reproducing it for Nepal reveals the following
(table 3).

Nepal’s multiple forms of violence, 1960–present

Localized or subnational
intergroup violence
“Repressed” intergroup
conﬂicts over land, access to
political power
Caste and ethnic exclusion
underpinning People’s War
(civil war) of 1996–2006
Regionalism and Tarai
Andolan of 2007

“Conventional” political
violence (contests for state
power or for autonomy or
independence)
Clandestine opposition to the
Panchayat regime; reactive
imprisonment, denial of
human and political rights
Jana Andolan I 1990

Localized criminal or
gang-related violence
Gang-based extortion,
theft, smuggling in
Tarai, major increase in
levels of violence after
2006

People’s War of 1996–2006

Transnational crime
or traﬃcking with
accompanying violence

Local conﬂicts with
transnational ideological
connections

Human traﬃcking
(prostitution) from the 1960s

Revolutionary left crossfertilization with ”Maoists”
from the 1960s

Heroin transshipment from
the 1960s
Illegal trade in timber, opium
cultivation post-2006

Jana Andolan II 2006
Party-related extortion,
intimidation post-2006
(activities of the Young
Communist League)

Source: Compiled by the WDR team.

Exiting the vicious cycle
Following the Comprehensive Peace Agreement, a broad-based
constitutional assembly was created, which has been trying to
create a new settlement that will divide political and economic
power more equitably between Nepal’s many ethnic and caste
groups. This process represents a major attempt to broaden the
nature of Nepal’s polity and move it beyond the high-caste
Sources: Thapa 2010; Sharma 2008; Jha 2010.

elite competition that has dominated the country’s history.
While there has been undeniable progress from a series of
more-or-less exclusive elite pacts toward a more permeable
and inclusive approach to statehood, curtailing today’s lawlessness and preventing further episodes of political violence requires the creation of broader based coalitions, transformation
of national institutions, and a process that delivers improved
political, security, and economic outcomes to all citizens.

Vulnerability to violence

Notes
1. Ballentine and Nitzschke 2006; Murshed and Tadjoeddin 2007.
2. In addition, for example, there are structural factors that increase conflict risk, which include features
of the physical terrain that make rebellion easier. These features do not cause war in the common
sense of that word, but simply make it more possible. Mountainous terrain has been shown to increase risks by increasing the feasibility of rebellion. See Buhaug and Gleditsch 2008; Gleditsch and
Ward 2000; Salehyan and Gleditsch 2006. See also Murdoch and Sandler 2004. On terrain and neighborhood effects, see Fearon 2010a; Fearon and Laitin 2003; Goldstone and others 2010. On the effects
of neighborhood on civil wars, see Hegre and Sambanis 2006; Gleditsch 2007.
3. See Dahlberg and Krug 2002.
4. See Strassler 1996; Herz 1950; Jervis 1978.
5. Posen 1993; Snyder and Jervis 1999; Walter 1999; de Figueiredo and Weingast 1999.
6. Stedman 1996; Jones 1999; Posen 1993.
7. Brown 1996; Stedman 1996; Fearon and Laitin 2003; Horowitz 2000. On the shifting nature of national identity, see Laitin 1998.
8. Kumar and Skaperdas 2009.
9. Much of this response has taken the form of critical discussion; see, for example, Nathan 2005. A
particularly useful “study of studies” is Sambanis 2004, which finds that GDP per capita and political
instability are the only variables that consistently predict civil war onset. Researchers looking at natural resources have found mixed results—oil being most consistently associated with civil war outbreak. Recent work by Satyanath, Miguel, and Sergenti 2004 tied rainfall and agricultural shocks to
the onset of civil war, while Besley and Persson 2009 explore the effect of international price shocks
on the onset of conflict. Arnson and Zartman 2005 cover much of the core arguments in the greed
versus grievance debate.
10. On horizontal inequality, see Stewart 2005; Østby 2008; and Stewart 2010. On polarization, see Esteban and Ray 2008; Montalvo and Reynal-Querol 2005.
11. Thinking on this topic can be traced back to Gellner 1983; recent responses to the debate include Toft
2003; Laitin 2007.
12. Brückner and Ciccone 2010 are also noteworthy in highlighting that institutions help societies to
weather natural resource price shocks to avoid violence.
13. Clark and Kaufman 2011; IRIN 2010; Gettleman 2009.
14. Rubin 2002; Straus 2010.
15. See, for example, Menkhaus 2007; Lockhart and Glencorse 2010.
16. Buhaug and Gleditsch 2008; Gleditsch and Ward 2000; Salehyan and Gleditsch 2006. See also Murdoch and Sandler 2004; Fearon 2010a; Hegre and Sambanis 2006; Gleditsch 2007.
17. The presence of weak neighbors, rival neighbors, and refugee diasporas can play a crucial role in the
emergence of transnational rebel (TNR) organizations, bargaining failure, and civil conflict; see Salehyan 2007.
18. See Becker 1968.
19. See Collier and Sambanis 2005, 193. Also see Garang 1987.
20. See Collier and others 2003.
21. Fearon 2010a.
22. Fearon 2010a.
23. Keefer 2008; Fearon 2010a.
24. World Bank 2006f, 10.
25. Narayan and Petesch 2010.
26. Sirleaf 2007a, 4.
27. Labor market data in developing countries are irregular and unreliable. For example, very few SubSaharan African countries have carried out labor force surveys. Population censuses (an important
source for claims about labor force participation and unemployment rates) are commonly out of
date, and often unreliable even when recent. Further, wage employment in agriculture in poor countries is “invisible” in most conventional databases. See Cramer 2010.
28. Macmillan and Gartner 1999; Panda and Agarwal 2005; Jeyaseelan and others 2007; Krishnan and
others 2010; Silberschmidt 1999, 2001; see Cramer 2010.
29. This is consistent with Relative Deprivation theory; see also Solow 1990; Argandoña 2001.
30. See Loayza, Fajnzylber, and Lederman 2002a, 2002b; Messner, Raffalovich, and Shrock 2002.
31. Fearon and Laitin 2003; Collier and Hoeffler 2002, 2004; Anyanwu 2004.

93

94

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.

40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.

47.

48.
49.
50.

51.
52.

53.
54.
55.
56.

57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.

64.

Berman and others 2009, 1.
Moser 2009, 240.
Gutiérrez-Sanín 2008, 22.
World Bank 2010m; Willmann 2010.
Collier and Hoeffler 1998, 2002; Anyanwu 2004; Fearon and Laitin 2003; de Soysa 2002; Bannon and
Collier 2003; McNeish 2010.
Ross 2003.
See Keefer, forthcoming.
Fearon 2005 argues that oil predicts civil war risk not because of its role as a source of start-up
finance for rebels but, instead, because producers demonstrate relatively low state capabilities given
the level of per capita income.
Satyanath, Miguel, and Sergenti 2004.
Brinkman and Hendrix 2010.
See Besley and Persson 2010.
Furthermore, there is a complex relationship between motivations for and incidence of
violence, as noted in Fearon and Laitin 2003.
Cederman, Wimmer, and Min 2010; Goldstone and others 2010.
These results are from the second comparison study collected by Henrich and others 2010.
The difficulty of studying this phenomenon is compounded by the fact that our understanding of
and data sets on identity are weak; as Hegre and Sambanis have shown, slight changes in how different features of ethnicity—language groupings, affiliation measures, and so on—are operationalized
in studies have major effects on findings about causality and the direction of causality (Hegre and
Sambanis 2006). On how identity affiliations form, see Fearon 2006; Berman and Iannaccone 2006.
See Østby 2008 who defines groups alternatively by ethnicity, religion, and region, and finds a significant relation between horizontal inequalities (HIs) and the onset of violent conflict for each
definition. Economic HIs are measured by average household assets and social HIs by average years
of education. The effect of HIs is quite high: the probability of conflict increases threefold when
comparing the expected conflict onset when all variables have average values, compared to a situation where the extent of horizontal inequality of assets among ethnic groups is at the 95th percentile.
In the case of inter-regional HIs, the probability of conflict increases 2.5 times as HIs rise from the
mean value to the 95th percentile value. See also Stewart 2010.
Stewart 2010.
Gurr 1968; Herbst 2000; Stewart 2010; Strom and MacDonald 2007.
The data on political prisoners and extra-judicial killings were obtained from the Cignarelli and
Richards Human Rights data set (Cingranelli and Richards 2010). Each indicator is coded from 0 to
2, with 0 denoting large/significant degrees of human rights abuses and 2 denoting no abuses.
Walter 2010, 21.
See Gurr 1968; Herbst 2000; Stewart 2010; Strom and MacDonald 2007; Brown 1996; Stedman 1996.
On recent quantitative literature on this topic, see Bhavnani and Miodownik 2009. See also Abbink
and Herrmann 2009; Kalyvas 2006; Sambanis 2001.
Langer 2005; Stewart 2010.
De Silva 2005.
Barron and others 2010.
Qualitative and case study literature as well as WDR input from national officials and leaders consistently highlight political injustice, social exclusion, and inequity between social groups as key correlates of conflict. Among the many qualitative and case-based studies, see, for example, Heraclides
1990; Murshed and Gates 2006; Salehyan and Gleditsch 2006. On measurement difficulties, see Laitin
2000; Cramer 2002; Posner 2004.
See Loayza, Fajnzylber, and Lederman 2002a, 2002b; Messner, Raffalovich, and Shrock 2002.
Pape 2003; Krueger and Laitin 2008; Abadie 2006.
Stern 2003.
Atran 2003; Berrebi 2007.
Krueger and Maleckova 2003; Hassan 2001; Kimhi and Even 2004.
Smith 2004; Wright-Neville 2004.
World Bank and ADB 2010; also WDR team consultations with government officials and representatives from donor community, multilateral organizations, and civil society in Pakistan, 2010. See also
Abbas 2008, 2010.
North, Wallis, and Weingast 2009; Fearon and Laitin 2003; Goldstone and others 2010.

Vulnerability to violence

65. See Fearon 2010a; Walter 2010; Hoeffler, von Billerbeck, and Ijaz 2010. A range of indicators can be
used to measure governance and institutional capacity. The Users’ Guide on Measuring Fragility provides an excellent contemporary stocktaking of the literature and concepts (Mata and Ziaja 2009).
The World Bank Country Policy and Institutional Assessment (CPIA) scores are prepared internally
and are publicly available for International Development Association (IDA) countries for the years
2005 to present. The World Bank has recently undertaken an annual harmonizing exercise to align
the definitions of fragility with regional development banks (the Asian Development Bank and the
African Development Bank). Other well-known measures of governance and quality of institutions
include the Worldwide Governance Indicators measures of government and the International Country Risk Guide (ICRG) measures compiled by the PRS Group. The Worldwide Governance Indicators are an index comprising multiple sources, whereas the ICRG measures are expert assessments on
multiple dimensions of political, economic, and financial risk. It locates three common attributes of
states, “legitimacy, authority, and effectiveness,” among a variety of indexes and definitions of fragility and compares the results across indices. See Kaufmann, Kraay, and Mastruzzi 2010b. There is a
blurred line in the indicators between the measurement of governance outcomes (actual levels of
representation and participation, accountability for decisions and for illegal actions, and corruption
and human rights abuses) and institutional characteristics (whether there are systems and capacities
that regulate state-society relations within the rule of law, provide for prosecution of abuses, and so
forth). Most governance indicators actually measure both: whether a system is in place (for example,
a constitution or anti-corruption law, government policy on equitable service provision) as well as
some measurement, often imperfect, of whether these systems deliver good governance outcomes in
practice (low corruption levels, free and fair elections, avoidance of impunity for human rights
abuses, and so on).
66. See Stedman 1996; Brown 1996; Posen 1993; Snyder 2000; Goldstone and Ulfelder 2004; Goldstone
and others 2010; Besley and Persson 2009, 2010.
67. State legitimacy is tied to agreed rules and processes that promote accountability to its citizens, whether
through participation or through patronage. Patronage is particularly pervasive in fragile situations
where state capacity is weak; yet, it can also weaken state legitimacy if seen as unfair and reinforcing
horizontal inequalities (OECD 2010g, 2011). Shared beliefs are essential to link the state and its society
in constructive ways (Bellina and others 2009); for example, elections only become more than a formal
tool to collect opinion when there is a common and entrenched belief that they express the “will of the
people.” Together with collective identities and religion, “tradition” is a very important way to “ground”
state legitimacy (Clements 2010). These sources of legitimacy do not exist in isolation: improving
service delivery does not necessarily increase state legitimacy if the other elements are missing. State
legitimacy results from a combination of these sources and may take various forms, depending on
context.
68. The development community’s focus on fragility is related to pioneering work undertaken by Paul
Collier and Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala under the Low Income Countries Under Stress initiative. The policy implications of this original work were extensively elaborated by INCAF, an organization within
the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of OECD, as well as by the UN and various bilaterals,
most notably the U.K.’s DFID (Department for International Development). INCAF has produced
innovative thinking on security system reform, service delivery in fragile situations, the legitimacy of
the state, and the role of donors. The United Nations identified the need for institution-building for
a more secure and developed world at an early stage, particularly in the fields of conflict prevention
and peacebuilding. New thinking on fragility and state-building has received significant support
from research funded by DFID over the past 10 years; for a synthesis, see Garassi 2010.
69. North, Wallis, and Weingast 2009.
70. The current CPIA cutoff was normalized by year to account for the changing methodology in CPIA
over time.
71. For further discussion on measurements of governance, institutions, and fragility, see Mata and Ziaja
2009.
72. See North 1990; Williamson 1985; Rodrik, Subramanian, and Trebbi 2004.
73. Maynard 1997.
74. The high-class group of Bahun-Chhetri constitutes 28 percent of Nepal’s population.
75. The Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist) was renamed Unified Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist),
or UCPN (Maoist), following its merger in January 2009 with the Communist Party of Nepal–Unity
Centre (Masal).
76. Sharma 2008.

95

PART 2

Lessons from
National and
International Responses

T

his chapter sets out the Report’s framework for how countries
escape the vicious cycle of fragility and move toward a virtuous cycle of conﬁdence-building and institutional transformation, especially in the areas of citizen security, justice, and jobs.
The framework is presented as an expanding spiral because these
processes repeat over time as countries enter and exit multiple
transition moments. Even as one set of immediate priorities is
resolved, other risks emerge and require a repeated cycle of action
to bolster institutional resilience. This process takes at least a
generation. Societies undertaking this endeavor face a legacy of
pervasive and enduring mistrust, which makes collective action to
address challenges or provide public goods so diﬃcult. Outsiders
cannot restore conﬁdence and transform institutions for countries
because these processes are domestic and must be nationally led.
But to help countries restore peace and reduce regional and global
instability, international actors can provide external support and
incentives and help reduce external stresses.

CITIZEN
SECURITY,
JUSTICE,
AND JOBS

CHAPTER

EXTERNAL
STRESS
RE

ING

FID
CON
ENCE

TU

I

IO

ST

E NCE

UT

IN

FID
CON

T

E NC E

IT

R
TO

ING

NS

FID
CON

ST

I

ON

GI

I NG

IN

TI

R
TO

R
TO

TRANSFORMING

TU

VIOLENCE and
FRAGILITY

S

TRANSFORMIN

RE

S

TRANSFORMING

RE

S

3

TI

ON

S

NS

S

EXTERNAL SUPPORT
AND INCENTIVES

From violence to resilience:
Restoring confidence and
transforming institutions
Why transforming institutions
is so difficult

C

hanges in power relations and
contests around them are a constant feature of all societies. There
is nothing unusual about intense
social confrontation during the transformation of institutions, which normally involves
changes in the distribution of power and
wealth. Such contests do not end at some
point in a society’s development. U.S. government support for private banks and
greater state involvement in health care provision have stirred fierce controversy, as have
the recent transformations in public sector
functions caused by the impact of the financial crisis in Europe. In other words, change is
contested and painful in all circumstances.
But some societies can accomplish change in
the national interest, even when this involves
temporary losses for some groups. Other societies find this more difficult.
What makes institutional transformation
particularly difficult for states affected by violence? Many countries that recovered from
war in the mid-20th century, including most
of Europe and Japan, transformed their institutions quickly and smoothly. But they had a
long history of national institutional development and high levels of physical and human capital—and they had faced an external

war, not internal violence. Today’s middleand low-income countries affected by internal violence face greater challenges—for
three key reasons. First, launching an initial
agreement on change is hard because elites
do not trust each other and few people trust
the state. Second, maintaining an agreement
is difficult because institutional change can
increase the risks of violence in the short
term, due to political backlash from groups
that lose power or economic benefits. Third,
countries do not exist in isolation: during
fragile periods of institutional transformation, they may face external security threats
or economic shocks that can overwhelm
progress. These challenges are difficult to
overcome when physical, institutional, and
human capital is relatively low.

The challenge of low trust and rising
expectations
Launching an initial transition in fragile situations is difficult because of low trust and
low capacity to deliver on promises.1 Mistrust is much more pervasive in violenceaffected countries than in those with a long
history of a reasonably stable social compact
between state and citizen. This makes many
forms of cooperation difficult, including
measures to address the stresses triggering
violence in the first place. When there is

100

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

BOX 3.1

Unrealistic expectations in fragile states are hurdles to progress

The impact of a legacy of mistrust in violence-affected countries
A legacy of mistrust can mean that key actors do not respond as hoped to new political signals or new public programs. Consider
Afghanistan, where citizens need to calculate the risks of siding either with the Taliban or with the government and NATO (North
Atlantic Treaty Organization)—or with neither.
In making these decisions, individuals consider what they think others are likely to do. The thinking process might go like this: “The
consequences of my decision to provide the authorities with information on the Taliban depend on what others around me are going
to do. If my neighbors won’t cooperate, the authorities are going to lose control, and I’d be crazy to help them. So, even though I do
not support the Taliban, I’m better oﬀ helping them.” The same could apply to providing information on drug traﬃckers.2
All institutional change requires the coordinated actions of many people. That is why small events that change the beliefs about
what others will do can evoke big changes in the choices each individual makes. A single, but widely publicized, government humiliation in combat operations, for example, can translate into a major loss of popular support. A single, but widely publicized, incident of
corruption can evoke big changes in expectations and in political and economic behavior.

Expectations and trust in fragile states and in non-fragile states
Analysis of 280 country surveys in Latin America and Africa shows a signiﬁcant diﬀerence in citizen trust in fragile and non-fragile
states. The results reveal that countries that are not fragile or aﬀected by conﬂict have signiﬁcantly higher levels of trust in the police,
the justice system, and the parliament. This is consistent with recent research that explores cross-country diﬀerences in trusting neighbors and governments.
In simple terms, people’s expectations are often wrong about the future in fragile states. A simple cross-country regression using
data on expectations of economic improvements and actual economic growth suggests that, in non-fragile states, peoples’ expectations of the direction the economy will take in the next 12 months has a signiﬁcant correlation with actual outcomes.3 But in fragile
states, there is no such correlation: responses to the survey question, “will economic prospects improve in the next 12 months?” bear
no relationship to what subsequently happens in the economy. This is important, because all rational expectations theory in economics and political science—and the policy decisions linked to it—assume that people have a reasonably informed ability to make judgments about the future.
The low trust in government institutions in fragile and conﬂict-aﬀected countries poses a formidable constraint to leaders trying to
launch positive change. To further complicate the situation, operational experience and input from national policymakers highlight a
second, quite diﬀerent version of the expectations problem, that is, the excessively high popular expectations that arise in moments of
political hope and transition. Governments repeatedly encounter this: signing a peace agreement or a donor pledge conference can
create a wave of enthusiasm and the expectation that rapid change will follow. When the bubble bursts, as it usually does, governments can experience a rapid loss of credibility.
If policy makers understand these dynamics, they can harness public enthusiasm for change to their advantage by crafting signals
in ways that conform to expectations (chapter 4). Where mistrust is high, they have to take actions that send very strong signals—signals that are self-evidently costly, such as integrating former rebels into the national army structure, as in Burundi, or guaranteeing
long-term employment to former adversaries, as in South Africa through the “sunset clause” oﬀered to white civil servants. They also
have to ﬁnd ways to make promises binding, often using third parties as guarantors.
Sources: Braithwaite and Levi 1998; Hoﬀ and Stiglitz 2004a, 2004b, 2008; Schelling 1971, 1978; Axelrod 1984; Nunn 2008; Nunn and Wantchekon,
forthcoming.
Note: Diﬀerences in trust and expectations between fragile and non-fragile states reported here were statistically signiﬁcant at the 5 percent
level. These diﬀerences were signiﬁcant whether non-fragile was deﬁned as CPIA (Country Policy and Institutional Assessment) greater than 3.2
or CPIA greater than 3.8.

no convincing track record of progress and
information is poor, individuals can easily
have expectations that are either too low
(they are unresponsive to positive signals of
change)—or too high (they hold unrealistic
expectations and are easily disappointed)
(see box 3.1).
Low institutional capacity to deliver further reduces trust. Low-trust environments

require strong signals of real change. Yet the
capacity to deliver change is weak in most societies that score low on governance indicators.4 A further reason for failure in reform is
the “premature load-bearing” of institutions:
too many demands and expectations are
placed on them in a short period. When they
do not deliver, there is a loss of confidence
and legitimacy (see box 3.2).

From violence to resilience: Restoring confidence and transforming institutions

The process of reform itself may carry
short-term security risks. Research suggests
that a shift from authoritarian rule toward
democracy is associated with a higher risk
of civil war and an increase in criminal violence.5 Taking on too many reforms too fast—
such as decentralizing services and combating
insurgents or traffickers—can risk backlash
and institutional loss of credibility. Rapid reforms make it difficult for actors in the postconflict society to make credible commitments with each other, since they do not know
how the reforms will affect the “balance of
power.” Elections, often seen as “winner takes
all” events in fragile states, can evoke powerful
reactions from those who lose.6 And if disadvantaged groups or regions are empowered
by reform, existing power-holders must lose
some power as a result. Economic restructuring changes the balance of economic access
and opportunity. Anti-corruption efforts attack entrenched interests, sometimes very
powerful ones. The point here is not that it is
wrong to attempt such reform: instead it is to
be aware of the risks—and to adapt the design of reforms accordingly, to ensure that the
state can deliver on promises.7
A history of recent violence sharpens this
dilemma. In societies that lack effective security and rule of law, potential reformers may
well perceive that reforms will put their lives
at risk and cause them to postpone or avoid
change. In the 1983–93 “narco-terrorist”
period in Colombia, the Cali and Medellín
drug cartels ordered an estimated 3,500 assassinations of presidential candidates, politicians, judicial officers, and government officials seen to oppose them.8 For those who
need protection, legacies of violence can undermine their belief in the efficacy of the state
and weaken their willingness to support reform. For those considering violence, the
possibility of impunity can reinforce their
willingness to use violent means.9 A potent
illustration of how reforms can evoke violence is the transitional experience of the
former Soviet Union, where homicide rates
soared as the state undertook wide-ranging
reforms (see box 3.3).

B OX 3 . 2

Premature load-bearing

Public policy (or program) implementation involves agents taking action with a
particular set of standards. Tax implementation, for example, involves the collection of taxes (sales, income, dutiable import, property valuation, and so on)
according to rules for assessing the amount due. Procurement involves assessing
bids according to stipulated procedures, followed by contract awards. Premature
load-bearing can occur during a reform process when there is a large divergence
between what is in the agents’ best interest and what they are supposed to do.
For example, in implementing a revised customs code, if the tariﬀ is very
high, the importer may oﬀer the customs oﬃcer a side payment to avoid (or
reduce) what is owed. Higher tariﬀs entail greater pressure on the system: but so
do complex tariﬀ codes with exemptions based on intended use. In Kenya and
Pakistan the collected tariﬀ rate increased with the oﬃcial tariﬀ (not one for one,
but it did increase) up to around 60 percent, after which the collected rate
stopped increasing. After that point, further increases in the tariﬀ just increased
the discrepancy between the oﬃcial rate and the collected rate. As the tariﬀ rate
increases, the amount importers would pay to evade the tariﬀ increases too, so
the temptation for customs oﬃcers to deviate also increases. In other words,
complexity and its ambiguity make collusion with importers easier. In this case a
low and uniform tax would create less organizational stress.
These same considerations apply across the range of state activities, from
policing to justice and to public ﬁnancial management and education. Diﬀerent
tasks create diﬀerent organizational load-bearing pressures and diﬀerent
inducements to deviate from organizational standards. When those pressures
overwhelm capacity and incentives are not aligned, systems fail.
Systems often fail when stress is placed on individual components. Pressure
can sometimes cause a nonlinear degradation in performance. In many organizational situations where one agent’s performance depends on many other
agents around them, modest amounts of stress can bring about total collapse.
An example is the Chad College, established to enhance government accountability in the use of proceeds from newly discovered oil. The mechanism relied
heavily on local civil society to secure, evaluate, and provide opinions on government funding allocations out of the oil revenues—a formula that works well
in environments where civil society has high capacity, and where a tradition of
government openness and accountability to citizens has been established.
Under stress, however, the civil society groups could not hold government to
account, and the mechanism collapsed.
Sources: Pritchett and de Weijer 2010; Kaplan 2008; Lund 2010.

The challenge of vulnerability to
external stress
Countries with weak institutions are disproportionately vulnerable to external shocks.
Severe external shocks can overwhelm even
fairly strong institutions: witness the incipient social unrest in 2010 in many parts of Europe as a result of austerity measures to contain the global financial crisis, or the assaults
on governance from shifting patterns in
global drug trafficking. When institutions are
both well-developed and reasonably static—

101

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

B OX 3 .3

Violence can increase during fast institutional transformations

The late 1980s witnessed major economic reform in the Soviet Union under Mikhail Gorbachev’s glasnost
and perestroika initiatives. Among the consequences were severe unemployment, the virtual collapse of a
previously comprehensive social welfare regime, and a sharp contraction of many public services. This
was followed by the breakup of the Soviet Union into independent republics and the introduction of
multiparty politics. A rise in homicides accompanied this period of turbulence, peaking in 1993 at 18
per 100,000 population and again in 2001 at 20 per 100,000 (see ﬁgure). With reforms beginning to pay
dividends by the 2000s, social instability subsided and homicides began to fall.

Homicides in turbulent times: The Soviet Union
Homicide rates increased in Russia following the di ssolution of the Soviet Union and the rapid reforms
during the 1990s. This phenomenon was not unique to Russia: nearly every former Soviet country had
homicides increase in the early 1990s.
a. Homicide rates in Russia, 1986–2008
Homicides (per 100,000 population)

25
20
15
10
5

87
19
88
19
89
19
90
19
91
19
92
19
93
19
94
19
95
19
96
19
97
19
98
19
99
20
00
20
01
20
02
20
03
20
04
20
05
20
06
20
07
20
08

19

19

86

0

Period of reform

Lowest smoothed curved for homicides

b. Homicide rates in former Soviet republics, 1990–2000
25
Homicides (per 100,000 population)

102

20
15
10
5
0
1990

1991

Armenia
Azerbaijan
Belarus
Estonia
Georgia
Kazakhstan

1992

1993

1994

1995

1996

Kyrgyz Republic
Lithuania
Latvia
Moldova
T istan
Tajik
Turkmenistan

1997

1998

1999

2000

Ukraine
Uzbekistan
Average for
f all
former Soviet republics
(excludes Russia)

Most former Soviet republics experienced a spike in homicides following the dissolution of the Soviet
Union, with notable peaks in Estonia (20 in 1994), Georgia (17 in 1993), Kazakhstan (17 in 1996), and Tajikistan (21 in 1993). In every country except Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan, homicides increased between
1990 and 1994, followed by a decline, though the average homicide rate in 2000 remained above the level
of 1990, and only a few countries had lower homicide rates at the end of the decade.
Sources: The PRS Group 2010; World Bank 2010n; WDR team calculations.

103

From violence to resilience: Restoring confidence and transforming institutions

as in the OECD (Oranisation for Economic
Co-operation and Development) countries—
external shocks can be absorbed, but even
then, they will affect reform plans. Chapter 2
showed that fragile countries experienced
more food protests, and more violence during food protests, than non-fragile countries
during recent food price crises. Likewise, recent research suggests that the impact of natural disasters is more pronounced in fragile
states.10 Not only are fragile countries more
vulnerable to the effects of disasters, but disasters and external shocks can interrupt institutional transformation, as was the case in
promising sectors after Haiti’s devastating
earthquake in early 2010.11

researched, and this Report has only some of
the answers. The framework below suggests
some fundamental differences between fragile
and violent situations and stable developing
environments.12 The first is the need to restore confidence in collective action before
embarking on wider institutional transformation. Second is the priority of transforming
institutions that provide citizen security,13
justice, and jobs. Third is the role of regional
and international action to reduce external
stresses. Fourth is the specialized nature of
external support needed (figure 3.1).
The framework is not meant to be a
“grand theory” of violence, nor is it the only
way to understand violence prevention. It
builds, however, from the research described
in chapters 1 and 2 and a review of country
experience, and provides a useful organizing
framework for action. First, it provides a systematic way of thinking about what can be
done to prevent violence—and the recurrence of violence over time. Indeed, the question of most relevance to national reformers

Escaping violence, developing
resilience
Given the difficulties, how have countries escaped from violence and achieved institutional resilience? These pathways are under-

F I G U R E 3.1

WDR Framework: Repeated cycles of action to bolster institutional resilience
The WDR framework is presented as an e ver-expanding spiral because these processes repeat over time as countries go through
multiple transitions. Even as one set of immediate priorities is resolved, other risks and transition moments emerge and require a
repeated cycle of action to bolster institutional resiliency. The arrow below the spiral illustrates that external support and incentives
can help this nationally led process, and the arrow above it illustrates how external stresses can derail it.
CITIZEN
SECURITY,
JUSTICE,
AND JOBS
EXTERNAL
STRESS

RE

ENCE

EXTERNAL SUPPORT
AND INCENTIVES

FID
CON

S

ING

I

NS

TU

I

IO

ST

E NCE

UT

IN

FID
CON

T

E NC E

IT

R
TO

ING

NS

FID
CON

ST

ON

GI

I NG

IN

Source: WDR team.

TI

R
TO

R
TO

TRANSFORMING

TU

VIOLENCE and
FRAGILITY

S

TRANSFORMIN

RE

S

TRANSFORMING

RE

S

TI

ON

S

104

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

and international agencies—and the one that
an institutional emphasis puts front and center—is in practical terms, “what can we do to
prevent violence?” Second, the framework is
compatible with the theories of violence in
different disciplines (box 3.4). Third, by focusing on the challenges in moving from crisis management to security, justice, and economic institutional transformation, it brings
together the thinking of local, national, and
international actors as well as political, security, and development agencies.
The framework suggests that institutional
transformation and good governance, which
are important in development generally,
work differently in fragile situations. The
goal is more focused—transforming institutions that are directly important to the prevention of repeated cycles of violence. The
dynamics of institutional change are also
different. A good analogy is a financial crisis
caused by a combination of external stresses
and historic weaknesses in institutional
checks and balances. In such a situation, exceptional efforts are needed to restore confidence in national leaders’ ability to manage
the crisis—through actions that signal a real
break with the past, and through locking in
these actions and showing that they will not
be reversed. To prevent the crisis recurring,
concerted action will also be needed to address the underlying institutional and governance weaknesses that precipitated it—but
without a restoration of confidence among
both national and international stakeholders,
these reforms will not be possible.

Restoring confidence and transforming
institutions
The framework therefore argues that confidence-building—a concept used in political
mediation and financial crises but rarely in
development circles14—is a prelude to more
permanent institutional change in the face of
violence. Why apply this to the challenges of
fragility and violence? Because the low trust
caused by repeated cycles of violence means
that stakeholders who need to contribute political, financial, or technical support will not

collaborate until they believe that a positive
outcome is possible. Chapter 4 examines
country-level experiences of three mechanisms to restore the confidence of key stakeholders in fragile and violent situations:
• Developing collaborative, “inclusive
enough” coalitions. To bridge problems
of low trust between societal groups and
between the state and society, we examine
the role that coalitions involving a broad
range of stakeholders have played in
successful exits from violence—whether
government-led alliances in support of security and development actions or negotiated agreements between parties to a conflict. Inclusion can embed strong political
economy incentives. It brings benefits to
leaders—by providing support and resources from key stakeholder groups and
ensuring that individual leaders or parties
do not take all the blame for unpopular decisions.15 It can also signal change and provide incentives for reform if parties responsible for abuses are excluded. An inclusive
approach can also carry longer-term political economy benefits, by creating pressure
for continuing change, avoiding narrow
and persistent elite captures of the state.
• Using signals and commitment mechanisms to build support. Without strong
signals of a break with the past and ways
to reassure stakeholders that the new direction will be sustained, developing coalitions of support for change can be difficult. Leaders need ways to find the right
signals to galvanize support—signals that
have been successful in different country
contexts are examined. When trust in
announcements on future policy is low,
leaders also need mechanisms to lock
promises in and persuade people that they
will not be reversed—called “commitment mechanisms” by economists and
political scientists. We consider the type
of commitment mechanisms that have
been useful in the face of risks of repeated
cycles of violence.
• Delivering early results. Expectations
from government policy announcements
alone will likely be insufficient to persuade

From violence to resilience: Restoring confidence and transforming institutions

B OX 3.4

The WDR framework and theories of violence prevention

Paul Collier in Breaking the Conﬂict Trap and The Bottom Billion, and Douglass North, John Wallis, and Barry
Weingast in Violence and Social Orders have been among the most inﬂuential theorists of the links among
conﬂict, violence, and development.
North, Wallis, and Weingast describe three “doorstep conditions” for fragile countries to move toward
long-term institutional violence prevention:
• Ensuring the rule of law, particularly over property issues, for elites
• Creating a “perpetual state” in the constitutionality of transfer of power and the ability of state commitments to bind successor leaders
• Consolidating control over the military.
Their framework provides a perceptive analysis of national development dynamics but does not
explicitly address international stresses on states, international assistance, or the inﬂuence of international
norms and standards.
Collier’s work, by contrast, focuses less on domestic political dynamics and more on low income, corruption, and natural resource rents. He explicitly considers external security guarantees and international
standards for resource extraction.
This Report brings together these strands of thinking and adds analysis that both supports earlier
hypotheses and provides new questions for further research. It uses quantitative techniques to conﬁrm
that institutions matter for violence prevention. It brings this together with other work from economics,
political, and social science on how institutional transformations take place. And it adds some concepts
and examples from country case studies and regional and country consultations to ﬂesh out understanding of these transitions.
Chapter 2 provided empirical analysis of the importance of institutions for long-term violence prevention. It supports the theories of economists and political scientists who have focused on institutions, such
as Collier; Fearon and Laitin; and North, Wallis, and Weingast. Interestingly, it provides some initial evidence not only that very highly developed countries deﬁned by North and colleagues as “open access
orders” have lower rates of violence, but also that institutions and good governance outcomes matter at
much lower levels of development. Institutions matter for preventing criminal violence and organized
crime as well as for preventing political conﬂict.
This chapter focuses on practical lessons that can be applied in extreme conditions of insecurity and
weak institutions. It expands on existing work in three ways:
• Why institutional reforms are so diﬃcult. The chapter draws upon scholars such as Acemoglu and
Robinson, Fearon, and Laitin; Keefer, Weingast and others who have studied early transition periods to
describe why the political economy of institutional reform in insecure environments is so diﬃcult, and
why so many reform eﬀorts therefore fail.
• What it takes to make institutional reforms happen. The chapter uses country case studies and inputs
from national reformers to look at how countries in outright crises have restored conﬁdence, and how
countries with ongoing insecurity and weak legitimacy, capacity, and accountability have transformed
their institutions in the longer term. This work builds on North and colleagues’ analysis of the pathways
to move to broader institutional transformation, prevent violence from recurring, and lay the basis for
longer-term development—but it focuses on earlier periods of transition in very insecure environments. In so doing, it moves beyond most existing theories by explicitly considering how external
stresses and external assistance can aﬀect these processes.
• Understanding that transformations take time and adopting appropriate institutional models is
critical. The chapter adds empirical measures of how long these transformations take, even for the
countries that made the fastest transitions in the late 20th century, and considers what can accelerate
them. It also adds an important qualiﬁer to “institutions matter for violence prevention” by arguing that
this does not mean convergence toward Western institutional models. Societies that prevent violence
from recurring have designed solutions based on their own history and context—and have created or
adapted rather than simply copied institutions from other countries.
The rest of this chapter elaborates the arguments in each of these areas. Chapters 4–9 then show how
countries can restore conﬁdence and transform institutions—and how international support can help
them do so.
Sources: Collier and others 2003; Collier 2007; North, Wallis, and Weingast 2009; Weingast 1997; Fearon and Laitin
2003; Acemoglu and Robinson 2006; Keefer 2008.

105

106

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

stakeholders that a positive outcome is
possible due to credibility issues described
above. Delivering early tangible results in
areas that reflect the priorities of key
stakeholder groups and the broader citizenry is vital. We look at the mechanisms countries have used to deliver early,
confidence-building results, including
results that span the security, justice, and
economic domains, and the use of combined state, community, private sector,
and civil society capacities to deliver.
Confidence-building is not an end in itself.
Institutional reforms to deliver security and
check the power of those in government are
necessary to prevent a reversion to the vicious
cycle of narrow elite pacts and recurring violence (chapter 2). For this to happen, personalized leadership has to shift toward more
permanent, depersonalized institutional capacity and accountability. Unless confidencebuilding signals and early results are linked
to the development of more legitimate, accountable, and capable institutions, countries remain acutely vulnerable to violence.
In chapter 5, we explore two mechanisms for
sustained institutional transformation:
• Devoting early attention to the reform of
institutions that provide citizen security,
justice, and jobs. The interlink between security and development has been debated
under the notion of human security, which
encompasses freedom from fear, freedom
from want, and freedom to live in dignity.
By putting the security and prosperity of
human beings at the center, human security addresses a wide range of threats, both
from poverty and from violence, and their
interactions. While acknowledging the importance of human security and its emphasis on placing people at the center of
focus, this Report uses the term “citizen security” more often to sharpen our focus
more on freedom from physical violence
and freedom from fear of violence. The
hope is to complement the discussion on
the aspect of freedom from fear in the human security concept.16 In institutional re-

form efforts, there is a tendency to tackle
everything at once, and immediately. We
explore early efforts that have proven successful in reforming institutions that
directly address the correlates of violence—security, justice, and economic
stresses—and which reform areas have
generally been addressed more gradually.
• Using and exiting “best-fit” reform approaches. The record of backlash against
change described above argues that reforms of institutions in fragile contexts
need to be adapted to the political context
rather than be technically perfect. We explore the extent to which countries that
have become resilient to violence have
often used unorthodox, “best-fit” reform
approaches that allow for flexibility and
innovation—public support for employment; non-electoral consultative mechanisms; combinations of state, private
sector, faith-based, traditional, and community structures for service delivery, for
example (see box 3.5).

Marshaling external support and
resisting external stresses
Building resilience to violence and fragility
is a nationally owned process, but external
support and incentives and external stresses
can contribute to progress or to backsliding.
Outsiders cannot restore confidence and
transform institutions—these processes are
domestic and have to be nationally led. But to
help countries restore normalcy and reduce
regional and global instability, international
actors can offer the following:
• Providing effective external support and
incentives. Some countries have restored
confidence and transformed institutions
using only their own financial and technical resources, but most have drawn on
diplomatic, security, and development
assistance from outside. External action
can help by building trust through external commitment mechanisms; delivering
quick results that reinforce government

From violence to resilience: Restoring confidence and transforming institutions

B OX 3.5

“Best-fit” reforms

What do we mean by “best-ﬁt” reforms? Because of the risks of political backlash and premature overloading described earlier, in conditions of imperfect security and weak institutions, “best-practice” technocratic
reform options may not work. Less orthodox approaches that are best-ﬁt in the context of imperfect security, institutional capacity, and competitive markets can work better—but may have “second best” implications that need to be managed.17 Consider the following ﬁve examples:
•

A country wants to legitimize the formation of a government and a new reform direction through an
election, but insecurity still rages over most of the territory, many voters cannot get to the polls, and
polling and vote-counting cannot be monitored. Non-electoral representative mechanisms, where perceived by citizens to provide genuine voice and accountability, can be used in the short term, but in
the medium term, they will require renewed legitimization.

•

A country has 20–30 percent unemployment, criminal gangs recruiting from its youth population, and
an economy structurally underinvested in areas of its comparative advantage. In the short term, publicly subsidized employment may be the best-ﬁt option, but in the longer term, an exit pathway to formal employment in the private sector will be needed.

•

A country needs electricity for the economy to recover, but insurgents have the capability to attack
large generation and distribution facilities. Medium-size generators may cost more but may be the bestﬁt option in the short term. In the longer term, the country may need to exit to a lower-cost solution.

•

A country wants to divert public spending to education and infrastructure, but has a large standing
army and a rebel army in place. In the short term, integrating these forces and paying their salary
costs may be the best-ﬁt option, but in the longer term, the force may need to be downsized and
professionalized.

•

A country has tens of thousands of people accused of past human rights violations, but its formal justice system can process only 200 cases a year. A community-based process may be the best-ﬁt option,
but the formal justice system will still need to be built, with redress for families inadequately dealt with
in the initial process.

Source: WDR team.

legitimacy; supporting institutional transformation with flexible approaches that
respect best-fit reform options; applying
realistic timelines for institutional progress; and providing incentives to reward
responsible governance and to sanction
failing leadership.
• Diminishing external stresses on fragile
states. Reducing external stress includes
action to contain the adverse impact of
illegal trafficking, international corruption, and money laundering—and protecting countries against economic shocks.
Some of these challenges are beyond the
control of individual states. Analyzing the
strengths and weakness of regional and
global initiatives can ensure that national
reform efforts are not overwhelmed by
new pressures and that successful action in

one country does not simply push problems to neighboring countries.

Doing it again—and again, and in
different types of transition
Just as violence repeats, efforts to build confidence and transform institutions typically follow a repeated spiral. Countries that
moved away from fragility and conflict often
did so not through one decisive “make or
break” moment—but through many transition moments, as the spiral path in figure 3.1
illustrates. National leaders had to build confidence in the state and to transform institutions over time, as with the Republic of Korea’s transitions in the security, political, and
economic spheres, which included repeated
internal contests over the norms and gover-

107

108

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

nance of postwar society.18 A repeated process enables space for collaborative norms
and capacities to develop, and for success
to build on successes in a virtuous cycle.
For each loop of the spiral the same two
phases recur: building confidence that positive chance is possible, prior to deepening the
institutional transformation and strengthening governance outcomes.
Transitions out of fragility and repeated
cycles of violence occur through preventive
actions as well as post-conflict recovery. The
South African transition was not a classic
post–civil war transition: while low-level civil
and political violence existed, leaders took
preventive action before the country succumbed to outright civil war (feature 3). This
is not unusual: two-thirds of the societies
exiting fragility in the last 20 years did so without a major civil war.19 Some opportunities
arose when incumbent leaders recognized the
need for change and created the conditions to
make change happen—as in Ghana in 2003,
where a potential conflict over succession
rights between two clans in the north was
avoided.20 Other opportunities arose from
mass protests or social action, as in Benin in
1990, where a popular movement precipitated
a national conference that led to a new constitution, multiparty elections, and the end of 17
years of autocratic rule.21 Multiple transitions have also been the general pattern in
middle-income countries emerging from authoritarian rule, such as Argentina and Chile.
Even the worst natural disasters can provide opportunities for transitions from conflict and fragility: although movements to
negotiate a settlement between the Indonesian government and the Free Aceh Movement (Gerakan Aceh Merdeka) began just
before the devastating 2004 Indian Ocean
tsunami, the resulting humanitarian crisis
and massive reconstruction effort created
common ground, as both sides turned to
helping survivors and rebuilding Aceh. While
countries can remain in a vicious cycle of severe violence for long periods, there are many
opportunities for key participants to recognize that change is in their self-interest.

Do not expect too much, too soon
The passage of time permits the development
of an institution’s identity and the shared values that support it. And repeated successes in
delivery by an institution both reinforce internal morale and build credibility in the eyes
of the public. To make reasoned judgments
about time frames, it is important to have
historical reference points. One approach is
to ask how long it took today’s high- or
middle-income societies to achieve current
institutional attainment levels. A comparison
between the most and the least developed
societies is unhelpful: in 1700, for example,
the Netherlands already had a real per capita
GDP higher than that of the poorest 45 countries today.22 A more useful approach is to
compare current rates of institutional development among today’s fragile states against
rates of more recent “transformers.”
Historically, the fastest transformations
have taken a generation. Well-known institutional indices are relevant to reducing the
risk of violence—the rule of law, corruption,
human rights, democratic governance, bureaucratic quality, oversight of the security
sectors, and equity for the disadvantaged.23
How much time has it taken to move from
current average levels in fragile states around
the world to a threshold of “good enough
governance”? The results are striking. It took
the 20 fastest-moving countries an average of
17 years to get the military out of politics, 20
years to achieve functioning bureaucratic
quality, and 27 years to bring corruption under reasonable control (box 3.6). This did
not mean perfection, but rather adequacy.
Nor should these targets be considered easy
benchmarks for most of today’s fragile and
violence-affected countries, since the “fastest transformers” described above often had
more favorable starting conditions than today’s fragile states. Portugal and the Republic
of Korea are among the fastest institutional
transformers of the 20th century, but both
started their transformations with a foundation of extensive state institutional experience, and with literacy rates far higher than

109

From violence to resilience: Restoring confidence and transforming institutions

B OX 3.6

Fastest progress in institutional transformation—An estimate of realistic ranges
The table shows the historical range of timings that th e fastest reformers in the 20th century took to achieve basic
governance transformations.
Scenarios for dimensions of “state capability”
Years to threshold at pace of:
Indicator

Fastest 20

Fastest over the threshold

Bureaucratic quality (0–4)

20

12

Corruption (0–6)

27

14

Military in politics (0–6)

17

10

Government eﬀectiveness

36

13

Control of corruption

27

16

Rule of law

41

17

Source: Pritchett and de Weijer 2010.
Note: Calculations are based on International Country Risk Guide indicators that ranked countries on a 0–4 scale over the period
1985–2009. The column “fastest 20” shows the average number of years the fastest 20 performers have taken to reach the threshold,
and the second column shows the time it took the fastest ever country to achieve a threshold indicator score.

those in, say, the Democratic Republic of
Congo or Haiti today.24
The track record of institutional transformations indicates that they have been getting
faster over time: modern transformations
can be contrasted with the 100+ years common in previous centuries. Three international trends may plausibly support a “virtuous spiral” for faster transformations:
• First, states do not operate in isolation
from each other or the global system.
Modern states are part of an international
system that confers certain benefits and
requires specific behaviors. Today these
behaviors include helping to maintain interstate security (by not threatening other
states, for example, and by observing
“rules of warfare”), upholding international law, and abiding by treaty obligations—and behaving at home in ways
consistent with international norms (by
protecting human rights and eschewing
corruption or unconstitutional changes
in government, for instance). Global and

regional norms are dealt with in more detail in chapter 6.25
• Second, new technologies support growing demands for good governance. People
today have much easier access to information on what others think (including
others across the world), and this makes
it far harder for governments to ignore
the interests of their broad masses.26 Videos of events at the end of the Soviet era
showed citizen movements from Nepal to
Romania what could be achieved through
mass protest, while recent revolutions27
have exploited the newer personal communication technologies, such as the socalled Twitter revolution in Moldova, and
the role of social media in the Middle
East and North Africa.28 States do sometimes reject citizen demands, but the
price they pay today tends to be higher,
measured in repression, economic stagnation, and international isolation. The
spread of new technologies reinforces
the circulation of international principles

110

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

and the benchmarking of government
performance by citizens and civil society
organizations. This, and the organizational capabilities embodied in new technology, has a huge impact on people’s
ability to put pressure on their state institutions (as in the Islamic Republic of
Iran in 2009).29 But the expansion of
communications channels can cut either
way. For example, in early 2008 in Kenya,
following the contested December 2007
elections, mobile phones played a dual
role of encouraging violence and preventing its spread.30
• Third, new technologies also create possibilities for improving service delivery, even
in the most fragile situations. Technologies that enable communication between
citizen groups within and across countries
can help governments accelerate the type
of institutional transformation that improves performance and process legiti-

BOX 3.7

Optimism or wishful thinking?

Haiti at the end of 2009 had made considerable advances in restoring security
and better governance in the wake of the 2004 crisis following the removal of
President Jean-Bertrand Aristide. Security had been restored in urban areas.
Trust in government institutions, including the police, had risen. Basic public
ﬁnance functions were functioning. And considerable humanitarian and community services and small reconstruction projects had been launched.
Before the earthquake struck Haiti in 2010, the government was in discussions with various parts of the international community—diplomatic, peacekeeping, and development—on pressing institutional transformations. These
included fundamental economic restructuring needed to create jobs in agriculture and textiles; the appointment of personnel in both the Supreme Court and
the lower courts to restore better basic functioning to the justice sector; constitutional changes to, among other things, reduce the frequency of elections;
increased decentralization in the administration; rapid expansion of the police
force; anti-corruption measures to avoid diversions of aid funds; revenue reform
to increase the tax base; and action against drug traﬃckers to address shifts in
transit patterns into the Caribbean. All these actions were to take place over 18
months when Haiti also had two elections scheduled.
The tragedy that overtook the country in January 2010 makes it impossible
to know whether these reforms would have been completed. The link between
violence and institutions, and of historical state-building experiences elsewhere,
does show that these changes would make Haitian society more resilient to
renewed violence—but that no country has ever successfully completed this
level of change in 18 months.
Sources: WDR consultation with government oﬃcials, United Nations and donor
representatives, local nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), and community-based
organization representatives in Haiti, 2010.

macy. In the Democratic Republic of
Congo, transitional payments were made
to over 100,000 ex-combatants via cell
phone since 2004, and citizen surveys have
been conducted using SMS (short message
service).31 Such services would have been
costly and inefficient across a vast territory
with little infrastructure before the advent
of technological change.
Wishful thinking on timing pervades development assistance when it comes to governance and institution building. In part it
derives from the desire to meet international
norms quickly, which is understandable: human rights abuses and gross corruption are
abhorrent. But goals are then set that require
state capability, sometimes without considering whether the capability exists, and sometimes under the presumption that it can be
created quickly (given resources and “political will”). This is mistaken. Even the Republic
of Korea, which had the resources and political will (and a higher level of human capital
than many fragile states today), took a generation to make these changes.32 No country
today is likely to be able to make it in three to
five years, the typical timeline of national
leadership and the international community
(box 3.7).

Adapt to different contexts
The process necessary to restore confidence
and transform institutions are similar in
countries that have different combinations
of stresses and institutional characteristics;
between low- and middle-income countries,
and even high-income countries facing subnational violence; and between countries
facing violence of purely criminal origins
and those facing political and civil conflict.
While the dynamics of change may be similar, the framework must be applied differentially, depending on the specific features of
the case in question.
In some countries, stresses from international trafficking in natural resources or infiltration of armed groups from abroad are important, while in others, trafficking of drugs

From violence to resilience: Restoring confidence and transforming institutions

B OX 3.8

Spectrum of situation-specific challenges and
opportunities

Types of violence: Civil, criminal, cross-border, subnational, ideological, or any combination
of these
Transition opportunity: Gradual/limited to
immediate/major space for change

Key stakeholders: Internal vs. external
stakeholders; state vs. nonstate stakeholders;
low-income vs. middle-high-income
stakeholders

Key stresses: Internal vs. external stresses;
economic vs. political stresses; high vs. low
level of divisions among groups

Institutional challenges: Low capacity
constraints vs. high capacity; low
accountability vs. high accountability;
exclusion vs. inclusion

Source: WDR team.

may be the principal external stress. Internal
stresses stemming from actual or perceived
inequalities between groups may take the
form of urban-rural divides in some countries, ethnic or geographical in others, or religious in still others. Economic shocks or high
unemployment may be important in some
countries but not in others.
Institutional challenges in dealing with
these stresses also vary (box 3.8). Some countries have to deal with weak capacity in both
state and civil society institutions, combined
with weak accountability; others may possess
reasonably strong capacity and resources, but
face challenges in state legitimacy because the
state is perceived to lack accountability in political representation, in its management of
public resources, or in its respect for human
rights—or is perceived to represent the interests of only one section of the population, to
the exclusion of others. In some countries,
the challenge is national: all areas of the
country are affected. In others, it is contained
but still significant: subnational areas exhibit
characteristics of fragility, with risks of actual
or potential violence.
Stresses and institutional characteristics
also change over time, with new stresses arising and new capabilities being developed.
In addition, the trajectory of change is important. In some countries, events may provide an opportunity for major political,
social, and economic change. In others, a his-

tory of recent deterioration may mean that
upcoming transition moments present an
opportunity to reverse deterioration in the
situation, but may not yet present a real opportunity to deliver decisive improvements.
The types of transition moment that offer an
opportunity for change of course vary enormously—from elections to external crises to
new government reform plans to anniversaries that are important in the country’s national psyche.
Thus, differentiated application of the
framework is essential. In applying the
framework, the choice of different types of
“inclusive-enough” coalitions and priorities for early results, the sequencing of institutional transformation efforts, and the
development of politically innovative institutions all depend on country-specific circumstances. Equally, external support and
incentives and international actions to address external stresses need to be designed
to fit the specifics of each country situation.
Throughout this Report, a differentiated political economy framework is used to ask the
following questions:
• What stresses does the country face that
increase the risks of violence occurring or
reoccurring? Areas to explore include the
infiltration of external armed groups and
trafficking networks; potential corruption
pressures from natural resources or other

111

112

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

forms of trafficking; political, social, or
economic inequalities and tensions between groups; high or rising unemployment and income shocks; and stresses that
arise in terms of ex-combatant or gangmember activity and circulation of arms.
• What institutional characteristics are paramount: capacity, including in different
state and nonstate institutions; accountability, including for different aspects—
political representation, corruption, respect for human rights; inclusion of
different groups, ethnic, religious, class,
geographical? What risks do these institutional characteristics present for national
actors and international actors?
• Which stakeholder groups are crucial to
building confidence and transforming institutions, and what signals, commitment
mechanisms, and results are most important to these groups? This may include
different groupings among political actors, security force leadership, excluded
citizens, business, labor, faith-based institutions, or other influential civil society groups, and external actors such as
neighboring governments, donors, and
investors.
• What types of transition moments are
coming up, and what opportunities do
they present? This needs to include not
only a creative assessment of opportunities for change, but also a realistic assessment of what these opportunities can and
cannot achieve—for example, some upcoming transition moments may offer an
opportunity to reverse deteriorations, but
not yet consolidate all the dimensions of
change needed for long-term resilience to
violence.

* * *
Institutions matter, doubly so for countries affected by violence. It is well known
in the economic literature that institutions
matter for economic development.33 The
emerging econometric evidence suggests
that countries are doubly affected by very
weak institutions—because the lack of institutions slows development, but also because weak institutions make them more
vulnerable to violence, which, itself, reverses
development. They find themselves in a
trap: the institutional reforms they need to
exit the vicious cycle of violence and temporary elite pacts are difficult to achieve,
precisely because the threat of violence
remains very real.34 As a result, the virtuous
spiral of restoring confidence and transforming institutions cannot expand—since
credibility is missing where violence (including the legacy of violence or the threat
of violence) is present, leaders must first engage in confidence-building through inclusive enough pacts and early results for their
commitments to be credible.
Only after actors have built trust and established their commitment to peaceful development through confidence-building can
they then credibly undertake the institutional
reforms necessary to escape the vicious cycle.
The repeated expansion of the WDR framework spiral is important because transformation takes time. Leaders, stakeholders, and
the international community must remember that societies will go through multiple
cycles of confidence-building and institutional reform before they can achieve the resilience to violence necessary for “development as usual.”

From violence to resilience: Restoring confidence and transforming institutions

FEATURE 3

113

Restoring security in Colombia

Types of violence: Traﬃcking, criminal and gang violence, civil conﬂict
Transition opportunity: Preventive action in the face of rising
criminality and failed peace talks

Key stakeholders: Government, armed groups, citizens, civil society,
regional, international partners, criminal networks

Key stresses: Legacies of violence, presence of international traﬃcking
and criminal networks, social and economic inequity

Institutional challenges: Absence in parts of the country of state
institutions; legacy of capacity, inclusion, and accountability challenges

C

olombia, a middle-income country, has experienced peace
for only 47 of its first 200 years of independence. Until the
turn of the 21st century, large parts of the territory were
marked by the absence of state institutions, and a long sequence of amnesties and negotiations with armed groups
merely recycled, but did not resolve, incentives for violence.
Over the past two decades, a number of new initiatives were
taken to restore confidence and security. These have been led
by both local and national governments and have had a significant impact in recent years.
DESEPAZ—an acronym for Desarrollo, Seguridad y Paz,
or development, security, and peace—started in Cali in 1992,
based on epidemiological studies of the violence that afflicted
the city (murder rates had climbed from 23 per 100,000 inhabitants to 93 from 1983 to 1992). Contributing to significant
reductions in violence, its programs included mulitsectoral
coordination of arms control, policing and justice, education,
housing, and recreation activities.
With homicide rates very high, Bogotá, like Cali, implemented a multisectoral approach in the 1990s that included
cooperation between community police and local residents,
and initiatives to stimulate the local economy. These and other
interventions reduced homicide rates in Bogotá from 80 per
100,000 people to 28 between 1993 and 2004, and increased
arrest rates by a factor of four.
More recently, Medellín also experienced a dramatic reduction in levels of criminal violence. As a city directly affected by
rebel groups and the violence of the drug cartels, Medellín became in 1991 the most violent city in the world, with a homicide rate of 381 per 100,000. The impact of national and local
security policies combined with social development strategies
helped reduce this to 29 per 100,000 people in 2007.
Serious efforts to negotiate with rebel groups began in the
1990s and included the creation in 1998 of a neutral zone under the control of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC). The failure of these efforts was blamed by many
on the FARC, and this helped build popular support for a shift
in strategy that branded the FARC as a criminal group. Begin-

ning in 2002, the new administration decided not to continue
with the previous government’s four-year negotiation with the
FARC and the National Liberation Army (ELN). It focused instead on consolidating state control throughout Colombia,
protecting the population and fighting the illicit drug trade—
aims subsequently formalized in the government’s “democratic
security” policy. Based on an integrated approach to restoring
confidence through security, private-sector job creation, and
social cohesion, the new policy aimed at “institucionalidad,” or
building and transforming institutions.
From 2002 to 2008, this approach had considerable success:
the armed forces were expanded from about 300,000 in 2002 to
more than 400,000 in 2007,35 and state presence throughout the
country reduced violence, particularly in rural areas. National
homicide rates were halved, from 70 per 100,000 people to 36,36
households forcefully displaced fell by 60 percent, and kidnappings fell by 83 percent.37 To increase the transparent functioning of government, Colombia improved on measures of corruption (from –0.44 to 0.24), the rule of law (from –0.92 to
–0.50), government effectiveness (from –0.40 to 0.13), and accountability (from –0.50 to –0.26).38 The reduction in violence
helped sustain rapid economic growth—at an average of 4.9
percent a year between 2002 and 2008, almost three times the
rate in the previous seven years.39 These impressive security
achievements did not come without costs, however: more than
300,000 people were newly displaced in 2008. Crime and insecurity have also begun to rise again in some urban areas, such as
Medellín (an increase in the homicide rate from 33.8 to 94.5 per
100,000 in 2007–09),40 as new forms of organized crime have
emerged. Nor has the FARC insurgency been decisively ended.
Several key lessons follow:
• The government used an “inclusive-enough” approach,
building broad national support for security goals when
ceasing negotiations with the FARC. After an in-depth dialogue with business groups, a “wealth tax” paid by the country’s richest taxpayers was introduced in 2002, earmarked
for the security effort. Social network campaigns were

114

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

FEATURE 3

Restoring security in Colombia (continued)

mounted against kidnapping and later against FARC’s use
of violence.
• Early confidence-building measures were crucial. The government deployed military resources to protect the main
road network, sponsoring convoys of private vehicles that
allowed many Colombians to travel between major cities in
safety for the first time in years. Mobility increased markedly: the number of vehicles passing through toll stations
rose from about 60,000 vehicles in 2003 to close to 150,000
vehicles in 2009.
• Combining political, security, and economic development
measures was central to the approach. The government established a national agency, reporting to the presidency, to

coordinate military, police, and civilian developmental efforts in the least secure areas. The multidisciplinary teams
of the Centro de Coordinación de Acción Integral (CCAI),
worked in the same offices and developed joint plans to
guide their actions. Common concepts—“democratic security” and the restoration of “institutionality” to areas
where the state had been absent—were important for close
collaboration between military and civilian actors.
WDR consultations underlined two big challenges going
forward. The first is to match the success in restoring confidence and security with longer-term institutional transformation. Surveys of popular perceptions show an enormous increase in confidence in both the security situation and in the
delivery of education services, as well as in overall trust in the

a. Popular conﬁdence dramatically improved in services and security
100
% respondents answering “yes”

90

86.1

86.1

80
66.6

70
60

50

50
40
30
20

11

10
0
Improvement in the delivery
of education services

Improvement in the
perception of security

Increased trust in
state institutions

Improvement in the delivery
of health services

Improvement in transparency
and accountability of
government

Source: WDR team calculations based on results from Bøås, Tiltnes, and Flatø 2010 for representative surveys conducted in early 2010.

state (see figure a). However, Amnesty International gave Colombia its lowest rating in 2008, and Freedom House maintained a rating of 4 (on a scale of 7) between 2002 and 2008.
A second challenge relates to security and justice institutions.
The justice system, while preserving its independence, was not
reformed at the same pace as the military and police, and had
difficulty keeping pace with the caseloads emerging from more
effective policing. A culture of impunity persisted, and threatened progress made in security sector reform. National institutions also faced a credibility test in relation to so-called falsepositive deaths: ongoing investigations and prosecutions are
looking into evidence that innocent poor young men were killed
and falsely portrayed as rebels killed in military operations.

Colombia’s success in attacking the larger drug cartels also
had unintended effects on its neighbors. The area under coca
cultivation has increased in Bolivia and Peru. Along with increases in productivity, this boosted South America’s potential
cocaine production to 865 metric tons in 2008, up from 800
metric tons in 2002.

Sources: Arboleda 2010; UNODC 2010b; World Bank 2010n; Guerrero
1999; Centro de Coordinación de Acción Integral 2010; WDR team consultations with government officials, civil society representatives, and security personnel in Colombia, 2010; WDR interview with former President Álvaro Uribe, 2010; WDR team calculations.

From violence to resilience: Restoring confidence and transforming institutions

REFLECTIONS FROM ADVISORY COUNCIL MEMBERS: 2011 WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT
B OX 3 . 9

Lessons of the South African transition: Restoring confidence and transforming
institutions
Jay Naidoo, Chairman of Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition; Former General Secretary, Congress of
South African Trade Unions; Minister of Reconstruction and Development, South Africa; and Former
Chairman of the Development Bank of Southern Africa; WDR Advisory Council Member
Based on discussions with Mac Maharaj, Sydney Mufamadi, Roelf
Meyer, Leon Wessels, Fanie van der Merwe, and Jayendra Naidoo.
In May 2010, as part of the World Development Report 2011 process, I was part of a discussion with key negotiators from the
ANC Alliance and National Party in which we reﬂected on the
lessons that could be learnt from the political transition to democracy in 1994. We were all agreed that a prerequisite for
successful political transitions had to be strong national ownership and that the peace process underpinning it had to be
embedded at a local level and deliver a peace dividend that
beneﬁtted local communities. The following points are what I
extracted from South Africa’s experiences:
There were multiple transition points which required efforts from the protagonists to shift the debate, rather than
only one “moment” of transition in 1994. These included citizen protests and strikes; legalization of unionism for black
workers; the start of undercover contacts in the late 1980s; the
release of Nelson Mandela and the unbanning of the ANC and
political parties in February 1990; the National Peace Accord in
1991; CODESA in 1992; the Transitional Executive Council and
associated bodies in 1993–94; the Reconstruction and Development Program in 1993–94; the Growth, Employment and
Redistribution Program in 1996; and the local government
democratic transition which only culminated in 2000.

After the 1994 elections, delivering a few early r esults—including maternal and infant healthcare and using community
structures to improve water supply—were important to maintain conﬁdence in our new government.

Transforming institutions
Unorthodox, locally adapted reforms . Participants agreed that
much of the global communication on South Africa’s transition
has been on the speciﬁc organizational form of the institutions
used (for example, Truth and Reconciliation Committees, national peace committees); and that in fact it may be more useful
to consider the underlying principles and approaches (including
those described above), on the basis that each country needs to
design their own institutional forms if they are to have full ownership of political processes.
Challenges in prioritizing and sequencing . In addition to some
of the key principles emerging from South Africa’s successful
transition, participants reﬂected on mistakes made or opportunities missed which may be of use when other countries consider these experiences. Four elements were highlighted as particularly important:
•

Very little of the discussions leading up to 1994 considered
preparation for delivery through the civil service. Problems
which later emerged as a result include lack of preparation in
setting up the provinces and deﬁning local government delivery responsibilities. We should have anticipated the capacity constraints as we increased the number of provinces and
set up new institutions.

•

Too little attention to job creation for youth and risks of criminal violence meant that we did not fully address the critical
need to ensure that the new generation who had not lived
through the apartheid struggle as adults were provided with
a strong stake—and economic opportunities—in the new
democratic state.

•

There was a need for tradeoﬀs on timing and the maintenance of social consensus to manage the mismatch between
the aspirational goals of the Reconstruction and Development Program, the macro and ﬁscal framework to pay for
them, and the institutional capacity to implement them.

•

There was too much of an assumption that 1994 marked the
culmination of a process of democratization and reconciliation. Relatively little attention was given to what was meant
by the transformation to a constitutional state; the continued role of civil society in deepening not just democratization and accountability, but also delivery; and there was a
need for a deeper and more thorough ongoing debate on racism, inequality, and social exclusion.

Restoring confidence
South Africa’s transition steps in the early 1990s were preceded
by a much longer period of change in mentality, or paradigm
shift, amongst the protagonists that gave credibility to the
process:
•

On the ANC Alliance side, this included the shift to a
broader, mor e inclusiv e appr oach, and the realization of
the need to ensure incentives for the National Party and
the white population.

•

On the National Party side, this included the shift from
thinking in terms of group rights and protection of minorities to thinking in terms of individual rights and majority
rule.

•

Certain signals which were perceived as irreversible (notably the unconditional release of Nelson Mandela and the
suspension of the ANC’s armed struggle) were critical in
maintaining trust between parties.

•

Leaders on both sides had to move quickly to avoid getting
bogged down by narrow interests in their own constituencies, in particular in periods of devastating crisis such as the
political assassination of Chris Hani.

115

116

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

Notes
1. According to Margaret Levi, “Trust is, in fact, a holding word for a variety of phenomena that enable
individuals to take risks in dealing with others, solve collective action problems, or act in ways that
seem contrary to standard definitions of self-interest.” Furthermore, Levi notes that “At issue is a cooperative venture, which implies that the truster possesses a reasonable belief that well-placed trust
will yield positive returns and is willing to act upon that belief” (Braithwaite and Levi 1998, 78).
2. Similar problems arise in the transition from communism to a rule-of-law state. The thought process might be as follows: “If I build value in a new firm rather than stripping the assets of the state, I
will gain only if rule of law is established. That will happen only if others demand rule of law, too. If
others don’t believe rule of law will be established, they will prefer to strip assets rather than build
value, so they will be unlikely to demand rule of law, and in that case, I’d be crazy to build value in a
new firm. Thus, even though most people would be better off building value under rule of law than
stripping assets in a lawless state, given my expectations of political development, I’m better off stripping assets.”
3. A 30 percent increase in people who believe that growth will improve in the next 12 months is associated with a 1 percent increase in actual growth rates in the subsequent year, significant at the 5 percent level.
4. A few societies have very strong state capacity, but score low on governance indicators because they
are highly exclusionary—South Africa under apartheid is an example. These countries will have less
difficulty in implementing promises because their military and civilian organizations are capable.
But it is possible that, even in these cases, institutional weaknesses in shared values and cohesion
make it difficult to deliver on change. Indeed, in South Africa change has not been a simple process.
5. Collier, Hoeffler, and Söderbom 2008; Fearon 2010a; Acemoglu and Robinson 2006.
6. Goldstone 2010.
7. de Figueiredo and Weingast 1999; Acemoglu, Johnson, and Robinson 2005.
8. Rich 2010.
9. Economic theory helps us understand the consequences of a perception of impunity that increases
willingness to use violent means. Chapter 2 referred to the way in which insecurity dynamics produce
“prisoner’s dilemmas,” where lack of trust between two actors undermines their ability to cooperate
to produce mutually beneficial outcomes. Economic theory shows that if the actors in question believe they will encounter the same dilemma again in the future, their calculation may differ—they
might recognize that taking a risk by trusting their counterpart in the present can produce important
payoffs in the future. So-called iterated prisoner’s dilemmas make cooperation possible, though not
guaranteed. If a society is confronted by a situation where many actors believe that others within
society may use violence to resist change, their willingness to bet on future cooperation is diminished. Where insecurity is not an immediate issue, betting on future payoffs makes sense; where the
future is highly uncertain, logic dictates placing an excessive premium on protecting existing privileges and resources, not risking them for collective gains. See Axelrod 1984.
10. See Keefer, Neumayer, and Plümper 2010.
11. See UN Security Council 2010a, WDR consultation with government officials, UN donor representatives, local nongovernmental organizations, and community-based organizations in Haiti, 2010.
12. An alternative perspective to the intertwined relationship between institutions and violence can be
found in Cramer 2006.
13. The WDR defines “citizen security” as both freedom from physical violence and freedom from fear
of violence. Applied to the lives of all members of a society (whether nationals of the country or
otherwise), it encompasses security at home; in the workplace; and in political, social, and economic
interactions with the state and other members of society. Similar to human security, “citizen security”
places people at the center of efforts to prevent and recover from violence. Also see Frühling, Tulchin,
and Golding 2003.
14. Confidence-building in mediation means building trust between adversaries; in financial crises, trust
in markets means that governments are adopting sound policies and will be capable of implementing
them. The WDR defines the term as building trust between groups of citizens who have been divided
by violence, between citizens and the state, and between the state and other key stakeholders (neighbors, international partners, investors) whose political, behavioral, or financial support is needed to
deliver a positive outcome.
15. These incentives are not always enough. Chapter 4 discusses cases where leaders are unwilling to
recognize an impending crisis or take action, and the approaches used to resolve these situations.
16. Building on the Commission on Human Security 2003 report, the importance of human security has

From violence to resilience: Restoring confidence and transforming institutions

17.

18.
19.

20.
21.
22.
23.

24.
25.

26.

27.

28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.

35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.

been recognized in the UN General Assembly 2005b resolution adopted at the 2005 World Summit,
the UN General Assembly 2009b report, and UN General Assembly 2010 Resolution, as well as in
other fora, such as Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation, G8, and World Economic Forum.
Throughout this report, the term “best-fit” describes solutions that are fitted to context of the society
at the moment and may not be the first best solutions by other metrics. Thus, these solutions invoke
the concept of the “second best” as used in economic theory—reforms may only be optimal once all
distortions and considerations are taken into account. In this way, best-fit solutions may be optimal
given all of the economic, political, physical, and institutional constraints and conditions.
Bedeski 1994; Cumings 2005; Chang and Lee 2006.
Based on historic CPIA scores, 40 countries would have been classified as fragile for five or more
years between 1977 and 1989. Box 2.10 showed that 17 of these countries remained fragile until 2009
and that 16 of those experienced minor or major civil war. Of the 23 that “escaped” fragility, 15 had
no war, 4 had minor civil war and 4 had major civil war between 1990 and 2009. WDR team calculation. Also see Mata and Ziaja 2009.
Odendaal 2010; Ojielo 2007; UNDPA 2010a.
Encyclopedia of the Nations 2010.
Pritchett and de Weijer 2010.
The indices are the Quality of Government Institute’s “quality of government” indicator (derived
from International Country Risk Guide data; the Kaufmann, Kraay and Mastruzzi indicator of “government effectiveness”; the Failed State Index’s “progressive deterioration of public services” indicator, and the Bertelsmann Transformation Index’s “resource efficiency” indicator). See Pritchett and
de Weijer 2010.
Pritchett and de Weijer 2010.
Global and regional norms play an essential part in preventing violence by constraining leadership
abuses of power, and in supporting local institutional transformations by helping maintain a focus on
goals and functions rather than particular institutional forms. These norms can take the form of formal
international agreements and can also manifest as social movements, such as the Otpor movement.
For example, while both Myanmar and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea have—to varying
degrees of success—used communication and travel bans to limit access to information and maintain control domestically, their ability to restrict information has declined dramatically in recent
years, as Internet access in Myanmar, and satellite television in both countries, convey images of the
world outside. See Horsey and Win Myint 2010.
Color revolutions refer to a series of spontaneous movements that arose in succession in several
former Soviet republics and one Balkan state during the early 2000s. These were mainly nonviolent
protests advocating for democracy against governments seen as corrupt and/or authoritarian. Starting as small spontaneous actions, they evolved within days or weeks into mass movements that toppled governments and instituted new democratic regimes. Each movement adopted a specific color
or flower as its symbol, and at the center of these movements were nongovernmental organizations
(NGOs) and particularly student activists. These movements were successful in Serbia (2000), Georgia (Rose Revolution 2003), Ukraine (Orange Revolution 2004), and the Kyrgyz Republic (Tulip
Revolution 2005). See Kuzio 2006; D’Anieri 2006; Michalcik and Riggs 2007.
See Mungiu-Pippidi and Munteanu 2009.
See, for example, Afshari and Underwood 2009.
Goldstein and Rotich 2008.
MDRP 2006.
Bedeski 1994; Cumings 2005; Chang and Lee 2006.
North 1989, 1995; Rodrik 2000; Acemoglu, Johnson, and Robinson 2005.
There is an important difference between what this report argues and the “conflict trap” described by
Collier and others 2003. In a “conflict trap,” low incomes lead to conflict, and conflict leads to low
incomes, creating a low-level equilibrium. The WDR focuses on the institutional deficit: the institutions that enable the peaceful resolution of contests are missing from fragile environments. With
actors lacking the means to make credible commitments to reform, societies are unable to break free
from the threat of violence. A low-level equilibrium of dysfunctional institutions and recurrent violence is thereby created.
See Arboleda 2010.
WDR team calculations.
See Arboleda 2010.
Kaufmann, Kraay, and Mastruzzi 2010a.
WDR team calculations, based on World Bank 2010n.
Municipio de Medellín 2010.

117

C

hapter 4 analyzes country lessons on building conﬁdence
through coalitions and early results. Most states moving back
from the brink of violence have developed “inclusiveenough” coalitions for action, with diﬀerent forms suiting their
circumstances. In forming such coalitions, leaders took action to
build trust by signaling that new policies would be diﬀerent from
the past and would not be reversed. They built conﬁdence by
achieving a few concrete results as a prelude to wider institutional
transformation. States that have succeeded in early conﬁdencebuilding measures have often done so through a pragmatic
blending of policy tools and by calling on non-state capacity, both
civic and international.

CITIZEN
SECURITY,
JUSTICE,
AND JOBS

CHAPTER

EXTERNAL
STRESS
RE

R
TO

S

FID
CON
ENCE

IO

TU

TI

ENCE

UT

NS

ST

E NC E

IT

GI

IN

FID
CON

ST

I

ON

FID
CON

I NG

IN

TI

ING

R
TO

TRANSFORMING

TU

VIOLENCE and
FRAGILITY

S

TRANSFORMING

RE

ING

R
TO

S

TRANSFORMIN

RE

4

TI

ON

S

NS

S

EXTERNAL SUPPORT
AND INCENTIVES

Restoring confidence:
Moving away from the brink
Drawing on lessons from
national reformers

L

eadership actions to restore confidence of stakeholders and citizens
in collective capacities for change
are a crucial first step in moving
away from the brink of violence. As chapters
2 and 3 described, the trust that the population and stakeholders have in state institutions to deal with violence can become shaky
when insecurity is rising, or in the aftermath
of repeated bouts of conflict. Knowledge
about effective ways to restore confidence
in countries affected by violence is limited.
This chapter thus expands ideas explored
in the policy and academic worlds, with lessons drawn from the WDR background papers and country consultations, including
the views of national reformers involved in
efforts to lead their countries away from the
brink.1
Analysis of country cases reveals a variety
of pathways away from the brink—but also
suggests two common elements. The first
lesson is the importance of building inclusive-enough coalitions and identifying the
signals and commitment mechanisms2 that
can galvanize support for change. Second,
national reformers have delivered results on
the ground to build confidence in citizen
security, justice, and economic prospects.

In both elements, successful transitions
made astute use of supplemental capacity
beyond government: from the private sector, from traditional institutions, and from
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs).
This chapter considers what makes coalitions “inclusive-enough” and the signals,
commitment mechanisms, and early results
that can help achieve momentum for later
institutional transformation.3
These pathways away from violence have
been analyzed in the literature. Stedman and
Nilsson suggest that pacts to end violence
need not be all-inclusive—they can promote
peace if they are minimally inclusive at the beginning.4 Fearon, Keefer, Azam and Mesnard
examine why some conflicts may be more
intractable because of distrust and how commitment mechanisms (ways to ensure that
promises will be difficult to reverse) can be
designed to solve those problems; examples
include peace agreements, power-sharing arrangements, and security sector reform.5
Societies use these and other commitment mechanisms to suit conditions on the
ground. More important than the form of
these mechanisms is their adaptability to
changing conditions over the course of multiple transitions. The lessons explored in this
chapter build on this research through practical country examples and cross-country
lessons.

120

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

Inclusive-enough coalitions
This section looks at country experiences in
building “inclusive-enough” pacts for change;
different approaches to coalition-building at
national, subnational, and local levels; and
the guiding principles that emerge on what
is “inclusive-enough.” It considers the type
of immediate actions and signals on future
policy that have built support for change.

How inclusive is inclusive enough?
Action by national leaders during transitional moments can be decisive in preventing
violence. Two contrasting cases illustrate this
point. In Kenya, warnings of election-related
violence in 2007 led Kenyan groups and several foreign governments to offer support to
peace committees and other forms of mediation or violence prevention; leaders of the
various political factions refused them. 6 The
predicted violence following the announcement of the election results led to nearly
1,000 deaths and the displacement of 300,000
people. By contrast, the Ghanaian government took decisive action in 2003 to forestall
a potentially serious dispute over succession
rights between rival Dagomba clans in the
north. After national efforts failed to find
compromise between the feuding groups, the
government requested United Nations (UN)
assistance in designing confidence-building
interventions, including the facilitation of
government and civil society dialogue and
negotiations.7 That action defused the potential for violence, and the country avoided
a major conflict that could have undermined
the 2004 national elections.
Leadership is sometimes shared, and
sometimes dominated by individuals. That
was the case with Mali’s General Amadou
Toumani Touré, whose willingness to deal
differently with the Tuareg rebellion launched
a sustained tradition of democratic resolution.8 South Africa benefited both from the
exceptional personal leadership of President
Nelson Mandela and the depth of collective

leadership developed during decades of resistance in the African National Congress, the
Communist Party, and the civil society organizations of the United Democratic Front.
Transition opportunities have led to more
decisive action where leaders have built coalitions for change.9 Inclusive-enough approaches may be formal power-sharing arrangements, as with the government of the
Democratic Unionist Party and Sinn Féin in
Northern Ireland.10 Most frequently, the coalitions are informal, as with the Colombia
and Timor-Leste approaches described below.
Some successful experiences and challenges
in coalition-building in situations of political
and civil conflict include the following:
• Inclusive rather than exclusive approaches
can be important in preventing a recurrence of violence. Timor-Leste leadership
reached out in 2007 to other political parties and to entrepreneurs to help in reconstruction, involving independent figures
and those from other parties in government, and providing for local business involvement. This approach contrasted with
that taken in the period between independence in 2002 and renewed violence in
2006, when the ruling party engaged relatively little with civil society, the church, or
other domestic actors to build support for
its program.11
• In some situations, specific focus on building national and provincial support for
change simultaneously can be important.
In Aceh, Indonesia, which had experienced
a long and costly civil conflict, a careful
process of mediation involving the Free
Aceh Movement (Gerakan Aceh Merdeka
or GAM)—a rebel movement—and leadership and government leaders from the
province and from Jakarta secured a peace
agreement in 2005 that mobilized a broad
range of stakeholder support, as well as international engagement (feature 4).
• Inclusion strategies can change over time.
In Sierra Leone, the initial inclusion of the
Revolutionary United Front (RUF) in the

Restoring confidence: Moving away from the brink

1999 Lomé Agreement was subsequently
repudiated in 2000 as conditions changed
and following repeated abuses. Although
initial arrangements did not succeed, they
were nonetheless necessary to encourage
the RUF leaders to cease fighting. Having
the leaders in the capital also helped in
monitoring their activities once the arrangements collapsed.12
• Conversely, in Sudan, peace talks between
2000 and 2005 were held between a narrow group of leaders on both sides, with
both North and South continuing to face
internal divisions that were not managed
through a broadening of the coalition after
the peace agreement was signed in January
2005.13
Inclusive-enough coalition-building has
also been important in successful non-postconflict political transitions, as the following
examples demonstrate:
• The political transition in Chile in 1990
and onward involved heavily institutionalized political mechanisms to reach agreement in policy among the five political
parties of the “concertación democratica”;
outreach to labor and civil society; and
clear signals to business that responsible
economic management would be part of
the new direction. In Chile, as in other
middle-income country political transitions such as Indonesia, a delicate balancing approach was used to undertake security and justice reforms while maintaining
support from the military for change.14
• In South Africa, inclusive-enough coalition-building in the run-up to the 1994
election meant involving all political parties and civil society in discussions over
the country’s future, although the African
National Congress (ANC) maintained a
hierarchy where it led decision-making
among other ANC Alliance and Democratic Front members.
• The Colombian government mobilized
the military, civil service, business groups,

and civil society actors in 2003 to support
its democratic security policy. This process
excluded the FARC (Revolutionary Armed
Forces of Colombia), whose breaches of
the peace talk provisions from the late
1990s to 2002 created nationwide demand
for action against the kidnappings and violence. Government communication and
outreach bolstered popular confidence for
difficult military and police actions and
civil service reforms.15
• The Consultative Assembly (CA), established to draft a new constitution, was
the basis of Ghana’s inclusive-enough
coalition-building process during the
transition to multiparty democracy. The
260-member Consultative Assembly was
made up of 117 representatives from the
District and Metropolitan Assemblies, 121
representatives of various “established organizations” (that is, corporate groups)
and associations, and 22 government appointees. The Assembly, which contained
many opposition sympathizers, displayed
independence and drafted a constitution
that was approved in a referendum that
set the stage for an orderly nonviolent
transition.16
In diverse circumstances of negotiated
peace settlements, military victories, and political crises, leaders have often used broadbased governments to send a positive signal
on inclusion—but it is no simple matter.
Cabinets in developed countries not affected
by violence, where efficiency is a primary
concern, generally range from 15 to 20 appointments in each administration. But when
stability, rather than efficiency, drives the composition, cabinets are often larger, as in Kenya
and Zimbabwe.17 When fragmented decisionmaking is exacerbated by internal divisions,
the efficiency costs can be considerable.
The stresses that spur violence can be
rooted in provincial or local as well as national dynamics, and local coalitions can
be crucial in preventing violence. The links
made between central and provincial govern-

121

122

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

REFLECTIONS FROM ADVISORY COUNCIL MEMBERS: 2011 WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT
B OX 4 .1

“All politics is local.”
George Yeo, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Singapore; WDR Advisory Council Member
Successful eﬀorts must begin at the local level. Without
emphasis on local results, citizens lose conﬁdence in their
government’s ability to provide a better life. Actions to
restore security, create trust, generate employment, and
provide services in local communities lay the foundation for
national progress. It is not enough to deliver results in big

cities. In cases of ethnic and religious strife, where mutual insecurity can feed on itself, a local authority that is seen to be fair
and impartial by all groups is absolutely essential before the
process of healing and recovery can take place. This was Singapore’s experience when we had racial riots in the 1960s. A
trusted leader can make a decisive diﬀerence.

ments in Aceh (see feature 4) are one example, as are the conflict prevention approaches
in Ghana described above and attention to
the impartiality of local administration in
Singapore (box 4.1). Country lessons also
raise two developmental mechanisms to support local coalition building and strengthen
relations between the state and citizens at
the local level: first, where government provides resources directly to communities to
carry out development activities (through
community-driven development, or CDD),
and second, where communities do not necessarily control funds, but are active partners
in actions undertaken by others (local administrations, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), international partners) that
are implemented for their benefit.
Building coalitions at the local level—
where the state works with community leaders to combat violence—can be an important
part of responses to criminal violence as well
as political violence. Across Latin America,
approaches that work with local community
leaders and combine security and development initiatives have replaced the older,
security-only “mano duro” (iron fist) approaches. Higher-income countries have
used similar approaches, from community
policing in the United Kingdom or France
to building local alliances to combat drugtrafficking and gang activity in Los Angeles
(see box 4.2).
The private sector is also crucial for countries coping with and emerging from vio-

lence. While in the short run, recovery from
violence can be supported by external assistance or natural resource revenues, the path
to longer-term development is dependent
on a healthy private sector. Private sector activity often cuts across ethnic and religious
lines, where rules-based competition is the
cornerstone. Violence shortens the time horizons of consumers, producers, traders, and
policy makers. Outreach to the private sector can help build a sense of the long term,
which is critical for planning, investment in
the future, and sustainable growth.18 In the
Colombia, Chile, and Timor-Leste examples
above, reaching out to the private sector was
a crucial part of coalition building.19
The ability of leaders to govern and to
effect change also depends on a network
of civil society and informal institutions
and actors—and the interaction between
the state and informal institutions takes on
even greater significance in societies ravaged
by violence.20 Many nongovernment initiatives have helped contain or stop violence.21
The inclusion of civil society, informal, and
traditional institutions in inclusive-enough
coalitions helps in acquiring broader societal legitimacy and in ensuring that citizen
security, justice, and jobs reach all segments
of society. Community, traditional, and civil
society structures can also be crucial partners for the delivery of early results where
state reach and trust with violence-affected
communities is low. By drawing on nonstate
capacity, governments can “stretch” their

Restoring confidence: Moving away from the brink

B OX 4.2

Gang-related homicides in Los Angeles

In Los Angeles, gang and drug-related violence accounts for a large percentage of crime
(nearly 50 percent of homicides) and negatively aﬀects education, health, business and jobs,
housing prices, and the ability for families to enjoy parks and other leisure activities. While
gangs are not new to Los Angeles County, gang membership ballooned from negligible in
1970 to 70,000 to 100,000 30 years later. Almost 6,000 people died from gang violence
between 1995 and 2006, comparable to the civil war in Uganda over the same period,
where estimates of battle deaths between 1995 to 2006 range from 3,300 to 16,000, with a
best estimate of 7,500 (Uganda has more than twice the population of the Los Angeles
metropolitan area).22
After years of struggling to deal with gang-related violence, a team of experts recently
wrote, “In short, Los Angeles needs a Marshall Plan to end gang violence” (Advancement
Project 2007, 1). New initiatives aim to prevent violence before it escalates by funding and
training outreach workers who can mediate disputes, stop rumors, and engage with those
who cause violence (“shotcallers”). The strategy involves regular conﬁdence-building initiatives
through frequent consultations among key stakeholders, which can include reformed gang
members and community leaders. This outreach approach also involves multisectoral coordination (law enforcement oﬃcers conduct community visits accompanied by parole oﬃcers,
educators, child services, and representatives from other city departments as well as civil society) to develop relationships and trust between the community and law enforcement.
Sources: WDR team consultations with law enforcement and civil society and Brian Center (Executive
Director, A Better LA) in Los Angeles, August 2010; Advancement Project 2009; Uppsala/PRIO Armed
Conﬂict dataset (Lacina and Gleditsch 2005; Harbom and Wallensteen 2010); Los Angeles Almanac
(Thornton and others 2011).
Note: The challenges of measuring progress in these environments and scaling up successes are not
dissimilar from those discussed in the rest of this Report. So-called outreach models are in their early
stages of implementation in Los Angeles and have not been fully integrated into Los Angeles Police
Department or County Sheriﬀ practice.

ability to deliver public goods and signal an
inclusive partnership between the state and
other parts of society.
Informal patronage networks also mediate the effects of attempts to prevent violence
in many fragile situations: these networks can
undermine the institutional change needed
to develop resilience to violence in the long
run, but in the short term there is often little
to replace them. Country lessons indicate
a balance between the credibility of initial
coalition-building efforts—which the involvement of individuals and groups known
to be corrupt can undermine—and the need
to dismantle patronage systems over time as
institutional strength builds. Chapter 5 discusses lessons on sequencing anti-corruption
efforts in fragile situations.
The participation of women in political
reform can help to broaden initial coalitions
to serve wider groups of citizens. As peace negotiations between the Liberian government

of Charles Taylor and rebel groups in 2003
were under way, the Liberian Women’s Mass
Action for Peace movement mobilized thousands of supporters in Liberia and Ghana,
where the talks were being held, and barricaded delegates in meeting rooms, prompting
international mediators to set deadlines and
secure agreements.23 In Papua New Guinea/
Bougainville, women’s delegations consulted
with the Bougainville Revolutionary Army to
end the war, held initiatives to create peace
areas, and convened and led peace talks.24
Southern Sudanese women in the New Sudan
Council of Churches organized the Wunlit
tribal summit in 1999 to bring an end to hostilities between the Dinka and Nuer peoples.
The Wunlit Covenant resulted in an agreement to share rights to water, fishing, and
grazing land, which had been key points of
disagreement.25 In Latin America, women’s
groups have been active on human rights
abuses; one of the most well known is Las

123

124

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

Madres de la Plaza—a group of mothers
who began nonviolent demonstrations in
1977, demanding information from the Argentinean government on the whereabouts of
their “disappeared” children during the years
known as the Dirty War (1976–83).26
An essential, yet often underrated, ingredient in successful transitions from violence
is proactive communication by the government to build public understanding and
support. Successful coalitions have usually
managed to “capture the narrative”—that
is, to articulate a compelling vision of hope,
develop a sense of shared identity, generate
broad popular buy-in, and mobilize citizens
even when the vision entails some shortterm sacrifices for their supporters. Common to successful leadership, whether individual or collective, is this ability to redefine
citizen and elite expectations, to move them
beyond negative frames of reference, and to
transform public policies and institutions in
ways that will enable the state to address immediate and long-term sources of discord.
Citizens who lack credible information about progress made and challenges
ahead will likely attribute the lack of visible improvements to a lack of political will,
and they can lose trust in—and even turn
against—those they believed or elected.27 An
inclusive public dialogue requires capacity
and resources, not just of state institutions or
of civil society, but also of the media, which
can play an important role in ensuring public
accountability and act as a citizen voice. Experience indicates this capacity needs to be
developed in a coordinated manner—media
development should focus not only on basic
skills and journalistic training but also on
establishing of professional standards and
an enabling regulatory environment for the
media. Governments, meanwhile, need to
be endowed with appropriate outreach and
communication capacity.
How inclusive is inclusive-enough? It may
seem that conflict can only be prevented
when all parts of society work together to set
the country on a new path. This is correct in
one sense: successful efforts to prevent and

recover from violence have built alliances.
But as illustrated above, they have not necessarily included all groups within society.
Four key lessons on what makes for
inclusive-enough coalitions are as follows:
• Groups may legitimately be excluded
where there is an evolving belief among the
population that they have sacrificed their
right to participate due to past abuses.
• Including groups that bring political
legitimacy and financial and technical resources and will continue to press for
deeper institutional transformation—such
as business, labor, women’s, or other civil
society groups—is valuable, but there may
be a hierarchy of decision making at the
beginning, with parties present at the table
but deferring on some decisions to political leadership.
• There can be trade-offs between wide
inclusiveness and the efficiency of subsequent state decision-making, as when
governments with very large numbers of
ministries are created.
• Inclusion strategies can change over time
as it becomes possible to marginalize consistently abusive groups.

Signals and commitment mechanisms
In the early stages of transition, gaining
the confidence of these stakeholder groups
often requires policies that signal a break
from the past and instill trust that the new
directions will not be reversed. Signaling a
break from the past can include immediate
actions or announcement of future actions.
Committing to the future requires assuring
stakeholders—who may be skeptical on the
basis of broken promises in the past—that
changes will be difficult to reverse. The signals used by countries that successfully made
the initial transition away from the brink involved combined actions across the securityeconomic or political-economic domains.
The most powerful signals show that leaders are not prisoners of anti-reform, anti-

Restoring confidence: Moving away from the brink

compromise forces among their own supporters. Strategic appointments can be a vital
signal of future intent. The first president
elected after the Nicaraguan peace agreement retained the chief of staff of the army
in his position. That sent a strong reassuring signal to the defeated opposition that she
would not use an electoral victory to resume
military campaigns.28 In Mozambique, the
former RENAMO (Mozambican National
Resistance, the former rebel movement that
is now an opposition party) supreme commander was appointed deputy chief-of-staff
of the Mozambican Defense Force, and seven
RENAMO members were appointed to the
national electoral commission (alongside 10
government representatives).29
In the security sector, signals from governments or opposition armed movements
have demonstrated what the security forces
will not do—as much as what they will do.
The Mozambique government unilaterally
announced the start of troop confinement
as part of the demobilization. This created
enough trust for RENAMO to announce its
own steps toward demobilization.30
In Iraq, the “surge” to restore order in
2006–07 was preceded by a decision to withdraw the police, who were accused of taking
factional sides in the violence, from insecure
urban areas and to deploy the army instead.
While this created longer-term challenges
of returning the army to its typical role and
building up the civilian police, it did restore
civilian confidence. 31 Strong signals can also
be sent by rebel movements: the decision by
Xanana Gusmão in 1999 to confine to barracks the Timorese resistance troops, Falintil,
even in the face of widespread destruction in
the country, avoided a repeat of the 1975 descent into civil war.32
Signals on political reform are crucial
where political exclusion was a central factor
in motivating violence or civil protests. These
may include rapid action toward elections or
lay out a series of preparatory steps—as with
the transitional executive bodies and constitutional reform processes in South Africa,
supported by civic education and national

and local action to maintain security during
the political process through the National
Peace Accords (box 3.9). Where elections
will take place quickly, indicating that these
are not an end but a step toward institutional
transformation (as described in the inputs
by Lakhdar Brahimi and Nitin Desai in box
5.11) is important. The creation of commitment mechanisms to ensure that announcements on political reforms will be honored
in their implementation—such as robustly
independent electoral commissions, supplemented where useful by regional or international technical and monitoring capacity—
can help to build trust.
Signaling early intent to redress human
rights violations is also possible even when
the processes take time. Countries emerging from severe violence often carry legacies of human rights violations and trauma
that shatter social norms or break the social
contract between state and citizen.33 Often
poor and marginalized communities bear
the brunt of predatory actions by state and
nonstate actors, and tackling such evident
injustices can be a high priority in a government attempt to break with the past, while
starting to rebuild the institutions of the formal justice system.
With trust so important for stabilization
and recovery, some societies have signaled
early commitments to transitional justice.
These efforts include steps leading to truth
commissions, reparations programs for victims, and counter-impunity initiatives that
may involve prosecuting the worst abusers
and vetting security forces.34 Such initiatives
send powerful signals about the commitment of the new government to the rule of
law. Even if institutional or political factors
do not allow for full redress, early gathering
of evidence of human rights violations and
assisting victims can signal serious intent to
overcome legacies of impunity and rights
violations at both the community and national level. These approaches have also been
tried with some success in middle-income
countries making a transition from military
rule. The state governments in Brazil pro-

125

126

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

vided early economic compensation to some
victims of political violence during the country’s military dictatorship, prompting a process of truth-telling and public discussion of
past crimes.35
Given the link between corruption and
violence, judicious, rapid transparency and
anti-corruption measures can help to restore
stakeholder and citizen confidence. In some
countries, legacies of corruption leave heavy
resentment and mistrust, which must be ad-

BOX 4.3

dressed for the new political arrangements to
have credibility. In Liberia, government corruption was widely viewed as a major motivator for the rebellion of 1980, launching
Liberia’s long-running sequence of internal
wars, temporary transitional governments,
coups, and further wars. One of President
Ellen Johnson Sirleaf’s first and most popular
actions was to fire two prominent figures on
corruption charges and maintain tight controls over corruption (box 4.3). The power

Signals and commitments for economic management: GEMAP in Liberia

Types of violence: Civil conﬂict, political violence, criminal and gang-related violence, traﬃcking
Transition opportunity: Moderate space for change, presidential elections, strong international support

Key stakeholders: Government needed to restore conﬁdence
of opposition parties and civil society, neighboring countries
and regional institutions, donors and investors

Key stresses: Long history of violence, trauma, grievances and
mistrust, corruption, youth unemployment

Institutional challenges: Extreme corruption and low domestic
revenues, undermining political governance and constraining
eﬀorts to increase government capacity

Following the end of the 14-year Liberian civil war in 2003, the international community became increasingly concerned about the
mismanagement and corruption under the National Transitional Government of Liberia (NTGL). Corruption was not just an economic
concern: political and army reactions to the extensive corruption of the Tolbert government have been widely cited as a trigger for
the coup that sparked Liberia’s ﬁrst civil war in 1989, and the theft of national resources continued to ﬁnance violent groups. The
extreme corruption prevented improvements in government capacity by constraining national revenues and diverting external
resources.
After intense negotiations, diplomatic pressure, and the threat of an embargo on external assistance, the NTGL and Liberia’s international partners agreed to the Governance and Economic Management Assistance Program (GEMAP). The AU (African Union) and
ECOWAS (Economic Community of West African States) led discussions with the NTGL, and the UN Security Council welcomed GEMAP
in Resolution 1626 of September 19, 2005. GEMAP’s aim was to improve revenue collection, budgeting, and expenditure management;
upgrade procurement practices; strengthen transparency over concessions of national resources; control corruption; and build government capacity.
A deﬁning feature of GEMAP is the use of international experts with co-signatory authority in the operations of ministries and
state-owned enterprises, the review of concessions and contracts (including timber and diamonds), and the establishment of an
oversight mechanism, the Economic Governance Steering Committee (EGSC), to guide and monitor GEMAP implementation. The EGSC
is a mechanism of shared accountability, chaired by President Johnson Sirleaf and the American Ambassador as the deputy chair.
GEMAP has helped bring some rapid improvements and was an appropriate response to Liberia’s particular mix of stresses, stakeholders, and institutional challenges at the time. Revenues increased from US$84.5 million in 2005–06 to a projected US$347 million in
2010–11, and Liberia’s ranking on the Transparency International Corruption Perceptions Index climbed from 150 to 97 between 2007
and 2009.
GEMAP, however, has also ignited debate over the management role of expatriates. President Johnson Sirleaf told the UN Security
Council that “a major deﬁciency still exists as with other technical assistance programs—the lack of capacity development for sustainability. This fault has contributed to tensions between foreign and local experts, thereby raising issues of ownership and sovereignty.”36
A lesson from GEMAP is to look closely at phasing the handover of responsibilities over time and manage local understanding and
support.
Sources: AllAfrica 2009; Andersen 2010; Atkinson 2008; Bøås 2009; Dwan and Bailey 2006; Jahr 2010; Government of the Republic of Liberia
Executive Mansion 2009.

Restoring confidence: Moving away from the brink

and enduring effect of such a signal rests on
informing citizens that the leader can reject
supporters who might prefer to renege on
commitments to citizens or the opposition.
(Chapters 6 addresses temporary external
support to justice systems, especially for redressing crimes committed during episodes
of violence.)
Successful early stabilization efforts
have often featured greater transparency in
decision-making and budgeting to improve
trust between citizens and the state. The new
government of Timor-Leste broke with tradition in 2008 when it broadcast the budget debate in its entirety on radio and television.37
Open consultations over policy in Chile and
public inputs to appointment confirmation
processes in Argentina created confidence
that new directions would not be reversed.
Other governments have pursued greater
transparency at the grassroots. In the early
1990s in Uganda, concerns arose over the
apparent disparity between budget allocations and actual spending on education.
This served as an impetus for the first
Public Expenditure Tracking Survey. The
initial survey of 250 government-run primary schools in 1991–95 revealed that only
13 percent of the education funds from the
central government went to the schools, with
the remaining 87 percent used for personal
gain or non-education purposes. Later surveys, implemented after the first was made
public, showed that the flow of funds to
schools increased to around 80–90 percent
in 1999–2000. The expenditure tracking system boosted citizen and donor confidence in
the aftermath of the civil war. However, the
system has since weakened.38
Wealth-sharing can generate support and
confidence in stable situations and in transitions. Most countries rich in natural resources
share smaller or larger amounts of the revenues from extraction with subnational governments (as in Brazil, Mexico, and Nigeria).
Such wealth-sharing arrangements are often
vital when civil wars have been fueled by natural resources or have featured disputes over

natural resource control. The arrangements
for sharing oil revenues in Sudan are an essential aspect of the Comprehensive Peace
Agreement of 2005 (an Agreement on Wealth
Sharing, Chapter III of the CPA, was signed in
early 2004). In Pakistan the government used
a budgetary provision to signal greater attention to areas of growing insecurity (box 4.4).
Commitments were built into these agreements by passing them into law—and, in Sudan, through limited third-party monitoring.
Social cohesion policies are another strong
signal that helps create a sense of fairness and
social justice across population groups. Such
policies foster the participation of hitherto
excluded groups or areas in economic and
political decision-making, enabling them
to benefit from development assistance and
ensuring that civil service recruitment is
nondiscriminatory. To signify the state’s concern for the victims of violence or those previously excluded from state services, Rwanda
provided housing support and Timor-Leste
cash transfer payments for internally displaced persons.
Signals can involve removing or amending laws perceived as unjust and discriminatory—such as abolishing apartheid laws in
South Africa and, in Pakistan, the discussion
over the Frontier Crimes Regulation, which
applies a legal regime to the federally administered tribal areas differing from the rest of
Pakistan.
In pursuing social cohesion policies, another signal is restoring public services to the
middle class, who may be crucial for political
support for change. For example, increasing
social investments in Chile in the 1990s was
balanced by restitution of civil service pensions and appointments;39 sunset clauses for
white civil servants in South Africa balanced
fast action on maternal and child health care
for the poorest communities.40 Policies aimed
at tangible results for these groups are often
not pro-poor, and hence are often difficult
for development practitioners to agree on as
priorities. But they can be part of the political
economy of successful change.41

127

128

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

BOX 4.4

Pakistan: Using the budget to signal change

Types of violence: Subnational, political, cross-border, traﬃcking, ideological including transnational
Transition opportunity: Limited space for change following
accession of new government in 2008 and military campaign of
2009 in Swat valley

Key stakeholders: Federal, regional, and local government
(including tribal areas); excluded groups; neighboring countries;
international partners; national and transnational militant groups

Key stresses: Cross-border conﬂict spillovers; transnational
terrorism; regional competition; corruption; political and social
inequality; income and asset inequality; regional inequities;
youth unemployment; tensions over natural resource wealthsharing in peripheral regions

Institutional challenges: Accountability and capacity
constraints in public administration; security, judicial, and
political institutions

Late in 2009, the agreement by Pakistan’s federal and provincial
government leaders to the Seventh National Finance Commission Award was hailed as a “major achievement and a positive
event for those who believe that the future of a vibrant Pakistan
lies in a democratic federation.”42
In Pakistan, grievances over inequity in revenue-sharing go
back a long time and have been part of a broader set of tensions
between regions within Pakistan. They have been exacerbated
by debates over the distribution of political power and, more
recently, over the independence of institutions of accountability,
notably the judiciary. All this in a context where Pakistan faces
terrorist threats, subnational tensions, separatist movements,
regional insecurity, and severe economic inequality.
Attempts to set in place a new agreement had failed for 17
years. As part of the 2009 ﬁve-year public ﬁnance award, the fed-

eral government sacriﬁced part of its share of the national divisible pool of resources in favor of the provinces. While all provinces will receive an increase in resources, two of them also
accepted a reduction in their shares to provide more resources
to Balochistan and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Provinces—which were
both aﬀected by internal conﬂict and the war in Afghanistan.
The award was also an important part of eﬀorts to assuage separatist sentiments in Balochistan and to settle more than 30 years
of disputes between Sindh and Punjab about the distribution of
water. On its own, however, the award does not address local
governance and institutional challenges. The decline of public
revenues and the impact of the ﬂoods of 2010 have also constrained the overall potential for the allocation and transfer of
funds, and legal and resource challenges remain constraints to
implementation.

Source: Porter, Andrews, and Wescott 2010.

Delivering early results
Country lessons show that inclusive-enough
coalitions have to be complemented by tangible results to restore confidence in national
institutions. Results on the ground build
confidence for three reasons. First, they are
concrete indicators of a government’s good
intentions toward citizens. Second, they
demonstrate the government’s ability to deliver on its promises. Third, they build confidence by indicating that leaders are able to
withstand pressure from their own supporters to play a “winner take all” game and that
they instead provide benefits to all citizens.
This confidence-building requires listening to popular expectations, setting realistic
priorities for what can be delivered, drawing
on nongovernment capacity to deliver, and
communicating results to the population.
This section identifies various practical ways

to deliver results to violence-affected populations. (Chapter 5 then presents examples
of possible interventions across the security,
justice, and jobs spectrum for both the immediate and longer term.)
Perception surveys in Africa and Latin
America indicate that employment and security are people’s most pressing problems.43
Electricity, literally the most “visible” of all
results, can be critical for progress in security and job creation. In many countries, a
perception of increased justice for excluded
populations may come about not only
through action in the justice sector per se
but also through broader social justice that
includes greater provision of health, education, or social protection. The specific shortterm results most important for restoring
confidence will depend on an assessment of
the priorities of the population and the preferences of key stakeholder groups (box 4.5).

Restoring confidence: Moving away from the brink

REFLECTIONS FROM ADVISORY COUNCIL MEMBERS: 2011 WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT
B OX 4 . 5

Building early confidence in Haiti—Challenges and reflections
Carlos Alberto Dos Santos Cruz, Lt General, Brazilian Army; former Force Commander of the United
Nations Peacekeeping Mission in Haiti; WDR Advisory Council Member
During my time as UN force commander in Haiti, the mission faced many challenges. In the very beginning, the biggest one was how to balance demands for security and
development.
From the start, it was made clear that the primary goal
of the UN force was to protect and serve the interests of the
citizens. At the same time, troops were encouraged to act
with determination against individuals and groups responsible for violence. This meant good intelligence work followed, when necessary, by robust operations using force if
necessary. At the same time, troops tried to show that they
were respectful and supportive of the population.
Institutions and individuals are not alone in such circumstances, and they must work with others in the international
and nongovernment communities and encourage them
to set aside parochial mindsets and behaviors. If there is
not success in this, there is risk of wasting lots of time talking on coordination and cooperation without improving
performance.
Once the environment is safe, it is important to focus on
delivering basic services, creating jobs, and improving infrastructure. At that time, as soon as the mission defeated the
street gangs, the peacekeeping forces began to deliver
potable water each day and, working with local leaders, to
help with small-scale projects like renovating community
centers and cleaning schools. Military troops also worked
with NGOs to clear canals and distribute food, mattresses
and stoves.
In all this, there was careful concern to not waste scarce
funds on projects ill-suited to local conditions. Indeed, making the most of ﬁnancial resources was always uppermost in
the mind of the military contingent. It was important to
guard against the very human desire to not act quickly
unless it is sustainable in the longer term. For instance, a

What is the right balance of quick,
visible results and longer-term
institution-building?
Although tangible results are needed in the
short term, these will be insufficient to prevent violence recurring without simultaneous steps toward transforming institutions
(see chapter 5). Striking a balance requires
an astute reading of available capacity and
tradeoffs. WDR consultations in several

generator was provided to a small ﬁshing community to use in
the ﬁsh market. It seemed like a good idea at the time, but the
locals were not used to sharing the costs for fuel or maintenance, and very soon the generator was broken.
The performance of local institutions is fundamental. Without strong political leadership, reasonable laws, and a judicial
system that works, eﬀorts will be in vain. Indeed, many actions
may actually make matters worse. In Cité Soleil, after many
years without either a courthouse or police headquarters, one
of the aid agencies rebuilt the courthouse and military troops
started patrolling jointly with the national police. Pretty soon
things started to improve as the police gradually won the trust
of the local people.
It was amazing to watch long lines of citizens in front of the
courthouse waiting to resolve their problems through the
law and to see the growing numbers who went to the commissariat to ask for help from the police. People know when
someone is trying to help and they respond positively. In Haiti,
after just a few months, they began to bring to the UN troops
valuable intelligence, to hand in weapons, and to deal with
criminals and the perpetrators of violence. They also began
to participate in community eﬀorts and start businesses. People moved back into their homes, rebuilt the markets, and
thronged previously abandoned streets. The experience in
Haiti convinced me that if national leaders, with the right kind
of support from the international institutions, focus on a few
basic building blocks, citizens themselves will ﬁx the problems
and rebuild their countries.
WDR note: Haiti is often referred to as a “post-conﬂict” country, but
this is inaccurate. Haiti did experience civil uprisings against the
autocratic Duvalier regime; Jean-Claude (“Baby Doc”) Duvalier ﬂed
the country in 1986. Since that time, Haiti has experienced a succession of military rule, ﬂawed elections, coups, democratic elections, militia activity, and gang violence.

countries highlighted the need for governments to demonstrate at least two to three
visible results locally in the first year following a new pact for change, and ideally one
or two in the first months (box 4.6). Results
need to be repeated at regular intervals,
however, to maintain momentum and citizen
confidence.
Combined political, security, and developmental capacities are often needed to
deliver confidence-building results quickly

129

130

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

B OX 4.6

Only a few visible results are needed to restore confidence: Examples from civil war,
organized criminal, and subnational violence

Liberia
Types of violence: Civil conﬂict, political violence, criminal and gang-related violence, traﬃcking
Transition opportunity: Moderate space for change, presidential elections, strong international support

Key stakeholders: Government needed to restore conﬁdence
of opposition parties and civil society, neighboring countries and
regional institutions, donors and investors

Key stresses: Long history of violence, trauma, grievances and
mistrust, corruption, youth unemployment

Institutional challenges: Corruption and low domestic
revenues, undermining political governance and constraining
eﬀorts to increase government capacity

The Liberian government capitalized on a well-managed donor program and a long-standing dearth of public-spirited government to
visibly deliver public goods, restoring conﬁdence in government. The key was to be speciﬁc about what was promised—restoring electricity in Monrovia in a year, for example—and to make sure that the government actually delivered what it had promised. Tornorlah
Varpilah, Liberian Deputy Minister of Health, told the WDR team that Liberia took some immediate actions to satisfy public opinion.
The ﬁrst was to guarantee peace and security using UN forces. Then the President took action to provide free primary education, free
primary health care, and electricity in the capital city. Those interventions helped build conﬁdence in the government.44 Simultaneously, the government worked to improve capacity in the public ﬁnance and justice systems for the longer term.

Colombia
Types of violence: Civil conﬂict, traﬃcking, criminal and gang-related violence
Transition opportunity: Preventive action in the face of rising
criminality and failed peace talks

Key stakeholders: Government, armed groups, citizens, civil
society, regional, international partners

Key stresses: Legacies of violence, presence of criminal
networks and drug production/traﬃcking, perceived social and
economic deprivation, natural resource wealth

Institutional challenges: Lack of reach of state; accountability
challenges

In 2002, the government made restoring security a top priority and deﬁned a set of fairly narrow targets for violence-aﬀected areas:
restoring safe transit by deploying military resources to protect the main road network and sponsoring convoys of private vehicles that
allowed many Colombians to travel between major cities in safety for the ﬁrst time in years; reducing homicides and kidnappings;
restoring social services to the national average; and improving trust in the state. Meetings around the country during the electoral
campaign and a review of the strengths and weaknesses of past eﬀorts informed selection of these targets. A review of the previous
Politica Nacional de Rehabilitación (PNR)45 program, for example, indicated that it had spread its eﬀorts too thinly across diﬀerent
regions, so the new government chose a smaller number of violence-aﬀected areas. It also drew on wider capacities to execute the
program, including U.S. support for security-sector capacity-building and the engagement of Colombian NGOs and other donors in
social programs in violence-aﬀected rural areas. Frequent perception surveys of citizens kept the government up-to-date on progress.

Pakistan
Types of violence: Subnational, political, cross-border, traﬃcking, ideological, including transnational
Transition opportunity: Limited space for change following
accession of new government in 2008 and 2009 military
campaign in Swat valley

Key stakeholders: National, regional, and local government
(including tribal areas), excluded groups; neighboring countries;
international partners; national and transnational militant groups

Key stresses: Cross-border conﬂict spillovers, transnational
terrorism, regional competition, corruption; political, social,
income, and asset inequality; regional inequities; youth
unemployment; tensions over natural resource wealth sharing in
peripheral regions

Institutional challenges: Accountability and capacity
constraints in public administration, security, judicial, and
political institutions

Restoring confidence: Moving away from the brink

B OX 4.6

(continued)

Following the Pakistan government’s 2009 military oﬀensive to drive militants from the Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA) and
the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province (KP; formerly the Northwest-Frontier Province), the government—with the World Bank, Asian Development Bank, UN, and European Union—undertook an assessment to address needs and understand the factors underlying violence.
In addition to traditional analyses of economic and social data, the assessment involved a crisis analysis and consultations with more
than 1,000 representatives of communities from FATA and KP. Focus group discussions were also held by local NGOs and women’s
groups. The primary issues were jobs and justice system reform, including the country’s overall legal framework (diﬀerent in FATA from
the rest of Pakistan) and the resolution of land and family disputes. The exercise highlighted the danger of overpromising: initial plans
did not take capacity into account, resulting in unrealistic timelines. Since the assessment, Pakistan has faced the even more immediate
challenges of the devastating humanitarian disaster caused by the ﬂoods in August 2010. But the assessment still gives a detailed picture of citizen priorities.
Sources: Baily and Hoskins 2007; McCandless 2008; World Bank and ADB 2010; WDR team consultation with national leaders from fragile and
conﬂict-aﬀected countries in Berlin, 2009; WDR team consultation with government oﬃcials, representatives from civil society organizations,
and security personnel in Colombia and Pakistan, 2010; Arboleda 2010; Centro de Coordinación de Acción Integral 2010.

and initiate cross-sectoral institutional transformations. Governments have used tools
associated with one domain of action (security, justice, economic) to achieve goals in
another. Navigating transitions has involved a
clear focus on the stresses that drive violence
and on designing programs to mitigate them.
This implies an interdisciplinary approach to
strategy based not on sectoral programs and
outcomes but on balancing security, justice,
and economic opportunity (box 4.7).

How can results be delivered when
states face a legacy of weak capacity
and legitimacy?
Governments that have restored confidence
of stakeholders and citizens have typically
mobilized nonstate actors to deliver results
rather than doing everything themselves.46
Drawing on “supplementary capacity” has
meant tapping into both local nonstate structures (communities and community organizations, traditional institutions of justice, the
domestic private sector, NGOs) and external
assistance (regional organizations, international donors, the international private sector; see chapter 6).
Governments are often concerned that
drawing in NGO, private sector, or community capacity will take the credit away from

the government, or that it will be difficult
to transform these modes of delivery farther down the line when state institutional capacity has increased. It is indeed critical that
nongovernmental programs, particularly international programs, give appropriate, visible
attributions of credit to national institutions.
Development programs stamped with the
logo of international institutions do not build
trust in national institutions. Yet nongovernmental mechanisms can be used to boost
confidence in government responsiveness to
its citizens, as box 4.8 on Afghanistan’s National Solidarity Program indicates. Similarly,
the involvement of NGOs under government
coordination in Afghanistan and Timor-Leste
(see chapter 8) increased the perception of
government effectiveness in the health sector.
Community-driven development (CDD)
approaches have been applied in varied contexts. While such programs alone cannot
transform the security, justice, or economic
dynamics in violent settings, their use is a
good indicator of the range of purposes they
can serve and the relative ease of adapting
their design to different needs.47 Attributes
such as participatory planning and decisionmaking, cooperation between local authorities and the committees selected by community members for the purpose of a CDD
program, and community control of funds

131

132

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

BOX 4.7

Different sectors, core goals

National programs (sometimes with international support) have used tools from one “sector” to meet goals in another. These
approaches can be eﬀective in a variety of situations—in countries recovering from civil war and in societies aﬀected by drug-related
violence, ranging from low to middle income.
Justice and inclusion goal—Security intervention. In Burundi, a key part in the Arusha peace process that stabilized the long-running
civil war was the creation in 2004 of a new national army, the Force de Défense Nationale, in which the Hutu ethnic group represented
40 percent of the oﬃcer corps. This was important for the Hutu, who account for more than 80 percent of the population but had long
been excluded from the military and had suﬀered from military actions against them as far back as 1972.
Justice and inclusion goal—Economic intervention. Jamaica’s inner cities have been at the center of the country’s crime and violence
problem, which, coupled with growing poverty, has further exacerbated social fragmentation and the weakness of civic organizing in
inner-city communities. With donor support, the government launched a program to provide inner-city community infrastructure and
services for the poor in 2006, which includes measures to promote short-term conﬂict mitigation and resolution, as well as mediumterm social prevention and capacity enhancement interventions.
Security goal—Economic intervention. In Mozambique, the civilian population was caught up in successive military oﬀensives. During
Mozambique’s transition, joint international-national eﬀorts to provide assistance and sustainable resettlement to both former combatants and the internally displaced eased the potential tension that postwar population shifts and a lack of livelihood opportunities
might otherwise have caused.
Security goal—Multisectoral intervention. To address rising urban violence in Cali, Colombia, the DESEPAZ program (a Spanish acronym for development, security, and peace) integrated employment and microenterprise programs for youth, urban upgrading, and primary education alongside security interventions. The program was also noteworthy for its organizers’ understanding of crime: because
most homicides occurred on weekends, holidays, and at night, selling alcohol and carrying guns at those times were banned. A 30 percent decline in homicides in 1994–97 is attributed directly to the program.
Economic goal—Justice and inclusion intervention. After early eﬀorts to implement the Dayton Accords in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
international monitors found through interviews with business persons that trade between Bosnian, Croat, and Serb majority regions
was substantially aﬀected by ethnically denominated license plates. The Oﬃce of the High Representative mandated that nonethnic
license plates be issued to all cars in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and within weeks of this initiative, traﬃc and trade had surged.
Economic goal—Security intervention. After the establishment of the UN Interim Mission in Kosovo in June 1999, UN administrators
observed that trade between Kosovo and its neighbors was depressed. Insecurity on the major highways from Pristina to border crossings was identiﬁed as an obstacle, so NATO’s KFOR troops were deployed to provide security along major highways and transit points.
Exports rose from €27.6 million in 2002 to €297 million in 2010, and imports from €854.8 million to €2.1 billion.
Economic goal—Security intervention. In Liberia, partnership between the UN peacekeeping mission, the United Nations Development Programme, and the World Bank maintained the country’s degraded roads, so that parts of the country were no longer cut oﬀ
from the capital during the rainy season, with a consequent boost in conﬁdence.
Sources: Roque and others 2010; Economist Intelligence Unit 2008a; International Crisis Group 2007; Igreja and Dias-Lambranca 2008; Villaveces
and others 2000; World Bank 1999b, 2006e; Cousens and Harland 2006; Statistical Oﬃce of Kosovo 2010; Chesterman 2004; Giovine and others
2010.

mean the programs can signal a change in
the attitude of the state to communities, even
before physical projects are completed. They
can thereby enhance state-society relations,
increase citizen trust in institutions, and contribute to longer-term institution building
(box 4.8). Experience from a range of applications48 suggests that CDD programs can extend the state’s reach, especially in areas from
which it has been absent during a conflict; re-

construct social capital and strengthen social
cohesion;49 signal inclusion of marginalized
groups (such as women and youth); and contribute to decentralization, either by design
or through adaptations over time.
The importance of community engagement in local-level interventions can be illustrated by psychosocial support programs.
Political and criminal violence alike can
cause significant psychological and social

133

Restoring confidence: Moving away from the brink

B OX 4.8

Community-driven development strengthens state-society relations in Afghanistan

Types of violence: Intergroup, ethnic, and political violence; organized crime and traﬃcking; cross-border; transnational ideological
Transition opportunity: Initial large space for change: Bonn
Accord, loya jirga, presidential, parliamentary and provincial elections, national development budget

Key stakeholders: National and local government, security
forces, community leaders, civil society groups, citizens, international partners, transnational militant groups

Key stresses: Legacies of violence and trauma, transnational
terrorism, criminal networks, low incomes, youth unemployment,
corruption, gender discrimination

Institutional challenges: Severe accountability and capacity
constraints in public administration, security, judicial, and political institutions

Afghanistan, one of the world’s poorest countries, has experienced a near continuous period of invasion and occupation, civil war, and
oppression since the late 1970s. Between the overthrow of President Daoud before the Soviet invasion in 1979 and the Bonn Accord in
2002, the central government never had authority across the entire country. In addition to a long legacy of violence and poverty, the
country faces the daunting stresses of internal conﬂict, terrorism, ethnic tension, regional and global security stresses, and extensive
corruption.
Development under these conditions obviously is particularly challenging. However, the largest development program in Afghanistan, the National Solidarity Program (NSP), has registered some important successes. Since its inauguration in 2003, it has established
more than 22,500 community development councils across 361 districts in all 34 provinces and ﬁnanced more than 50,000 development projects. Through the democratically elected, gender-balanced councils, the program builds representative institutions for village
governance. Typical projects construct or improve critical infrastructure, such as communal drinking water facilities, irrigation canals,
local roads and bridges, and electrical generators, and oﬀer vocational training or literacy courses to villagers.
Economic evaluations show consistently high rates of return across all sectors (above 12 percent). A midterm evaluation by the University of York in the United Kingdom in 2005–06 found signiﬁcant evidence of greater public faith in the national government, along
with better community relations. The independently conducted Randomized Impact Evaluation of Phase-II of Afghanistan’s National
Solidarity Program in 201050 reinforced this ﬁnding through a large-sample quantitative assessment using randomized controlled trials
to compare outcomes in 250 villages covered by the NSP, with 250 villages not yet participating in the program. As part of the independent evaluation indicated above, a survey was conducted between October 2007 and May 2008 that showed that the simple process of electing councils and planning local investments increased villagers’ trust in all levels of government. Across the board, those in
villages participating in the NSP had more trust in government oﬃcials, showing that it is possible to markedly change perceptions of
state institutions through eﬀective local interventions.
Furthermore, a separate study by the Center for Strategic and International Studies, in Washington, DC, found that “the CDCs and
tribal shuras51 are seen as more responsive to Afghan needs than provincial governments and provincial councils, and in many cases are
the only sign of improvement villagers have seen in the past ﬁve years.”52
Sources: Beath and others 2010; Patel and Ross 2007; Selvarajan 2008; Brick 2008; Barakat 2006.

(box continues on next page)

suffering. Activities aimed at improving mental health and well-being of at-risk populations through psychosocial support have
proven to be more effective if communities
are involved. For example, evaluations of two
psychosocial programs in conflict-affected
regions of Indonesia from 1999 to 2001
found that the program that used a more holistic approach, engaging the wider community, had a greater impact than the one that
focused solely on trauma and used a medical
model.53 Similarly, engaging the community
in traditional healing and cleansing rituals for child soldiers in Angola, Liberia, and

northern Uganda was found to be mutually
empowering and more effective in reintegration than traditional psychological efforts—
the child soldiers felt “decontaminated” psychologically and the community was more
willing to accept them back socially.54
Traditional and community structures for
dispute resolution are also potential partners
in delivering early results—and it may be unwise to ignore them. In many fragile settings,
formal systems for the provision of justice
are weak or broken down. At the local level,
this breakdown opens gaps not only in the
core criminal justice system, but also in the

134

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

BOX 4.8

Community-driven development strengthens state-society relations in Afghanistan
(continued)

Do oﬃcials work for the beneﬁts of all the villagers?
80

80

+4*

70

71
+6*

% “yes” respondents

60

65

73

69
+7*

+5*
56

+5*

+4*
51

50

68

+5*

40
29

30

+3*

20
10
0
President

Provincial
governor

NSP village

District
administrator

Members of
parliament

Central
government
oﬃcials

Government
judges

Police

NGO workers

ISAF/U.S.
army soldiers

Non-NSP village

Source: Beath and others 2010.
Note: Villages that participated in the NSP program exhibit more trust in national and local governments. Participants responded that they believed
that national and local government oﬃ cials worked for the beneﬁt of all villagers signiﬁcantly more often in NSP villages than in other villages. Statistically signiﬁcant diﬀerences are shown with asterisked percentages above the Non-NSP Village bars. In the x-axis, the label ISAF is re ferring to the International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan.

regulation of land and family disputes. Such
gaps have led to popular frustration and have
opened opportunities to violent opposition
movements such as the Taliban in both Afghanistan and Pakistan, which have in some
areas of the country established a shadow
presence offering an alternative local dispute
resolution system.55 Gangs can play a similar
role in urban communities. The WDR Fafo
perception surveys in countries affected by
violence found that most respondents saw
traditional authorities as best placed to resolve land disputes, even though they also
believed that national or local state structures
should deliver other key governance functions.56 (Chapter 5 explores complementarities between traditional and formal systems
in justice reform.)
Civil society and faith-based actors can
also play an important role in service delivery
in many violent contexts when government
capacity and reach are limited. Many suc-

cessful initial transitions have drawn heavily on nongovernmental capacity associated
with the credibility of national institutions.
For instance, religious organizations run 81
percent of public primary schools and 77
percent of public secondary schools in the
Democratic Republic of Congo, through
a protocol-based school management system,57 which was what kept the schools running through the turbulent 1990s.58
Communities can also play a central role
in service provision (box 4.9). In many fragile environments, NGOs often ensure that
basic social services, such as health care, education, water, and sanitation, continue to be
provided to the population. Delivery modes
can include government agencies contracting out some social services to local NGOs,59
international NGOs working closely with local NGOs and community groups, and local
NGOs collaborating with community groups
in the absence of the government.

Restoring confidence: Moving away from the brink

One area that does not lend itself well to
partnership with nonstate actors to deliver
fast results is security. Nonstate actors can
be effective in supporting security efforts, for
instance in community policing aiming to
reduce crime through community partnership; joint programs against crime between
municipalities, civil society, and the private
sector; and community engagement to prevent and respond to gender-based violence
(see chapter 5). Going further and implicitly
ceding to others the state monopoly on security should be avoided. New research shows
that preexisting social networks, when used
by the state and competing elites, can stir up
conflict or perpetuate its damaging social
effects—as in the evolution of vigilantism
in Nigeria (box 4.10).60 While circumstances
clearly vary, the risks of such groups becoming predatory or difficult to demobilize are
considerable—not least because their methods of recruitment are not generally based
on merit, while their armed status can make
their social accountability tenuous. A similar
tradeoff exists with private security companies in internationally supported operations.
For instance, Coalition Forces in Iraq faced
problems in addressing abuses by private security companies entrusted with core state
security tasks.61
A related issue is the proliferation of private security companies around the globe.
They provide an array of functions, including monitoring, investigation services, and
bodyguards. Their growth is often attributed
to a widespread sense of insecurity and a
lack of trust in the police and the judiciary.
In Central America, the private security industry expanded dramatically in the 1990s
following the signing of peace agreements. In
El Salvador and Guatemala, private security
firms sometimes incorporated ex-combatants from civil wars, and throughout the region, many working for private security firms
are former government security personnel.
By 2008, legal and illegal private security
companies in Guatemala and Honduras employed around 120,000 and 60,000 guards,
respectively, with five to six private security

B OX 4 . 9

Nepal: Bringing others in—supplementing
government capacity in education

Types of violence: Civil conﬂict, interethnic and political violence,
criminal violence, and traﬃcking
Transition opportunities: Modest
space for change: “palace killings” and
stepped-up Maoist campaign in 2001

Key stakeholders: National and
local governments, civil society
groups, marginalized ethnic groups,
international partners, regional
neighbors

Key stresses: Legacies of violence and trauma; social, political,
and economic inequality; youth
unemployment; corruption; human
rights abuses; rising expectations of
formerly unrepresented

Institutional challenges: Feudal
structures and associated exclusion; accountability and capacity
constraints in public administration,
security, judicial, and political institutions; lack of inclusion of diﬀerent
groups

In 2001, recognizing that extensive local capacity to provide education already
on the ground had better success than the nationalized education system, the
government devolved responsibility for primary schooling back to school management committees through amendments to the Education Act. (The government relied exclusively on communities for the delivery of basic education until
1971.) The responsibilities of these committees included generating resources;
formulating budgets (using a combination of government incentive grants,
international aid, and local resources); and hiring teachers. Signiﬁcant local
resources were unlocked, with every rupee of government grants leveraging
1.5 rupees in community ﬁnancing.
Decentralizing teacher hiring also spurred accountability, as the government
froze the number of government-appointed teaching slots and introduced salary grants to allow communities to recruit teachers locally and hold them
accountable for classroom performance. Better school governance reduced
teacher absenteeism, improved learning achievements, increased community
donations, and boosted primary completion rates (from 42 percent in 1998 to 60
percent in 2003).
Even though the country was in active conﬂict, net enrollment rates in primary education increased from 69 to 92 percent between 1998 and 2008. Gender parity improved from 83 to 98 percent from 2003 to 2008. The impact on
girls, dalits, and janajati (Nepal’s lower-caste groups) children was also signiﬁcant: the rate of out-of-school children dropped from 50 percent in 2004 to 15
percent in 2008 for dalits, from 42 percent to 11 percent for girls, and from 44
percent to 11 percent for janajatis.
Sources: World Bank 2009e.

personnel for each police officer.62 A worrisome development, as noted by the president
of the Guatemala Chamber of Security, is the
severe shortage of trained security personnel, so the typical marginal company ends up
recruiting farmers from the interior of the
country and sending them to work with little
or no training.

135

136

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

BOX 4.10

Nigeria: Strengths and risks of nongovernment capacity in the security sector—
the Bakassi Boys

Types of violence: Widespread criminal and gang violence, vigilantism
Transition opportunity (missed): Rising insecurity and
criminality

Key stakeholders: Government, vigilante groups, perpetrators of
crime and their victims, citizens

Key stresses: Criminal networks, youth unemployment,
corruption

Institutional challenges: Low capacity and accountability in
police and judicial institutions

Vigilantism has often provided security in the absence of eﬀective state performance. While it may be seen initially as legitimate, it
presents tremendous risks to both the state and citizens, especially in protecting universal standards of due process (often the justice is
summary) or in separating petitioner, prosecutor, and judge (often a mob dynamic prevails).
Although Nigeria has had signiﬁcant income from oil revenue, the country remained stuck in low per capita income and saw little by
way of the development of eﬀective institutions. Throughout the 1990s and the early part of the 2000s, corruption and non-accountable
institutions remained deﬁning features of the Nigerian political landscape. Earlier episodes of separatist conﬂict (in Biafra) had not resurfaced, but oil-rich areas in the south had seen civil violence, and Nigeria had also experienced sectarian violence in its eastern provinces.
In the late 1990s and early 2000s, vigilantism was rampant in eastern Nigeria. In response to a rash of robberies and home invasions,
residents formed vigilante groups that patrolled and guarded entire neighborhoods at night. One such group was the Bakassi Boys,
who initially earned the support of politicians and the public because they reduced crime. In the words of one newspaper columnist:
“I am a living witness to the fact that for three years before the year 2000, in my part of Imo State, life was made unbearable by the
callous activities of armed bandits. They suddenly seemed to have so multiplied that anybody found outside his front door after dusk
was risking his or her life. Then suddenly things began to happen. Well-known hoodlums who were friends of the police gradually took
notice and either ﬂed or stayed at their peril. Home was becoming haven again, and evening parties and outside engagements returned to the community. It was such a great relief. Asked thereafter to choose between the Bakassi Boys and the police, the village
folks preferred the former.”63
Vigilante groups are celebrated in Nigerian popular culture—pictured in movies and on calendars—as appropriate defenders of the
public against criminals. Even mainstream observers of Nigerian society, including eminent political scientists like Peter Ekeh, saw the
Bakassi Boys as qualitatively diﬀerent from other vigilante groups. Yet, as noted by Human Rights Watch in 2002, the Bakassi Boys came
to be viewed as an uncontrollable and illegal band, which, though ﬁlling a void left by a weak state, had become ruthless mercenaries
who could be hired to eliminate political or commercial opponents. Beyond these accusations, the celebrated operations of the Bakassi
Boys were problematic because of the lack of due process accorded presumed criminals. As one anthropologist notes: “The Bakassi Boys
originated in acts of necessity undertaken in the face of terror. Noble intentions, however, have a tenuous existence in the midst of the
endemic corruption, political factionalism, and electoral machinations that characterize the Nigerian political landscape. Thus Nigerians
remain suspicious of the power ceded to vigilantes.”64
Sources: Ekeh 2002; Nwana 2000; McCall 2004.

Early results need to be compatible with,
rather than undermine, long-term institutionbuilding. The choice of results and the manner in which they are to be achieved is
important because it can set directions for
later institution-building. For instance, if
communities are passive recipients of aid,
they have fewer incentives to take responsibility for violence prevention; and if social protection is provided by external actors alone,
national institutions have fewer incentives to
undertake responsibilities to protect vulnerable citizens. Hence, there is a need for building
coalitions for delivery that include a mixture

of state and nonstate, bottom-up and topdown approaches. Such coalitions are a better
underpinning for longer-term institutional
transformation; in fact, some early results actively build momentum for institutional
transformation, as has been the case with the
National Solidarity Program in Afghanistan.
As countries end one episode of violence or go
through an initial political transition, they remain at high risk of recurring violence. The
need at this point is to create legitimate social
and governmental institutions and improve
prospects of economic prosperity. Chapter 5
will discuss these issues.

Restoring confidence: Moving away from the brink

FEATURE 4

137

Indonesia: Restoring confidence in Aceh

Types of violence: Civil conﬂict, gang-related violence, vigilantism
Transition moment: Signiﬁcant space for change: 2004 Indian
Ocean tsunami, 2005 peace agreement

Key stakeholders: National and provincial governments; GAM
(political and military wings); conﬂict victims; Association of
Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), European Union (EU), and wider
international community

Key stresses: Distribution of natural resource wealth, legacies of
conﬂict, reintegration of ex-combatants, loss of life and devastation
due to tsunami

Institutional challenges: Weak capacity and accountability of
provincial political and administrative institutions, coordination of
external inputs

I

n the choreography of peace negotiations—from efforts to
build both national support and local inclusion to the
judicious use of external support—the peace process in Indonesia’s Aceh province exemplifies many of the attributes of effective conflict prevention and resolution after 30 years of suspicion and outright hostility.

Inclusive-enough coalition
Agreement on the parameters of the peace agreement—in the
form of a memorandum of understanding (MOU) signed in
Helsinki in August 2005—came at the end of six months of
carefully mediated negotiations between the Indonesian government and the Free Aceh Movement (Gerakan Aceh
Merdeka, or GAM). Both sides did their best to ensure things
went smoothly. The team representing the Indonesian government was handpicked by President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono and Vice President Jusuf Kalla. In a deliberate effort to
assuage GAM’s concerns about adequate representation for
non-Javanese, the core team was drawn from other provinces.
Learning from previous processes, the government was careful
to manage communications in Jakarta and at a national level
to demonstrate the benefits of the process, avoiding focusing
on provincial buy-in at the expense of national support. The
Finnish nongovernmental organization, Crisis Management
Initiative, led by former Finland president Martti Ahtisaari,
played a key role in facilitating the discussions.
The government mobilized support at the national level for
peace talks by emphasizing the cost of the conflict to the national budget—in expenditures on security measures (estimated at US$2.3 billion or 21 percent of the total economic
cost of the conflict) and forgone tax revenues from lower oil
and gas exports—and the imperative of stability in Aceh to
private investment in the country.65

Signals for confidence-building
The Helsinki MOU articulated the main elements of the peace
settlement, signaling a genuine break with the past. Acehnese
demands for greater political autonomy within a unitary Indonesian republic were clearly spelled out, along with provisions
for this autonomy to be institutionalized in a new Law on the
Governing of Aceh. This would give provincial and local government authority over a broad spectrum of public affairs, except in foreign affairs, external defense, national security, and
monetary and fiscal matters, where the central government
would retain jurisdiction. The MOU also allowed for greater
Acehnese political participation, including a commitment to
facilitate the establishment of Aceh-based political parties—a
prerogative not granted to other provinces. Provisions were
also made to hold local elections in Aceh as soon as possible.
Equally important, the MOU dealt with key security and
justice concerns: reintegrating former combatants and assisting victims of conflict. Provisions included the release of political prisoners and detainees within 15 days of signing the
MOU; amnesty to all who had engaged in GAM activities; and
full political, economic, and social rights to all political prisoners and detainees. The Indonesian and Aceh authorities pledged
reintegration support to ex-combatants in the form of farmland, employment opportunities, and social security (in the
event of incapacity). GAM agreed to demobilize all 3,000 of its
military troops and decommission their arms. In return, the
Indonesian government agreed to withdraw “non-organic”
forces, with the remaining permanent battalions composed
mostly of ethnic Acehnese.66
Rights to natural resources had long been a bone of contention, and the MOU addressed them by stipulating that
Aceh would retain 70 percent of revenue from all current and
future hydrocarbon deposits and from other natural resources

138

FEATURE 4

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

Indonesia: Restoring confidence in Aceh (continued)

in the province. This was a better deal than that enjoyed
by other hydrocarbon-producing regions.67 Addressing deeprooted fears about the rule of law and human rights, the MOU
provided for the separation of powers between the executive,
legislative, and judiciary branches of government.

Commitment mechanisms to lock in signals
A key commitment mechanism was the Law on the Governing
of Aceh, passed by the Indonesian Parliament in August 2006.
This institutionalized many of the provisions agreed in the
Helsinki MOU and serves as a framework for relations between Aceh and the central government.
A special effort went into addressing the ongoing commitment to peace and economic integration. The Aceh PeaceReintegration Board (Badan Reintegrasi-Damai Aceh, or BRA)
was created by a governor’s decree in 2006 as the principal
local agency responsible for overseeing the peace process and
the economic reintegration of ex-combatants, political prisoners, and conflict victims. BRA—a provincial agency reporting
to the governor of Aceh—was given a broad mandate encompassing the design, funding, and implementation of various
policies and procedures related to the reintegration process.
The Aceh Monitoring Mission, created after the Helsinki
MOU, is a good example of external parties monitoring stakeholders’ commitment to their promises. Comprising representatives from the EU, Norway, Switzerland, and five ASEAN
countries, it was deployed to oversee the demobilization of
GAM, the decommissioning of its weapons, the reintegration
of GAM forces, and the removal of “non-organic” police
forces and military battalions from the province. In addition,
the European Commission funded the Aceh Peace Process
Support Program to assist in implementing the peace agreement in four areas: election support, police reform, justice reform, and local governance reform.

Delivering early results
In Aceh, the government, working with external and local actors, delivered some crucial early results for peace-building.
The total estimated amount of funds committed to reintegration and peace-building is Rp 9 trillion.68 The distribution of
funds across districts is evidence of effective geographic tar-

geting of aid. The four most heavily conflict-affected districts—
Aceh Utara, Bireuen, Aceh Timur, and Pidie—received more
than 50 percent of all funds. GAM members (both combatants
and noncombatants) and political prisoners received the largest share of direct assistance, collectively worth almost Rp 400
billion.69
These provisions helped get ex-combatants and other key
target groups back into the workforce. The Aceh Reintegration and Livelihood Survey, commissioned by the World
Bank, indicates that male ex-combatants are 7 percent more
likely to be in full-time employment than their civilian counterparts. Most former combatants and ex-political prisoners
have returned to the occupations they held prior to joining
the insurgency—mainly farming and agricultural wage labor.
The survey also finds that male victims of conflict are 14 percent more likely to be in full employment than male nonvictims.70 Poverty has decreased in Aceh since the end of the
conflict, more so in the conflict-affected areas than in the
nonconflict-affected areas, but the province still lags behind
the national average.
Aceh also shows how community-driven programs can
kick-start local reconstruction and social protection. Soon after the peace agreement was signed, BRA initiated communitybased reintegration assistance through the Kecamatan Development Program. Aimed exclusively at conflict victims, the
program provided US$22.7 million of government money in
one round of grants and operated in 1,724 villages in 2007.71
It focused on conflict-affected communities to help them
improve living conditions through small projects. Poverty declined by 11 percent more in villages participating in the program than in those that did not.72 Given that almost 90 percent
of funds went to purchase private goods, community-driven
development (CDD) projects can be an effective mechanism
for distributing one-off cash transfers in emergency situations.73 Survey data show that 88 percent of recipients felt that
both BRA-KDP and KDP funds were spent on the most important needs.74
Sources: Aspinall 2005; International Crisis Group 2005; Morfit 2007;
MSR 2009; World Bank 2010a; Government of Republic of Indonesia and
Free Aceh Movement 2005; Braud and Grevi 2005; Schulze 2007; World
Bank 2008a; Barron 2010; Barron and others 2009; Morel, Watanabe, and
Wrobel 2009; Government of Aceh, Syiah Kuala University, and World
Bank 2008.

Restoring confidence: Moving away from the brink

Notes
1. Background work for this Report included review of almost 30 low- and middle-income country
cases—both successful efforts to transition away from violence and those less successful—that experienced a mix of forms of stress and types of violence as identified in chapters 1 and 2. The cases varied widely in their institutional characteristics, ranging from low-capacity countries with relatively
accountable institutions to higher capacity countries with weak accountability mechanisms. This
work was supplemented by national and regional consultations with politicians and analysts from
government and nongovernment institutions.
2. As noted in the guide to the WDR, commitment mechanisms are means of persuading stakeholders
that intentions will not be reversed. This follows the common economic definition of commitment
mechanisms or commitment devices. See Dixit 1980; Schelling 1960; Spence 1977.
3. See Hartzell, Hoddie, and Rothchild 2001; Walter 2004; Nilsson and Jarstad 2008; Wennmann
2009.
4. See Stedman 1996; Adam and Mesnard 2003; Nilsson 2008.
5. Fearon 2004, Keefer 2008. Also, for peace agreements, see Suhrke, Wimpelmann, and Dawes 2007.
For power-sharing arrangements, see Papagianni 2009; Gates and Strøm 2008; Spears 2002;
Sawyer 2004. For security sector reforms, see Azam and Mesnard 2003. For consociationalism, see
Lijphart 1969, 1977; and Andeweg 2000.
6. International Crisis Group 2008b; Friends Committee on National Legislation 2009.
7. Odendaal 2010; Ojielo 2007; UNDPA 2010a.
8. Seely 2001; Keita 1998; Straus 2010.
9. According to leadership development literature, the three qualities of effective leadership include
the ability to set direction, including defining and vetting a vision among relevant individuals and
groups; to create alignment, including coordinating the knowledge and work of a collective in service of this broader direction/vision; and to maintain commitment to this broader direction/vision,
including through the expansion of the group’s efforts to achieve collective goals, not just individual
goals. For more information about leadership theories, see Northouse 2008; Hughes, Ginnett, and
Curphy 2005; McCauley and Van Velsor 2004.
10. Knox 1996.
11. Timor-Leste Ministry of Finance 2010; WDR team consultation in Timor-Leste, 2010.
12. Dupuy and Binningsbø 2008.
13. de Waal and Flint 2008.
14. See Sapelli 2000. Other examples include Argentina, where under the Alfonsin administration,
efforts to make more rapid progress in transitional justice within the security sectors were accompanied by four coup attempts, a political crisis, and the subsequent more cautious approach to
reform adopted by the Menem administration. See Addison 2009; de Greiff 2010.
15. WDR team interview with former president Álvaro Uribe, 2010; WDR team consultation with
government officials, representatives from civil society organizations, and security personnel in
Colombia, 2010.
16. Jeffries and Thomas 1993.
17. Kimani 2008; International Crisis Group 2009d; Cheeseman and Tendi 2010.
18. Mack 2003.
19. WDR team consultation with government officials, representatives from civil society organizations, and security personnel in Colombia, 2010; WDR team consultation in Timor-Leste, 2010.
20. Walter 1997.
21. These include inter-clan pacts in Somaliland; traditional dispute resolution at a national level in
Mali; the ceasefire agreement brokered by community action in Bougainville, Papua New Guinea;
and the peace committees in South Africa. See also Menkhaus 2010; Bradbury 2008; Van der Graaf
2001; Dinnen, Porter, and Sage 2010; Carl and Garasu 2002.
22. Data on battle deaths in Uganda from the UCDP/PRIO Armed Conflict dataset (Lacina and
Gleditsch 2005; Harborn and Wallensteen 2010). Data on homicides comes from statistics based
on LA County Sheriff ’s Department, California Department of Justice and Los Angeles Police
Department, and compiled by the Los Angeles Almanac (Thornton and others 2011).
23. Anderlini 2010b.
24. Sirivi and Havini 2004.
25. Hunt and Posa 2001.

139

140

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

26. Las Madres de la Plaza first appeared as a distinct group on April 30, 1977, when 14 women decided to gather near the pyramid of the Plaza de Mayo in downtown Buenos Aires and demand
that the repressive military regime disclose the whereabouts of their children who were abducted
by the military due to their political ideals and associations and subsequently disappeared. Initially
dismissed, then ridiculed, and later brutally persecuted, the ranks of Las Madres continued to
grow and received recognition internationally for their nonviolent demonstrations in a society
cowed into silence where all the traditional means of public expression, dissent, and protest were
forbidden. Over time, the group of mothers transformed into a political movement and became a
symbol of resistance against the military dictatorship. See Navarro 2001.
27. For instance, shaping a positive and inclusive relationship between citizens and the state has been
an important part of Timor-Leste’s institutional and political agenda since 2007. The government
has actively worked on improving its communication and engagement capacity; a relaxation of the
country’s language policy (though most young Timorese speak Bahasa and very little Portuguese,
the official language policy since 2000 mandated that Portuguese would be the national language
of instruction and administration. This resulted in poor functioning of the civil service, a lack of
development of media, and weak communication between the state and its people) is indicative
of a general shift in the government’s approach. Simultaneously, the international community
started to lend more consistent support to initiatives that promote dialogue (see Von KaltenbornStachau 2008).
28. Hartzell 2006; Paris 2004.
29. Cadeado and Hamela 2009.
30. Cadeado and Hamela 2009.
31. U.S. Government Accountability Office 2007.
32. Agence France-Presse 1999.
33. See de Greiff 2010, 11: “How do transitional justice measures promote this sense of civic trust?
Prosecutions can be thought to promote civic trust by reaffirming the relevance of the norms that
perpetrators violated, norms that precisely turn natural persons into rights-bearers. Judicial institutions, particularly in contexts in which they have traditionally been essentially instruments of
power, show their trustworthiness if they can establish that no one is above the law. An
institutionalized effort to confront the past through truth-telling exercises might be seen by those
who were formerly on the receiving end of violence as a good faith effort to come clean, to understand long-term patterns of socialization, and, in this sense, to initiate a new political project around
norms and values that this time around are truly shared. Reparations can foster civic trust by demonstrating the seriousness with which institutions now take the violation of their rights . . . vetting
can induce trust, and not just by ‘re-peopling’ institutions with new faces, but by thereby demonstrating a commitment to systemic norms governing employee hiring and retention, disciplinary
oversight, prevention of cronyism, and so on.”
34. Transitional justice approaches are defined by the UN as the “full range of processes and mechanisms associated with a society’s attempt to come to terms with a legacy of large-scale past abuses
in order to ensure accountability, service justice and achieve reconciliation. These may include
both judicial and non-judicial mechanisms and individual prosecution, reparations, truth seeking,
institutional reform, vetting and dismissals, or a combination thereof ” UN 2004b, 4. See also
Orentlicher 2004, 2005; UN General Assembly 2005a.
35. Gonçalve 2008.
36. Sirleaf 2007b.
37. Porter and Rab 2010.
38. See Kanungo 2004.
39. Sapelli 2000.
40. WDR consultation with former key negotiators from the ANC Alliance and the National Party in
South Africa 2010.
41. Successful social cohesion policies require recognition of language and/or cultural practice in
cases where a group perceives itself systemically excluded and disrespected. In so doing, care must
be taken to avoid creating further fissures or entrenching practices that curtail the civil rights of
women, caste groups etc. See Easterly, Ritzen, and Woolcock 2006; Gupta 1970.
42. Pakistan Ministry of Information and Broadcasting 2010, 10.
43. WDR calculations based on data from the Latinobarómetro survey (1993–2008) and the Afrobarometer survey (1999–2009). See Afrobarometer 2009; Latinobarómetro 2009.

Restoring confidence: Moving away from the brink

44. WDR team consultation with current and former leaders from conflict-affected countries and regions in Berlin, 2009.
45. The Politica Nacional de Rehabilitación (PNR) is a program of the Presidency of the Republic
aimed at the establishment of peace; national reconciliation; and the normalization of areas affected by development imbalances, weakness in the institutional presence of the state, and social
conflicts. See Presidencia República de Colombia 1993.
46. See Pavanello and Othieno 2008; Baird 2010.
47. Barron 2010.
48. The literature on community-driven development in situations of fragility and conflict is extensive; see, for example, Baird 2010; Cliffe, Guggenheim, and Kostner 2003.
49. Experimental evaluations of CDD programs are rare. One example is Fearon, Macartan, and
Weinstein 2009, who carried out research on the impact of a community-driven reconstruction
program in 42 communities in Liberia. “A field experiment in which villages in northern Liberia
were randomly assigned to receive international development assistance provides evidence that
the introduction of new local-level institutions can alter patterns of social cooperation in a way
that persists after the program’s conclusion. Villages exposed to a community-driven reconstruction program exhibit higher subsequent levels of social cooperation than those in the control
group, as measured through a community-wide public goods game. These results are striking.
They suggest that changes in community cohesion can take place over a short period of time; can
occur in response to outside intervention; and can develop without fundamental changes either to
the structure of economic relations or to more macro-level political processes. Random assignment of communities to treatment provides confidence in the causal nature of the relationship,
and the use of behavioral outcome measures reinforces our sense that the effects are real. These
findings suggest that post-conflict development aid can have a measureable impact on social cohesion” (Fearon, Macartan, and Weinstein 2009, 12). For a broader discussion of violent conflict and
the transformation of social capital, see Colletta and Cullen 2000.
50. The randomized impact evaluation of the National Solidarity Programme (NSP) is a multiyear study
designed to quantify changes—across indicators such as economic activity, agricultural production,
access to infrastructure and services, and structures and perceptions of local governance—in 250
“treatment villages” compared to those villages not participating in the NSP. The evaluation is being
led by Andrew Beath of Harvard University; Professor Fotini Christia of Massachusetts Institute of
Technology (MIT), Shahim Kabuli of the World Bank, and Professor Ruben Enikolopov of the New
Economic School, and is being implemented in conjunction with the Vulnerability Analysis Unit
(VAU). It is being supported by the World Bank, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United
Nations (FAO), and the Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation and Development (MRRD) of the Government of Afghanistan. For more information, see the National Solidarity Programme website: http://
www.nsp-ie.org/index.html.
51. Shura is an Arabic word for “consultation” or “council.” The word itself can describe an assembly,
an organized body of participants, or an administrative body or council, or may describe a decision-making process. In Afghanistan, tribal shuras have played an important role in community
security and governance since the absence of a functioning government in 1978, and continue to
play a pivotal role in the provision of justice.
52. Patel and Ross 2007, 43.
53. See Melville 2003.
54. Verhey 2001.
55. Carter and Clark 2010; Siddiqui 2011.
56. As noted in chapter 1, the WDR team asked the Norwegian research institute Fafo to conduct
surveys in seven countries and territories, involving a mix of nationally representative samples as
well as subregions affected by violence. One of the survey areas focused on the entity that should
be responsible for providing public goods, such as reducing unemployment and protecting national security. The survey offered respondents a range of actors (the national government, private
enterprises, traditional authorities, and so forth). In answering the question: “Who should be the
main body/entity responsible for allocating land?” respondents as a whole (across the seven locations—Colombia, Côte d’Ivoire, the Democratic Republic of Congo (North and South Kivu provinces), Mali, Sierra Leone, and the West Bank and Gaza) chose traditional leaders as the second
most important entity for land allocation following national governments. In some countries (for
instance, Côte d’Ivoire), the percentage of respondents who identified traditional leaders (57 per-

141

142

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

57.

58.
59.

60.

61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.

69.
70.

71.
72.
73.
74.

cent) actually surpassed those who identified the national government (30 percent). Of all the responsibilities, land allocation (22 percent) was on average the most popularly identified area for
traditional leaders, followed by protecting rivers and forests (6 percent). See Bøås, Tiltnes, and
Flatø 2010.
Protocol-based school management system is a school management system in which control is
decentralized. The government provides authorization for private entities (in most cases faithbased groups) to operate schools under specific government guidelines and regulations. These
guidelines cover areas such as curricula, norms regarding class size, qualification and salaries of
teachers, and system of assessment.
Baird 2010.
Contracting out is one mechanism for accountability between policy makers and service providers
and tends to work better when both parties are focused on outcomes and keep the formal processes light. Effective monitoring and evaluation of results is essential to reward good performers
and improve or replace those who are not doing a good job. See Baird 2010.
See, for example, Wood 2008, which shows how warring parties make use of networks at the substate level, and also how legacies of conflict are transmitted through these networks into political
and military life, local identities and authority structures, gender roles, and political relationships.
See also Peterson and Zuckerman 2010. Blattman charts the need for further micro-level research
on the topic. See Blattman, forthcoming; Spear and Harborne 2010.
For a discussion about privatizing certain security functions in peacemaking, peacekeeping, and
enforcement, see Gerson and Colletta 2002.
Gómez 2008; Meléndez 2007; Muñoz 2010; Arias 2009.
Nwana 2000, 1.
McCall 2004, 1.
World Bank 2010a.
Government of Republic of Indonesia and Free Aceh Movement 2005.
MSR 2009.
This amount represents only one-seventh of the amount provided for the tsunami reconstruction
effort—even though the estimated economic cost of the conflict (Rp. 107.4 trillion) was almost
twice the cost of damage and losses from the December 2004 tsunami (MSR 2009).
MSR 2009.
The MSR report hypothesizes that this could be because people who were employed during the
conflict were more likely to be targeted or possibly that nonvictims are more likely to be students.
Moreover, it is also likely that employment-generating projects that target conflict victims may miss
non-victims who also need assistance (MSR 2009).
Barron 2010.
Barron and others 2009.
Morel, Watanabe, and Wrobel 2009.
Barron and others 2009.

C

hapter 5 describes the dilemmas of institutional transformation for resilience to violence. The ﬁrst of these is
about timelines: delays in a “too slow” reform process prolong states’ vulnerability to violence. But lessons from the history
of institutional transformation provide cautionary evidence that
going “too fast” creates other risks of backlash. Countries that have
addressed violence have sequenced reforms, frequently over a
generational time period, to develop social consensus, and to allow
their societies to absorb change and to develop their institutional
capacities. The second dilemma is about the prioritization of institutional reforms. This chapter provides lessons from country reform
approaches to security, justice, and jobs, as well as from wider issues
like elections and corruption, on how experimentation, adaptation,
and pacing can result in “best-ﬁt” reforms that are adapted to the
local political context.

CITIZEN
SECURITY,
JUSTICE,
AND JOBS
EXTERNAL
STRESS

ST

I

IT

ST

ST

I

TI

ON

5

IN
TU

IN

IN

VIOLENCE and
FRAGILITY

TRANSFORMING

TRANSFORMING

TRANSFORMING

TU

CHAPTER

UT

IO

TI

ON

S

NS

S

EXTERNAL SUPPORT
AND INCENTIVES

Transforming institutions to deliver
citizen security, justice, and jobs
Pacing and sequencing
institutional transformation

P

ent-up demands for change in fragile and transitional situations, and
the importance of legitimate, capable, and accountable institutions
for violence prevention, mean institutional
transformation is central to effectively linking security and development approaches.
This section of the Report describes lessons
on the pacing, prioritization, and sequencing
of reform.

Avoiding “too much, too soon,” and
finding the “best fit”
With deficits in the quality of governance in
many sectors in most fragile situations, the
best approach may seem to be rapid, acrossthe-board institutional transformation. But
the scope and speed of reform are themselves
risk factors—and attempting to do too much
too soon may actually increase the risk of
resumed conflict. The “too much, too soon”
syndrome leads to many of the symptoms
observed in difficult transitions such as the
following:
• Overtaxing the existing political and social
network capacity of national reformers (as
in the Central African Republic and Haiti
in the early 2000s).1

• Transplanting outside “best practice” models without putting sufficient time or effort
into adapting to context (for instance, in
Iraq).2
• Adopting an output orientation that defines success in the de jure space in the
capital city (for example, by passing laws,
writing sector plans and policies, or creating new commissions or organizational
structures) and not an outcome orientation in the de facto world where people
live (by improved services, even if basic, in
insecure and marginalized rural and urban areas), such as in Timor-Leste from
2002 to 2005.3
• “Cocooning” efforts into parallel channels
that facilitate short-run accomplishment
by bypassing national organizations and
institutions, and undermine national institution-building in the longer term, as,
for example, in Afghanistan in 2001–03
and to some extent afterward.4
Once national and local reformers have
set priorities and sequenced their goals for
transforming institutions, the next steps
might seem straightforward. Out there somewhere is the “state of the art,” the “best practice,” the “technically perfect” way. Common
sense says not to “reinvent the wheel” but to
adopt what works well. And so, national and
international actors alike feel the temptation

146

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

REFLECTIONS FROM ADVISORY COUNCIL MEMBERS: 2011 WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT
B OX 5 .1

China’s approach to gradually piloting economic reform
Ambassador Wu Jianmin, Chairman of the Shanghai Center for International Studies; WDR Advisory
Council Member
China’s economic reform and opening up to the outside
world policy has led China in the last 32 years to a strong
and steady growth. This policy generated a tremendous
change in China. There are three key factors which made
China’s economic reform successful: bottom-up approach,
gradualism, and a principle to pilot reforms and measure
their impact before debating whether they should be
national policy.
China’s economic reform started ﬁrst in the countryside.
In 1978 China’s urbanization rate was 17 percent. The overwhelming majority of the Chinese population was in the
countryside. In 1978, 18 peasants from Anhui province, Xiaogang village, decided to break away from the centrallyplanned economy and signed a secret contract. In accordance
with this contract, they divided the land at their disposal into
small pieces. Every peasant was responsible for his small
piece of land and agricultural production. This contract provided a powerful incentive for them to produce more food,
so that they could enjoy a better return. The provincial government was very much supportive of this 18 peasants’ initiative. At the same time, in Guangdong province, some people
started private business with the local government’s tacit
agreement. However, other provinces were very much skeptical about it. They believed that kind of reform was wrong,
“capitalistic,” and incompatible with a socialist China.

The central government of China did not ask other provinces to adopt the same reform. It wanted the good results of
the reform to convince those hesitant provinces. The fact
speaks louder than any argument. Three years later, Anhui
province which practiced this reform enjoyed more food on
their plate. Gradually, other provinces followed suit.
At the beginning of China’s economic reform, people had
very diﬀerent views about it. Many people believed that the
reform underway was not in compliance with Chairman Mao’s
teaching. The Chinese government under Deng Ziaoping
adopted a principle to pilot reforms and measure their beneﬁts before debating whether they should be national policy,
building on the change in thinking that had taken place after
the Cultural Revolution which aimed to “emancipate the mind”
from divisive ideological debate.
To carry on successfully the reform, what we need most is
people’s support. We can get it only when reform brings tangible beneﬁts to the people. Step by step, a uniﬁed narrative
on development, based on results, was created. History proved
Deng Xiaoping right, avoiding the division of the Chinese people into diﬀerent camps, or engaging in an endless sterile
debate and instead producing a real improvement in the people’s welfare.

to apply off-the-shelf international best practices. But these practices are often designed
for environments that are secure, have a high
degree of capacity in state institutions, and
have functioning competitive markets. Environments of repeated violence are insecure,
have institutional deficits, and generally have
only partially functioning markets. So the
simple notion of “not reinventing the wheel”
and just adopting best practice does not succeed nearly as often as one might hope.
An alternative is to focus on pragmatic,
best-fit options adapted to political realities,
institutional capacity, and levels of insecurity.
Countries successfully moving away from
fragility or violence have adapted solutions
from abroad to suit their context. The fact that
simply copying does not work does not negate
the value in learning from other country experiences. By so doing, countries create their

own practical and feasible solutions adapted
to their particular set of available institutions
and capabilities. An example is China’s Township and Village Enterprises: These were not
“private sector” firms at all. They were instead
a transitional device that provided many of
the functions of private sector firms (dynamism, innovation, investment) without all the
legal and institutional accoutrements private
sector firms need. So, rather than wait for the
environment to be right for one institution
(private firms), the Chinese government created a new form of enterprise (box 5.1).

Early attention to basic functions of
citizen security, justice, and job creation
Chapter 2 underlined that the stresses associated with violence can occur in the security,
justice, and economic arenas. The research

Transforming institutions to deliver citizen security, justice, and jobs

REFLECTIONS FROM ADVISORY COUNCIL MEMBERS: 2011 WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT
B OX 5 . 2

It takes time to build institutions. First things first—citizen security, justice, and jobs
Minister George Yeo, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Singapore; WDR Advisory Council Member
It takes time to build institutions. Getting the urgent things
done ﬁrst, especially improving security, delivering basic
justice, and providing jobs, helps people to feel more hopeful about the future. Success then creates the condition for
further success. Without a practical approach, new institutions cannot take root in the hearts and minds of ordinary
people. For Singapore in the early years, being pragmatic
was not a choice but a necessity. Ideology was a luxury we
could not aﬀord. We had to do ﬁrst things ﬁrst and get our
priorities right. Then, as the economy took oﬀ and life got
better, we could be more reﬁned and sensitive in public
policy. We were fortunate to have many friends who wished
us well and assisted us in ways big and small.
In the ﬁrst few years of independence, the priority was
on security, law and order, and creating favorable conditions for investment and economic growth. Conﬁdence was
everything. National Service was introduced within a year.
Secret societies and other criminal activities were suppressed. Corruption was progressively rooted out. To promote investment, labor and land acquisition laws were
reformed early. Against conventional wisdom in many
developing countries at that time, we eschewed protectionism and encouraged multinationals to invest. We did not

on the stresses and institutional factors associated with risks of violence covered in
chapter 2, country cases studies, and consultations with national reformers all point to
the importance of prioritizing the institutions that provide citizen security, justice (including control of corruption), and jobs to
prevent a recurrence of violence and lay the
basis for future reform.5 This prioritization
is confirmed by findings of the Voices of the
Poor project and the country-level surveys
conducted for the WDR: people’s top priority after basic security and law and order is
their own economic survival.6 Prioritizing
security, justice, and jobs does not mean addressing all the wide-ranging functions that
will be needed in these areas as societies
develop—but simply focusing on basic progress in these areas early in transitions from
violence (box 5.2)
This chapter presents a range of practical
interventions across the domains of security,

allow proﬁt to become a dirty word. Opening wide the portals
to the outside world was a sine qua non—the sea port, the
airport, telecommunications. Managing the politics of change
was always a challenge. At every step of the way, we had to
give hope to the population that tomorrow would be better
than today. A long-term massive public housing program was
launched with home ownership a priority. This gave every
household an equal stake in Singapore’s development. The
program was ﬁnanced through a system of compulsory savings. A national focus was brought to the education system,
helping us to overcome racial and religious divisions. Having
to accommodate so many people on a small island, we had to
develop skills in urban planning, including good public transportation, traﬃc management based on pricing of scarce road
space, and provision of green space so important for public
morale. We studied the experiences of other countries and
adapted them to our own situation.
All this had to be done in a way that won majority support
at every general election. The key was winning the trust of the
people. Institutions which endure are sustained by the respect
and aﬀection of the population. It is a process which takes at
least a generation. Institutions are not built by merely passing
laws or engaging consultants.

justice, and jobs. These interventions include
those that deliver early results to build citizen confidence, which can either buy time for
institutional reforms to take hold, or actively
support such reforms. Emphasis is also placed
on interventions that use best-fit institutional
approaches that offer practical solutions to
given problems; they may be context-specific,
but they demonstrate the adaptability of a
wide range of tools. Early actions and bestfit approaches are linked to priority reforms
that can be undertaken with limited capacity,
even in fragile contexts. These are set apart
from reforms that would generally be applied
more gradually as they require more fundamental social, economic, or political shifts.

Multisectoral approaches
The interventions in this chapter are presented for each domain—security, justice,
and jobs and associated services—separately.

147

148

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

BOX 5.3

Coordinated political, security, and development responses to violence—Lessons from
urban, subnational, and organized criminal violence in Latin America

Multisectoral violence prevention programs suggest a way of bringing diﬀerent actors together to address the complexities of violence.
In rapidly urbanizing areas—not only in the developing world, but also in high- and middle-income countries—violence is characterized by the convergence of a wide range of risk factors, including overcrowding, inequality, youth unemployment, and drug crime.
While violence has traditionally been managed through the criminal justice sector and coercive responses, recent multisectoral
approaches, particularly in Latin American cities, have demonstrated the beneﬁts of a more integrated response. The approaches
emphasize a balance between long-term structural prevention and control-oriented approaches and address a variety of stress factors
simultaneously. The emphasis on local government and community engagement in design, implementation, and oversight has fostered
better diagnoses of the drivers of violence and ensured stronger community ownership.
The city of Belo Horizonte, Brazil, had a steep rise in homicide rates from 1997 to 2001. The victims and perpetrators of violence
were often young men under the age of 24 living in slums. Preventive actions were implemented by the state government of Minas
Gerais, in partnership with the city and nongovernmental organizations, under the program Fica Vivo, which targeted youth for social
support, education, and sports. Social interventions were accompanied by a new form of policing that ﬁrst captured sought-after criminals and then installed a permanent community police element—gaining the trust and conﬁdence of the population. An evaluation of
the program in one of the targeted communities showed reductions of as much as 45 homicides per 100,000 inhabitants per semester
compared with the rest of the city. Fica Vivo has a return on investment of 99–141 percent of the total cost of the program.
In Bogotá, Colombia, between 1993 and 2002, a multisector strategy was credited with progress in combating urban violence. The
strategy included campaigns to promote citizen disarmament and control of alcohol consumption; neighborhood crime-monitoring
committees; family police stations to control domestic violence and reduce assaults on women; police reform measures; urban renewal
eﬀorts, such as the Transmilenio urban transport program; and employment programs. Evaluations showed that some of these interventions resulted in sizable reductions in the levels of violent crime. For example, restrictions on gun carrying during weekends and
holidays are credited with reducing the homicide rate by 14 percent. The urban renewal and transportation program, known as Transmilenio, was credited in some of the most violent areas of Bogotá with reducing overall levels of crime and violence dramatically by 86
percent. Interventions related to the strengthening of the police force and interventions to alleviate the backlog of cases in the judicial
system and speed up trials also had notable reductions in the levels of violent crime, with a 76 percent reduction in the assault rate.7
Source: Alvarado and Abizanda 2010; Beato 2005; Fabio 2007; International Centre for the Prevention of Crime 2005; Duailibi and others 2007;
Peixoto, Andrade, and Azevedo 2007; Guerrero 2006; Llorente and Rivas 2005; Formisano 2002; WDR team consultation with law enforcement,
civil society, and Brian Center (Executive Director, A Better LA in Los Angeles), 2010.

However, their combination, both within
and across the domains, is both feasible and,
in fact, desirable in most instances, as highlighted in chapter 4. The interventions thus
should not be viewed in isolation but as
part of a comprehensive approach to delivering results and transforming institutions.
Specific multisectoral approaches bridging
these areas have generated promising results.
For instance, in rapidly urbanizing areas in
Latin America and the United States, where
gang- and drug-related violence have resisted
“hard” policing efforts,8 there has been over
time a gradual shift toward multisectoral programs of prevention at the community level.
The programs combine short-term, quickimpact programs (targeted policing, urban
upgrading, and social service provision)
with longer-term preventive interventions
(changing cultural norms, building alterna-

tive conflict resolution mechanisms). Brazil
and Colombia have established some of the
most intensive efforts to foster multiagency
approaches, creating teams drawn from the
military, police, and civilian service agencies
that work together in combined national
and local offices to address all aspects of local crime reduction and violence prevention
(box 5.3). While programs of this kind are
demanding for interagency coordination,
their results suggest that their underlying
principles are worth considering in violenceaffected areas in other regions.

Citizen security
Consolidating and coordinating security
services is a fundamental first step in institutional reforms to prevent violence. For-

Transforming institutions to deliver citizen security, justice, and jobs

mer United Nations (UN) Under-SecretaryGeneral for Peacekeeping Operations JeanMarie Guéhenno points out that, “Reestablishing trust between the people and the
state must therefore start with the core function of a state, the capacity to assert its monopoly on the legitimate use of force.”9
A state may have lost the monopoly over
the use of force because rebel forces or armed
criminal groups operate in its territory with
impunity—but also because fragmented security services within the state operate without overall coherence of command and control, contradicting each other. In the West
Bank and Gaza, prior to security reforms enacted in 2005, the Palestinian security forces
had 12 divisions under multiple chains of
command and multiple authorities, employing 40,000 people. This lack of monopoly of
force and clear lines of authority had the effect of increasing the potential for corruption and racketeering.10 The need to consider
a coordinated approach on police and military reform is also recognized in the 2007
security sector reform framework of the
Organisation for Economic Co-operation
and Development–Development Assistance
Committee (OECD-DAC).11
Civilian oversight of the security forces is
important early on if security forces are to
be used in the national interest and prevent
abuses. It involves links between political and
security strategy and public finances. Three
key elements in successful civilian oversight
are as follows:
• Have political and military leaders discuss
the mission of the security forces in supporting national objectives. This occurred
in Colombia as part of the Democratic
Security Policy (box 5.4). In contrast, little
dialogue was held in Timor-Leste between
2000 and 2005 on the missions of the army
and the police, which some argue culminated in renewed violence in 2006.12
• Use public finance systems to reinforce
civilian control. Obviously, security sector personnel need to be paid and adequately equipped to perform effectively.

They also need to be accountable for
their finances: civilian oversight cannot work effectively where the security
forces draw their sources of revenue offbudget. Equally important, ensuring
that the security and justice sectors are
funded adequately and transparently is
critical to stem the diversion of illegal
revenues from natural resources or trafficking to the security forces. Reforming
budget systems in the security services
was part of the Colombian Democratic
Security Policy (box 5.4).13 Reducing
off-budget sources of finance (such as
revenues from companies) was similarly
important in Indonesia’s transformation
of the role of the military in political
life. Palestinian leadership eventually
addressed the fragmentation of the security forces by complementing political
and security strategy with the use of
budget and payment systems to increase
accountability.14
• Commit the military to improvements
in accountability and human rights. Underdeveloped security forces deployed
into intensified operations may end up
accused of preying on civilians, as in the
Democratic Republic of Congo.15 Such
abuse is potentially disastrous for the
legitimacy of the state because it cuts to
the heart of the government’s obligation
to care for its citizens.
In post-conflict contexts, large security
forces can be an unavoidable necessity in
the short term, even if they are a drain on
financial resources. The need to build trust
between erstwhile enemies may call for the
integration of the belligerent forces rather
than their immediate disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR). For
instance, following the end of the Ugandan
civil war in 1986 and subsequent agreements
between opposing forces, fighters were integrated into the National Resistance Army
before the demobilization and reintegration
program, the Uganda Veterans Assistance
Program, was launched in 1992.16 Similarly,

149

150

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

REFLECTIONS FROM ADVISORY COUNCIL MEMBERS: 2011 WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT
B OX 5 . 4

Colombia’s establishment of civilian oversight and the Democratic Security Policy
Marta Lucía Ramirez de Rincón, Director, Fundación Ciudadanía en Acción; former Senator and
Chair of Security Commission, Colombia; former Defense Minister and former Foreign Trade Minister,
Colombia; WDR Advisory Council Member
The challenge we faced in 2002 was preventing Colombia
from becoming a failed state. This meant shielding our citizens from kidnapping and terrorism. It also meant protecting our infrastructure, roads, and democratic institutions
against attacks by the guerrillas, the paramilitaries, and
drug traﬃckers.
President Uribe’s Democratic Security Policy called for
the presence of the military and police over the entire territory of the nation within six months. This required not just
more people in the armed forces, but also providing them
with more equipment and better training in human rights
and doctrine, so the police and military could operate successfully under a single command. It was also a result of
American cooperation through Plan Colombia, a program
initiated by the previous Colombian government, headed
by Andrés Pastrana.
From the beginning, we stressed the importance of
greater civilian control over defense. We brought civilians
into the ministry to work with the military commanders on
defense and security policy. This had the additional beneﬁt
of greater transparency in budget allocations and the management of other resources used by the military. Civilian
engagement in budget planning with security force colleagues helped in the success of the Democratic Security
Policy.

Having strengthened civilian control of the ministry, we
embarked on an unprecedented exercise in developing a
10-year strategic plan with performance indicators against
which we could chart progress in implementing the president’s security policy. As Minister of Defense, I brought in representatives of the business community and academics of different ideological tendencies to provide input for the national
security policy. The goal was both to increase the legitimacy of
the policy and to build conﬁdence in the armed forces. This
was the ﬁrst time such consultations had taken place. I also
called on entrepreneurs to let us use their experience to help
the government with procurement systems, logistics, and
state-of-the-art technologies.
It is hard to put your ﬁnger on the precise reasons for our
success. But over the past eight years we have won back control of the national territory. We have ended kidnapping on
our roads—in the so-called “Pescas Milagrosas.” And we have
seen the number of terrorist organizations decline to the point
where it would be hard to imagine their revival. Our focus now
is on maintaining momentum. We must continue to pursue
the policies that have brought success in recent years. And we
must go further by strengthening our institutions and ensuring democratic civilian control of the armed forces whose
monopoly over the use of force is recognized and respected.

WDR note: Why is it important to pay attention to the security and justice budgeting process?
Security and justice are essential public goods that beneﬁt development and poverty reduction. It is both appropriate and
necessary for the state to allocate resources for the maintenance of security and access to justice. Attention must therefore be
paid to the ﬁnancial management of the security and justice sectors so that resources are used eﬀectively and eﬃciently
against agreed priorities in a transparent and accountable manner.
Three crucial, inter-related components of managing security and justice expenditure are as follows:
•

As in other parts of the public sector, security and justice budgets should be prepared against sectoral strategies. Governments must be able to identify the needs and key objectives of the security and justice sectors as a whole and the
speciﬁc roles that the various security and justice actors will be asked to play.

•

Resources m ust b e a llocated a ccording t o p riorities b oth w ithin t he s ecurity a nd j ustice s ectors a nd b etween s ecurity
and justice and other sectors. Sectoral strategies and information on performance are critical components of the allocative
process. The key ﬁnancial and economic managers plus the legislature must have the capacity to be fully involved in this
process, and the process must include all relevant actors. Security and justice must compete fully with other sectors for funding. Public expenditure analysis that covers the whole of government can help provide information to inform this process.

•

Finally, resources appropriated must be used eﬃci ently and eﬀec tively. This requires careful monitoring and evaluation of
operational performance, both within the security and justice services and by civil servants. Basic well-functioning ﬁnancial
management information systems are critical in this regard. Additionally, it is extremely important that irregularities identiﬁed in the course of monitoring are addressed, lest a climate of noncompliance be created or reinforced. The transparency
of procurement processes is as important in security and justice as in other areas. Internal audit units or inspector-general
functions within the defense, justice, and interior ministries can play important roles in ensuring eﬀective resource use.

Sources: Ball and Holmes 2002; Harbone and Sage 2010.

Transforming institutions to deliver citizen security, justice, and jobs

South Africa expanded the wage bill for security services as a transitional measure.17 A
lack of alternative livelihood opportunities
also argues for a cautious approach to DDR.
In Colombia, many former Autodefensas
Unidas de Colombia (AUC) guerillas passed
through a DDR process, only to reemerge
as hired killers for the existing drug dealers or as leaders and operatives in new drug
gangs.18 The “least-bad answer” between fiscal costs and security risks may be tolerating an oversized security sector for a transitional period as a source of employment for
combatants who would otherwise have little
chance of finding work.19
Guéhenno also notes that “Trust depends
on legitimacy, but legitimacy is also a function of effectiveness. A reformed security
force needs to be perceived as professional.
Recruitment and vetting [are] probably the
single most important factor.”20 Dismantling
covert, abusive, or corrupt networks within
the security forces through recruitment or
vetting has also been an important early reform in many countries that have sustained
successful institutional transformations away
from violence. In Bosnia and Herzegovina
between 1999 and 2002, the United Nations Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina
(UNMIBH) vetted all law enforcement personnel in the country.21
The removal of abusers has often been
achieved through indirect professionalization
measures. For example, vetting in security
services was not conducted in Argentina, but
the requirement to accept nongovernmental
organization (NGO) submissions on past
abuses when confirming security appointments resulted in implicit “vetting out” of
officers who did not want to face queries
over their past records. Both Chile and Argentina made use of the recruitment of graduates into the security forces and increased
emphasis on professional training to create
an environment that furthered professional
standards and made it difficult for abusers to
prosper.22
Vetting programs can be strongly customized to context in three principal ways:

• Vetting programs differ in terms of their
targets. No transitional society has reformed or vetted all institutions at the
same time and, in fact, rarely even a single
institution at all hierarchical levels. Choices
have to be made about both the institutions where vetting will be applied and the
positions within those institutions that
will be subject to screening.
• Programs differ also in terms of the screening criteria. What kind of abuses, precisely,
is the system designed to root out?
• Not all programs are the same in terms of
the sanctions they impose; even firings can
take place in many different ways (starting
with a relatively mild one involving giving
people the opportunity to resign without
disclosing their participation in behavior
considered abusive). Vetting sanctions can
involve different degrees of publicity and
also prospective limitations in seeking employment in various sectors in the future.23
Actions to reform the security services
during transitions are often combined with
deliberate decisions not to undertake actions that could threaten military support for
change. In Indonesia, for example, the role of
the military in civilian administration and in
the economy was dramatically decreased, but
little action was taken on past human rights
abuses. In Chile, civilian oversight, elimination of abusive security units, and some
prosecutions of past human rights abuses
were undertaken quickly, but initial prosecutions were targeted and limited in scope and
military revenues were protected under the
“copper law.”24
Attention to gender sensitivity and women’s full participation in security-sector reform can contribute to success.25 Women
bring a more gender-specific value-added to
broader security tasks, including enhanced
access to services by women, fewer incidents
of sexual misconduct, and greater trust of
the civilian population in the security sector.
Moreover, studies on policing have found that
female police officers use less force, are better

151

152

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

at defusing potentially violent situations, and
facilitate community policing well.26
In Nicaragua, gender reforms of the police sector initiated in the 1990s resulted in
the police being described as the most
“women-friendly” force in the region, hailed
for its success in addressing sexual violence.27
In a similar vein, the UN Mission in Liberia’s
(UNMIL) all-female Formed Police Unit undertook joint crime prevention night patrols
with local police in Liberia, helping them
overcome lingering suspicions of citizens
whose trust in the uniform had been eroded
by civil war.28 In Namibia, a Women and Child
Protection Unit was created within the police
force to address the problem of domestic violence.29 In Sierra Leone, female victims had
also been reluctant to come forward and seek
help from police. The UN Mission in Sierra
Leone helped create a Family Support Unit
within the police department that included
female police officers. This more compassionate environment for victims resulted in an increase in reports on sexual violence, 90 percent of which came from women and girls.30
Citizen security can be addressed at both
local and national levels. At the local level, involving communities and the private sector
can improve the relations between the state
and its citizens and thereby help prevent violence and conflict. Effective interventions include the following:
• Community policing works by reducing
crime through community partnership.
Working with community members, it
identifies, responds to, and solves crimes
and other problems that affect the community.31 Neighborhood policing is similar to community policing. It aims to provide a visible police force that is citizen
focused and accountable to community
members, expressing local solidarity, in
order to meet a community’s needs. For
instance, community policing in Kosovo
brought together residents, municipal
governments, and security providers to
agree upon specific “community safety
plans.” Easier and less sensitive security
problems such as traffic violations were

tackled first to allow for quick wins. Harder
security concerns such as recovery and removal of illicit weapons were addressed
once confidence was built in the process.
Interviews with residents show tangible
progress in reduction of minor security
breaches, as well as improved communitypolice relations and perceptions of security.32 Similarly, in the municipality of
Hatillo in Costa Rica has applied community policing, involving community members in action plans for public safety. One
year after implementation, the program’s
impact on delinquency was not significant, but the feeling of insecurity decreased
from 36 percent of community members
to 19 percent, and public perceptions of
the police improved.33
• The private sector can support municipal
governments and civil society in local
crime and violence prevention initiatives.
The police pacification units in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, were started in late 2008 to
replace coercive, short-term interventions
in favelas with a long-term police presence
and social services. The aim is to ensure
the consolidation of territorial control and
peace in the areas of intervention through
the promotion of citizenship and development, fully integrating these areas into the
larger city. The private sector helps finance
the initiative, thus contributing to social
and economic development in the pacified
favelas.34
• Communities have prevented and responded to gender-based violence. The
European Union (EU) military operation
in the Democratic Republic of Congo
collaborated with local women’s organizations, which provided information on
whom to contact regarding psychosocial,
medical, and legal support whenever EU
forces came across cases of sexual violence. The UN Mission there also organized villagers to establish a community
alarm scheme to warn against intruding
forces committing violent acts, often
against women.35

Transforming institutions to deliver citizen security, justice, and jobs

It can be helpful to maintain longestablished, functioning practices to help address policing and public security, even if these
are not very “technical” solutions. In Haiti,
Prime Minister Jean-Max Bellerive noted
that the country needs a modernized force
with advanced technical equipment for large
urban areas, which face sophisticated and
highly violent networks of gangs and organized crime. In rural areas, however, the traditional rural police force operated effectively
in resolving small land and property disputes.
Establishing a force with sophisticated technical equipment and a mission more suited
to urban areas “should not make the police
feel that it is no longer their job to walk up
the hill and resolve a property or family dispute before it escalates into violence.”36
Making security reform a top priority does
not mean fully comprehensive reform and
modernization across all aspects of these systems. Basic reforms that improve citizen security, and that prevent outright capture of the
system, can enable reforms to move forward
in other political and economic areas, allowing more gradual comprehensive reform and
professionalization. Haiti’s police force provides an example of progress in basic functions and state-society trust in the security institutions from a very fragile start (box 5.5).

Justice
Criminal justice functions and dispute
resolution
Experience has shown that coordination
across justice agencies is critical to reduce
impunity, and that effective linkages must
exist between the police and other justice
institutions, including the judiciary, public
prosecutors, and prisons, to address crime
and violence.37 While the police force in Haiti
post-2004 made impressive strides (see box
5.5), advances in the courts and prison system did not match the police force’s increase
in capacity and legitimacy, so offenders were
often released back into communities without due process and continued to engage

B OX 5 . 5

Reform of the Haiti police force, even in difficult
circumstances

Types of violence: Widespread crime and gang-related violence, militia
activity, organized crime, drug traﬃcking
Transition moments: Major space for
change, new national and police leadership, signiﬁcant external support

Key stakeholders: Government,
citizens, international partners,
police

Key stresses: Legacy of violence and
mistrust, drug traﬃcking and organized crime activities, low incomes,
youth unemployment, corruption

Institutional challenges: Weak
political, judicial, and security
institutions; lack of accountability;
low trust in security forces

The transformation of the Haiti National Police from the least to the most
trusted institution of the state over ﬁve years can be attributed to a reform plan
of internal and external actors. Reform was viewed not only as an internal technical activity, but ﬁrst and foremost as a political process requiring the buy-in of
Haiti’s leaders. Their political support ensured that ﬁnancial resources were allocated to pay salaries and support day-to-day police operations. Another external
factor was that the UN Stabilization Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH), through its
military and police presence, contributed to internal security, allowing space
for a thorough police training program.
With these critical external factors in place, the Haiti National Police (HNP),
supported by MINUSTAH, professionalized the force, raised the morale of its oﬃcers, and boosted public conﬁdence. It implemented procedures to vet existing
oﬃcers and recruit new ones. Including women in the police force was given a
priority by both the government and police leadership. A strengthened internal
aﬀairs unit acted decisively in cases of wrongdoing, reinforcing the value of and
need for oﬃcer integrity. A seven-month initial recruit training program (rather
than the typical two to three weeks often seen in post-conﬂict environments)
was implemented alongside other specialized training programs. Each oﬃcer
was properly equipped to undertake his or her policing functions and received
regular salary payments. The police uniform, closely associated with the corruption and human rights abuses of the past, was changed—both to prevent former oﬃcers from using their uniforms for illegal activities and, more important,
as a public symbol of the change in the police force. The HNP also strengthened
its management, delegated more authority to the ﬁeld, and enhanced its administrative and support functions.
Haiti’s population has recognized the changes in the HNP: asked in 2009
whether they had seen a change in police work over the past year, 72 percent
reported a positive change, and 83 percent reported that the security situation
in the country was either “a lot” or at least “a little” better than in the year prior.
Tested by ﬂoods, hurricanes, earthquakes, and nationwide food riots, the service
on each occasion has performed credibly. Immediately after the earthquake and
aftermath of January 12, 2010, the police was the only arm of government seen
to be functioning in the streets of Haiti.
Source: UNDPKO 2010a.

in illegal activities. By contrast, the ruleof-law reforms introduced by the Regional
Assistance Mission to the Solomon Islands
(RAMSI) focused in parallel on police reforms, further developing a court system that

153

154

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

once had a good reputation and refurbishing
the country’s prisons.38 In middle-income
country contexts such as the transitions from
military rule in Chile and Argentina, where
accountability posed greater constraints than
capacity, reform of security and justice services proceeded at a more or less similar pace
and were mutually reinforcing (some early
changes, some more gradual).39 Conversely,
as noted in chapter 3, in Colombia capacity
increases in the military and police were not
matched by similar increases in resourcing
and capacity within the courts, constraining
overall progress.40
Vetting of personnel, discussed above
in connection with the security forces, can
also be crucial for judges and prosecutors. In
Bosnia and Herzegovina, three High Judicial
and Prosecutorial Councils (HJPC), made up
of international and national personnel, restructured the court system and reappointed
all judges and prosecutors between 2002 and
2004. Almost 1,000 posts were declared vacant, and there was open competition to fill
them.41 Indirect mechanisms have also been
used to improve professionalism in the justice sectors. In Chile following the transition
to military rule, rapid action on civilian oversight of the Carabinieri was combined with
a reform to the promotion and confirmation processes of judges, which encouraged
lower-level prosecutorial independence and
merit-based promotion to higher courts.42
In terms of capacity-building, a focus
on basic administrative functions, replacing of obsolete procedures, and targeting of
improvements in caseload processing have
tended to deliver better results than grand legal and judicial reform plans.43 Governments
and donors have often tended to sacrifice this
pragmatism in approaches to reform justice
systems, favoring redrafting legal codes over
the administration of essential justice and
basic institution-building (as in Afghanistan
after 2001 and Iraq after 2003).44 Provision
of local-level justice services is important to
maintain confidence in institutional reform
efforts, and partnering with communities or
civil society to do so can be an important link
between early results and later institution-

building. In Latin America, innovative local
courts have been effective in bringing justice
to the population (box 5.6).
Other approaches to increase access to
justice that have shown positive results in
areas underserved by the formal system are
mobile courts and the use of paralegals. In
Nicaragua in the early 2000s, mobile courts
and community-based paralegals were credited with a 10 percent reduction in crime
where the scheme operated.45 The approach
by Timap for Justice, a not-for-profit organization offering free justice services in sites
across Sierra Leone, has also demonstrated
important results. Paralegals backstopped by
lawyers have assisted communities to address
disputes and grievances since 2003. Qualitative research has shown that Timap’s interventions have empowered clients (especially
women) to claim their rights. Community
perceptions of institutional fairness and accountability of the police, traditional leaders, and courts also improved as a result of
Timap’s work.46 Building on Timap, donors
and the government of Sierra Leone joined
with nongovernmental organizations and
community-based groups in 2010 to develop
a national approach to justice services, including a front line of community paralegals
and a smaller core of supporting lawyers.
Access to justice (and services) is often
denied to those who are not registered, and
registration initiatives can be an important form of recognition of citizenship
and community identity for marginalized
groups.47 Organizations like the Community of Sant’Egidio, through its BRAVO
(Birth Registration for All versus Oblivion)
program,48 the International Committee of
the Red Cross, United Nations Children’s
Fund (UNICEF), and United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), as
well as nongovernmental organizations, have
supported national authorities in registering births in difficult contexts. Effective tools
include putting specific provisions in peace
agreements for birth registration and proper
identification, utilizing community “reporters” such as midwives through mobile registration programs, and combining birth regis-

Transforming institutions to deliver citizen security, justice, and jobs

B OX 5.6

Innovative court solutions in Latin America

Twenty-four-hour courts—arraignment courts that hear complaints and review fresh evidence—show how criminal cases can be expedited. One example is the 24-hour court that was
established in 2005 by the Supreme Court of Guatemala. This is an interinstitutional eﬀort, with
not only the judiciary, but also the Public Ministry, the Ministry of Government, the National
Civil Police, and Public Defense Institute participating. Apart from operating 24 hours a day,
365 days a year, the 24-hour court availability has facilitated compliance by the police with the
due process requirement of presenting detainees to a court within a six-hour limit. Over the
ﬁrst three years of the court’s operation, the number of cases it dismissed declined from 77
percent to under 15 percent. Nearly 50 percent of all arraignments ended in alternatives to
detention, such as bail, house arrest, weekly presentations at the local court, or restrictions on
travel. Drug consumption cases fell from over 30 percent to about 7 percent. And the courts
made greater use of alternatives to trial.
In ﬂagrante delicto courts were established in Costa Rica in 2008 on a pilot basis in San José
to reduce criminal case disposition times. They were set up within the existing legal framework, with no need for further legal reforms. Their purpose is to ensure due process guarantees in simpliﬁed procedures to handle cases where the defendant is caught in the act of committing of a crime (that is, in ﬂagrante delicto). These courts remain open 24 hours a day, 365
days a year and operate with several shifts of judges, prosecutors, and public defenders. The
cases are turned over immediately to the prosecutors, who may request an immediate hearing
with the judge to analyze alternative mechanisms, such as summary judgment or preventive
detention. When the defendant and the public defender choose an expedited trial, it can take
place immediately or be set in a few days.
In Colombia, Justice Houses—integrated, multi-agency service centers—are used to solve conﬂicts. These Justice Houses, ﬁrst designed and implemented by USAID (the United States
Agency for International Development) in 1995, have assisted over 7.8 million citizens since
inception, mainly from low-income communities. There are now 50 well-staﬀed facilities
throughout the country in urban and rural areas, some of which are regional in nature. Given
their success in reducing local conﬂict and preserving peace, plans include the construction of
10 new Regional Justice Houses in partnership with the Ministry of Interior and Justice. Other
social services include Peace Centers, which are expanded versions of Justice Houses where the
community has access to programs that promote citizenship values, peaceful coexistence, and
amicable solution of conﬂicts. The ﬁrst Peace Center opened in December 2002 in Barrancabermeja, one of the most violent areas in Colombia, and there are now 15 throughout Colombia.
Sources: World Bank 2010i; USAID Guatemala 2008; USAID 2009b.

tration with the provision of complementary
services such as immunization.49
Supplementing formal justice with traditional community systems can be another
best-fit. Deep and comprehensive judicial
reforms can rarely be achieved in the short
or medium term. One challenge of justice
reform, then, is to create bridges between
the formal and informal systems in the early
stages of transitions. Traditional systems all
over the world settle disputes over land, property, and family issues. As many as 80 percent
of the people in today’s fragile states relies on
nonstate actors for various forms of security
and justice.50 For instance, in Kenya—where
land is frequently a source of private and

communal disputes, even when and sometimes because it is titled—traditional institutions are widely held to be more reliable
in resolving conflict than the state.51 In Mali
in recent years, combinations of local traditional institutions and the state have settled
land disputes, with community groups adjudicating between contestants, and all parties then recording the judgment at the local
prefecture.52 Informal women’s courts can
also supplement formal structures, generally
convened by civil society to allow women to
recount abuses. Women’s courts have been
used in Guatemala for abuses during the civil
war, in Palestinian refugee camps in Lebanon
for rapes during the 1982 Sabra and Shatila

155

156

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

massacres, and in Japan around issues of
World War II “comfort women.”53
The lesson here appears to be to use a
process of recognition and reform to draw
on the capacities of traditional community
structures and to “pull” them gradually in
the direction of respect for equity and international norms. One such example is TimorLeste’s blending traditional customary law
provisions into the formal legal system. In
Timor-Leste after independence, a de facto
hybrid system emerged, where local justice
mechanisms continued to function in parallel
to the formal legal system. The main reasons
for confidence in the traditional system were
that it resolved conflicts according to cultural norms and heritage (51 percent of survey respondents) and was less expensive and
more effective than the formal justice system
(38 percent of survey respondents).54 As the
formal justice system gained capacity, rather
than attempting to entirely displace this informal system, the government in 2009 began
a nationwide public consultation on the legal
recognition of customary law processes, as
envisioned under the constitution. Customary
penalties, such as financial compensation, are
being incorporated into the formal legal code.
The process has also involved a debate on the
tensions between formal and customary approaches applied to such crimes as rape.55

Corruption
Justice is also concerned with ensuring equitable access of citizens to the state’s resources,
that is, it is concerned with corruption. In
Georgia, the Saakashvili government that was
swept up to power by the Rose Revolution of
2003 cracked down on corruption in the public sector after 2003 by better disclosing public
officials’ assets, strengthening whistleblower
protections, and improving public financial
control and procurement measures. In addition, it criminalized active and passive bribery,
enforced its criminal legislation and created
the Anti-Corruption Interagency Council,
tasked with developing and implementing a
new national anti-corruption strategy. Three
years later, Georgia ranked as a top anti-

corruption reformer on several global actionable governance indicators, such that 78 percent of Georgians felt that corruption had
decreased in the last three years, the best result
among the 86 countries surveyed.56
Private and international capacity can
supplement state systems in applying best-fit
approaches to fight corruption in fragile
situations. Liberia recognized it lacked the
capacity to properly oversee its national forestry industry in the post-conflict period and
turned to nonstate capacity to ensure revenue recovery from logging (under former
president Charles Taylor, less than 15 percent
of taxes owed from forestry revenue were collected) and to safeguard against money from
sale of illegal wood being laundered through
the legal supply chain. The government contracted a private inspection company to build
and operate a system to track all timber from
point of harvest through transport to sale,
with an agreement to transfer the system
back to the government after seven years. The
system ensures the government collects all
revenues because it will not issue an export
permit until the Central Bank confirms that
all taxes have been paid.57 Similarly, both Indonesia and Mozambique have used private
sector customs collection agencies to help increase efficiency in an area that is always
highly vulnerable to corruption.58
Transparency of budget and expenditure information is an easy change to put in
place early on, and can be crucial to stem
illegal flows of funds into violent activities. For example, Timor-Leste’s Petroleum
Law, which came into effect in 2005, was
established very early in the transition to
independence. It establishes a high degree
of transparency over funds and recommends that the government only withdraw
amounts up to what is needed to maintain
the capital value of the country’s oil assets.59
The framework for petroleum revenues has
remained robust and protected national assets, even during a bout of renewed insecurity in 2005–06, and is supplemented by
open reporting to parliament and the public
on expenditures in each ministry, including
the security sectors.

Transforming institutions to deliver citizen security, justice, and jobs

Local community and civil society organizations can also combat corruption.
“Social accountability” approaches draw on
the incentives for citizens and communities
to monitor the expenditures most directly
affecting their welfare. These tools include
citizen report cards, community scorecards,
participatory public budgeting, and public expenditure tracking surveys, as well as
community-driven development approaches
where expenditures are publicized transparently at the local level. In fragile situations,
such social accountability tools can contribute to building citizens’ trust in the state at
the national and local levels.60 The results can
be significant. In the Kecamatan Development Program in Aceh, Indonesia, 88 percent of the population surveyed believed that
the program funds had been properly administered and spent on what they considered most important.61 In Madagascar, community monitoring in the health sector (via
community scorecards) led to a 10 percentage
point increase in consumer satisfaction with
health services (from 39 percent to 49 percent) in as little as four months. Scorecards
also helped improve the regularity of salary
payments and interactions between users,
health staff, and village administrators.62
Determined reformers, supported by
equally determined international partners,
can achieve important gains in public accountability and transparency, even in difficult circumstances (box 5.7). In 2002 the
Palestinian Authority embarked on a reform
of its public financial management system
and in less than two years achieved several
notable improvements. All revenue payments
were centralized into the central treasury account, eliminating previous discretionary
and non-transparent spending by line ministries. The Department of Supplies and
Tenders in the Ministry of Finance assumed
full jurisdiction over all purchases (above the
threshold value of US$15,000) by ministries
and agencies, including the Security Financial Administration. Salary payments to security personnel were made directly into their
bank accounts instead of the previous cash
handouts. And the previous large discretion-

ary transfer appropriation for the president’s
office was virtually eliminated, with these
funds instead transferred to service ministries
(Health, Education, and Social Affairs).63
Private sector enterprises can also establish their own pragmatic, best-fit procedures
to deal with the risk of corruption, even in
weak institutional contexts (box 5.7).

Jobs
Private sector recovery
Alleviating key bottlenecks identified by
the private sector can help to restore confidence by signaling to entrepreneurs a more
business-friendly environment generating
economic revival and setting the stage for
broader reform. An early emphasis on simplification of business regulations—rather
than expansion or refinement—has proved
effective. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, the
“Bulldozer Initiative” of 2002, and subsequent “guillotine” initiatives by the entity
governments, mobilized the local business
community to lobby for the elimination
of significant bureaucratic impediments to
private sector growth. The Bulldozer Initiative delivered 50 reforms aimed at eliminating excessive bureaucratic steps in 150 days,
improving the investment climate.64 Selective
legal amendments that permitted freer trade
and simplified inward investment have also
produced early successes. Similarly, in 2001,
as part of a strategy for private sector–led development, Rwanda overhauled its contract
enforcement regime, long an impediment to
investment. Domestic business registrations
increased at 10 percent a year from 2001 to
2004, driving formal sector growth of 6 to
7 percent in 2003 and 2004.65
In violent situations, where business confidence is very low, however, creating the
right environment for businesses is often not
enough to attract investment; more direct intervention is needed for the private sector to
play its catalytic role. One approach is to support value chains.66 Links between producers, traders, and consumers can unravel with
violence, eroding trust between social groups.

157

158

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

REFLECTIONS FROM ADVISORY COUNCIL MEMBERS: 2011 WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT
B OX 5 . 7

Experiences in countering corruption
Flexible and robust mechanisms for combating corruption in the private sector

Mo Ibrahim, Founder, Mo Ibrahim Foundation; Founder, Celtel; WDR Advisory Council Member
When I founded Celtel in 1998 to build and operate mobile
phone networks across Sub-Saharan Africa, well-meaning
friends, shaking their heads in disbelief, told me two things:
You will not succeed because there is no potential market
for this new technology in this poor continent and you must
be prepared to bribe every decision maker, at every level.
Well, Celtel was indeed a tremendous success. Africa
proved to be the fastest growing continent for mobile
phones. As for corruption, I did two simple things. First, I
established a powerful and prominent company board.
Then we decreed that any payment, initially above US$30,000,
must be board approved.
This decision proved to be crucial to enforce the antibribery stand of the company and provided our managers

on the ground with invaluable protection and cover. It indeed
enhanced ﬁnancial discipline throughout the operations. The
wonderful support of our board members and their commitment to respond quickly to any unpredictable funding requirements was crucial. In fairness to African oﬃcials, the number of
incidents where our people came under pressure to pay was far
less than we had expected. On the three occasions we did resort
to legal action in local courts, we won every single case. The
valuable lesson I learnt was that corporate governance pays and
it enhances your bottom line. It is not enough for company
boards to make grand statements on corruption. Until and
unless they put in place the policies that enforce and support
their managers on the ground, their pronouncements will
remain an empty attempt at discharging their ﬁduciary duties.

Making anti-corruption institutions eﬀective in Rwanda after the genocide

H.E. Paul Kagame, President of Rwanda; WDR Advisory Council Member
In the early post-genocide period, Rwanda’s recovery eﬀorts
were focused on stabilization, restoring security, fostering
social trust, and rebuilding and reforming political institutions, as well as laying the foundations for economic recovery and growth. Three years after the genocide and civil
war, work on institution-building to restore virtue and ﬁght
corruption began in earnest. Such eﬀorts included the creation of the Rwanda Revenue Authority, Ombudsman’s
Oﬃce, Auditor General’s Oﬃce, National Public Prosecution
Authority, National Police and the Rwanda Public Procurement Authority, among others. These were complemented
by legislative measures such as the Organic Law on the
Leadership Code of Conduct, all of which were in place prior
to the development of long-term economic strategies, thus
ensuring that our fragile economic development was not
wasted away through theft and greed.

A vital lesson drawn from our experience is that institutionbuilding and appropriate laws are imperative. Nonetheless,
making institutions and laws work eﬀectively is often more difﬁcult. In our context, the commitment to ﬁght corruption was
an important priority for the incoming Government in July
1994. A zero-tolerance policy resulted in the resignation or
dismissal of holders of public oﬃce, among others, including
some members of the Government of National Unity. Action
was taken in this respect, by Parliament and the Executive, to
enforce the notion of political accountability at a critical
moment in our history and has nurtured increasingly eﬀective
governance institutions. This has been reinforced by a continued policy of consistently prosecuting corrupt oﬃcials. Upon
reﬂection, it is clear that action against high-level oﬃcials, demonstrating that no one is untouchable, was critical. A continued
strong public support for the anti-corruption eﬀort was and is
still of utmost importance, as this remains a work in progress.

Restoring these connections by bringing together market actors and providing information about market trends can create jobs
and rebuild social cohesion.67 It also provides
local businesses with legitimate new market
connections as an alternative to illegal activities, as with the Kosovo dairy and Rwandan
coffee sectors (box 5.8). An approach that
is promising for new market development,
even in fragile environments, is matching

grants for new market development that exploit the private sector’s capacity to innovate
and help entrepreneurs develop new product
lines while sharing the risk of investment.68

Investment in basic infrastructure
Domestic and international investors need
basic infrastructure. Electricity emerges as
a key constraint to recovery efforts by the

Transforming institutions to deliver citizen security, justice, and jobs

B OX 5.8

Value chain development in Kosovo and Rwanda

Kosovo
Types of violence: Civil conﬂict; ethnic violence; political, criminal, and gang-related violence
Transition moment: Large space for change, declaration of
statehood, national and municipal elections, new constitution

Key stakeholders: Farmers, private sector, ethnic groups,
municipal and national government, Serbian government, regional
and international partners

Key stresses: Unemployment, legacies of violence and trauma,
corruption, ethnic divisions, traﬃcking, unemployment, low
incomes

Institutional challenges: Accountability and capacity constraints
in public and private institutions, destroyed infrastructure, legacy
of exclusion

Dairy is a traditional consumer product in Kosovo. In the 1990s, the command production system broke down and cooperatives dissolved. Many families became self-suﬃcient units, producing to meet their own consumption needs and trading surplus for other
goods and services. The conﬂict of 1998–99 destroyed much of the production base, damaged infrastructure, displaced people, widened ethnic divisions, and eroded Kosovars’ trust in each other and their government. Shortly after agricultural production and economic activity resumed in Kosovo, donors began working with value chain participants to upgrade the dairy industry. Value chain
implementers worked ﬁrst with individual farmers to make no- or low-cost changes to improve yields and quality, then expanded their
reach by working with larger groups and associations. Thereafter, they steered farmers toward commercial channels, helping them further upgrade their processes to improve productivity and quality and to rebuild links with processors. In parallel, they worked with processors to orient them to end markets and, based on demand, to upgrade their processes and products to improve quality, expand
production, and increase market share. By working from the micro to the macro as Kosovo moved from relief to development, donors
and implementers supported upgrading and sustained growth in the dairy sector. In just over three years, for example, the Kosovo
Dairy Value Chain project boosted domestic sales by €36 million and added 624 new jobs following an investment of €3.9 million. The
impact on social cohesion is unclear. While a dairy board was set up that explicitly included both ethnic Albanians and Serbs, there was
no evidence as to whether the board had a direct impact on participation of diﬀerent ethnic groups or increased cooperation between
ethnic groups.

Rwanda
Types of violence: Genocide; political, communal, and cross-border
Transition opportunity: Large space for change post-genocide

Key stakeholders: Smallholder farmers, private sector,
government, international partners

Key stresses: Intercommunal tension and ethnic divides,
continuing security threat—mistrust/fear, trauma and legacy of
abuse, return of refugees and IDPs (internally displaced persons)

Institutional challenges: Severe accountability and capacity
constraints in judicial, security, and political institutions—public
and private; legacies of communal suspicion and violence

Coﬀee, grown mostly by subsistence farmers, has long been an important source of income in rural areas and foreign exchange
for the Rwandan economy. But the war and genocide of 1994 had a devastating eﬀect on the coﬀee sector due to loss of life and the
destruction or neglect of coﬀee trees. By 1996, coﬀee production was only about half the 1993 level. Between 2002 and 2006, the USAID
(United States Agency for International Development)-funded US$5 million Agribusiness Development Assistance to Rwanda project
boosted export-ready coﬀee production and created several thousand seasonal jobs.
Traditionally, farmers depulped and washed their cherries by hand before selling them to traditional exporters of semiwashed coﬀee.
Modern stations now encourage farmers to sell them unwashed cherries, since they can process them more eﬃciently with modern
equipment. By selling directly to the station rather than through intermediaries, the farmers are paid more per pound while avoiding the
tedious hand labor.
The result has been tremendous. Between 2000 and 2006, the country went from producing 18 tons of fully washed coﬀee to 940
tons. There is also some evidence that greater economic security among participants in the coﬀee value chain is also linked to lower
ethnic distance, lower distrust toward other ethnic groups, and a tendency toward conditional forgiveness.
Sources: USAID Rwanda 2006; Boudreaux 2010; Grygiel 2007; Parker 2008; Chuhan-Pole 2010.

159

160

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

private sector in fragile environments—but
comprehensive reform of the electricity sector
is made difficult by insecurity. Based on the
World Bank Group’s Enterprise Surveys, the
number one business environment constraint
faced by firms working in conflict areas is
lack of electricity.69 A state-of-the-art electrical grid typically has fewer generators (because of the economies of scale to generation, bigger is better) that are located far from
consumers (since fuel sources—coal, natural
gas, hydro—can be expensive to move). That

BOX 5.9

design assumes away violent conflict: the technically perfect design is particularly susceptible
to disruption, takes a long time to build, and
is difficult to defend. Restoration of electricity
in Lebanon demonstrates both the positives
and the negatives of a best-fit approach to
reform and institution-building in the electricity sector, which is also critical to private
sector job creation. An alternative best-fit
system gave nearly all households access to
power, but at higher costs in the long term
(box 5.9).

Technically less than perfect, but robust to circumstances: Best-fit electricity provision
in Lebanon

Types of violence: Civil war, sectarian violence
Transition opportunity: Space for rapid reconstruction and
conﬁdence building, but continued instability and threat of
violence

Key stakeholders: Citizens, government, private sector,
sectarian interests, governments of neighboring countries,
international partners

Key stresses: Corruption, sectarian competition, legacies
of violence, cross-border conﬂict spillovers, regional political
involvement

Institutional challenges: Weak institutional capacity for public
service provision, tenuous inclusion arrangements

By the time the Ta’if Accord (1989) put an end to civil war (1975–90), Lebanon was marked by widespread destruction of infrastructure
and a climate of instability. At the time, little public conﬁdence existed in the state and its institutions to deliver basic services. The
electricity sector had suﬀered heavily during the war from extensive destruction and the signiﬁcant reduction of payment collections.
Despite this, most Lebanese people still beneﬁted from some access to electricity during the war and in the initial stages of recovery—
and continued to do so in subsequent periods of instability.
Already during the war, the bulk of electricity was provided by the private sector in the absence of a functioning public sector.
A mix of individual and collectively owned electricity generators, run by a few formal and many informal private businesses, became
an established part of the utility market. The ability of the private sector to ﬁll the void left by a ﬂawed public service owed much to an
open and unregulated economy—and a strong culture of entrepreneurship.
Even after the end of the civil war, the private sector remained a critical energy supplier. Privately sold generators continued to
supply electricity (primarily during blackouts) to both households and businesses and often covered whole neighborhoods. By 1994,
for example, 98 percent of businesses and 95 percent of households were estimated to have received round-the-clock electricity, with
a signiﬁcation portion from private sources.
Although small-scale private capacity ﬁlled a void left by a lack of public sector engagement, the small, unregulated, and private
provision of electricity has serious economic and environmental drawbacks as a long-term system. Private generation costs Lebanese
households nearly twice as much as public generation. And the public electricity sector has yet to be reformed. State subsidies to the
sector in 2007 were estimated to have reached 4 percent of the country’s GDP. Lebanon’s electricity sector thus illustrates the beneﬁts
of best-ﬁt approaches during periods of crisis, but also the need to exit them over time to prevent long-term ineﬃciencies.
Given the electricity crisis during reconstruction eﬀorts in Iraq, the question arises as to whether a best-ﬁt, short-term solution
could have been found. Iraq opted to rebuild its national electricity grid, but lack of progress in such a massive undertaking has left the
proportion of unmet demand for electricity largely constant since 2003, at 40–50 percent. Did the political, economic, and security context in Iraq create an enabling environment for a private sector–led solution? In 2003–04, several Lebanese companies started establishing secondary neighborhood grids in Baghdad, supplied by small, private electricity generation. The Government of Iraq also considered policies to promote small, private generation in 2005, recognizing its own lack of capacity to meet demand in the short term.
However, the deepening security crisis in Baghdad, including active campaigns to target small private power suppliers, preempted this
approach. In comparison to Lebanon, Iraq’s weaker tradition of private entrepreneurship and record of eﬀective public service delivery
into the 1990s may be additional reasons for the lack of emergence of privately generated electricity in the past decade.
Sources: World Bank 2008f, 2009d; Republic of Lebanon Ministry of Environment 1999; UN Inter-Agency Information and Analysis Unit 2010.

Transforming institutions to deliver citizen security, justice, and jobs

Road rehabilitation is another infrastructure investment critical to both private sector recovery and employment generation. It
can aid both directly, by using local contractors and applying labor-intensive methods,
and indirectly, by facilitating access to markets. For instance, in Afghanistan, the Salang
tunnel—the only pass connecting Kabul to
northern Afghanistan that is in use throughout the year—was reopened for traffic within
weeks of the 2001 Bonn agreement after a
four-year blockage, cutting travel time from
72 hours to 10.70 In the Democratic Republic of Congo, the construction of a bridge
linking two cities, Kikwit and Tshikapa, had
similar effects. Travel time was cut to a few
hours, as opposed to the previous five days,
lowering the prices for food, fuel, and most
other commodities imported to the diamond
city of Tshikapa from the agricultural zones
of Kikwit and surrounding cities.71

Public finance for employment and
other “best-fit” approaches
Regulatory reform and infrastructure investments often take time to deliver jobs, however. Governments aiming to generate employment in insecure areas may need to
provide an initial “bridge.”72 A 2009 World
Bank review of labor-intensive programs in
43 low- and middle-income countries in the
past 20 years finds that well-administered
programs can have a substantial impact on
the welfare and nutrition of poor beneficiaries, and that it is feasible to operate such programs on a large scale—as with Ethiopia’s
Productive Safety Net Programme (7 million
beneficiaries in 2006) and India’s National
Rural Employment Guarantee Act.73 Laborintensive programs in fragile and violent settings can be a quick win for stabilizing a highrisk situation; examples include sporadic
employment initiatives in the Gaza Strip since
the 1990s and the Liberian Emergency Employment Plan, which created 90,000 jobs
within two years.74 Afghanistan’s National
Emergency Employment Program, now
known as the National Rural Access Program,
was expanded across the country after early

successes and has generated 12.4 million labor days building or rehabilitating more than
10,000 kilometers of roads through 2010 in
all of Afghanistan’s 34 provinces.75
But labor-intensive public works are rarely
sustained in fragile situations. These programs commonly are donor financed, and donors prefer short durations, between two and
three years. Alternatives to short-term interventions could be labor-intensive public works
programs in rural areas that are seasonal or
vary in intensity between the seasons, to complement employment in agriculture (and that
could be integrated into community-driven
development programs; see chapter 4), or
programs that are linked to a longer-term
national strategy, such as the Feeder Roads
Program in Mozambique, in operation since
1981, and India’s long-term National Rural
Employment Guarantee scheme.76 For public works programs to be successful, evidence
suggests that it is important to have clear
objectives (for instance, aimed at addressing
one-time shocks or poverty), to select projects
that can create valuable public goods, and to
ensure predictable funding.77
Providing (short-term) jobs needs to be
complemented by enhancing skills and employability. Low skill levels—especially of
young people like former gang members and
combatants—constrain their opportunities
for sustainable employment. International
experience has shown that traditional vocational training programs without clear links
to the labor market, though frequently implemented, are ineffective.78 A more promising intervention is traditional apprenticeship
programs and programs that include work
placement opportunities.79
For those who did not complete primary
education, second-chance programs (such as
education equivalency or life skills training)
are an important stepping stone to further
education, training, and employment opportunities. Second-chance programs can have a
positive impact on at-risk youth, both directly
(which increases their chances of acquiring
employment and receiving higher wages)
and indirectly (by providing them with information and skills to make good decisions,

161

162

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

giving them better prospects for a successful
life, and consequently reducing their chances
of engaging in risky behavior).80 Conditional
cash transfers could be linked to programs
that focus on preparing both offenders and
communities for offenders’ reintegration,
through technical and life skills training and
links to employment opportunities,81 such as
YouthBuild International, which is active in
over a dozen countries and supports youth
for a period of up to 24 months.82
Support to agriculture in violenceaffected countries is also essential. Together
with the informal sector, agriculture is the
most likely source of jobs in many conflictaffected situations.83 Even in a relatively advanced economy, such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, informal employment is estimated
to account for more than one-third of total
employment,84 and agriculture is an important income provider. There, for example,
self-employment in agriculture was successfully supported for many demobilized
soldiers who chose to reintegrate in rural areas and engage in small-scale farming. They
received livestock and equipment (with a
minimum holding period to ensure that they
would not be sold on the market) and counseling, which enabled them to reestablish
their livelihoods.85 A wide range of activities
can support this sector, including strengthening agricultural services, providing local extension programs that combine input supply
with training on basic business skills, restoring rural roads, improving the agribusinessenabling environment, improving land and
water management, and organizing farmers
into associations to connect them to commodity buyers and agricultural credit.
Supporting self-employment is another
best-fit approach to creating jobs and generating incomes.86 The main constraints to
self-employment include the lack of marketcreating infrastructure that brings trade into
rural areas, lack of electricity that allows the
use of higher productivity technology, lack
of formal marketplaces and workplaces, high
local taxes and fees, lack of access to informal
savings and financial services (which could
be alleviated by the use of mobile financial

services such as M-Paisa in Afghanistan),87
and lack of appropriate training (which
needs to be designed for those with limited
education and also stress basic skills such as
literacy and numeracy). In order to be effective and avoid indebting poor households,
self-employment assistance programs need
to address all these constraints and not be
limited to providing financial assistance.88
Despite the popularity of self-employment
programs in fragile and stable settings, evidence is scarce, however. The evidence (for
middle-income countries) shows that selfemployment programs can significantly increase the probability of young participants
finding jobs, at least in the short term. But
the cost-effectiveness and the longer-term effects still need to be proven.89
Asset expansion programs have also
helped in some successful transitions from
violence—such as land reform in the Republic of Korea and Japan,90 and housing
programs in Singapore (see box 5.2). Land
reform contributed to post-conflict stability
in those countries and, when combined with
policies that favored agricultural growth and
exports, set the stage for high rates of economic growth in succeeding decades. These
positive experiences have proved difficult to
replicate though, due to political resistance
and institutional capacity weaknesses.91 A
different type of program to help violenceaffected communities reestablish livelihoods
and restore lost assets is, very simply, transferring funds directly to citizens to support their
recovery. This may be done by government
transfers, as with transitional payments to
demobilized ex-combatants in Angola, Mozambique, and Rwanda—or Timor-Leste’s
cash payments to internally displaced people
and veterans. Such programs can provide a
sense of justice for populations previously
excluded from state attention. There is a
common perception that corruption or leakage is more likely in a cash transfer program,
but years of practice have highlighted proven
safeguards to reduce leakage.92
Temporary labor migration to neighboring
countries or farther abroad can provide job
opportunities for skilled and unskilled labor-

Transforming institutions to deliver citizen security, justice, and jobs

ers from fragile or conflict-affected countries
and requires few reform elements. Successful
examples include the Russia Federation’s aid
for the post-conflict Tajik regime,93 and the
various migration streams for Pacific Islanders
especially to Australia and New Zealand.94
Such measures include fixed annual migration quotas, temporary seasonal employment, skilled and professional workers provisions, and education scholarships. Labor
migration can diffuse some of the pressures
on the labor market and generate remittances
that can be used for social and economic expenditures like schooling or business start-up
capital. Well-designed bilateral schemes can
thus deliver important economic gains but
also mitigate the economic and social costs
for sending and receiving countries.95

Economic empowerment of women
Involving women in economic initiatives can
generate jobs and income and lay the basis
for longer-term empowerment, as well as
enable them to contribute to the recovery of

B OX 5.10

their communities. Women can be actors in
violence; for instance, in El Salvador and Eritrea, nearly a third of the combatants were
women.96 But far more often, violence uproots women’s lives and livelihoods, as chapter 1 described. Aiding women to recover
socially and economically from violence not
only benefits the women themselves, but also
their families and communities. For example, in El Salvador, involving former women
guerrillas in land reform led to the inclusion
of both men and women as beneficiaries, ensuring that grievances on these issues would
not later affect the post-conflict settlement.97
A different example of economic empowerment, from Nepal, demonstrates how well
thought out projects can produce small but
significant social shifts within just a few years
(box 5.10).
Engaging women in economic activities
in fragile and post-conflict countries is not,
however, without challenges. Women face
limited mobility and physical access to markets, incomplete access to market information, and restricted access to credit and other

Economic empowerment of women: Women’s Empowerment Program in Nepal

Types of violence: Civil conﬂict, interethnic and political violence, criminal violence, traﬃcking
Transition opportunities: Modest space for change: “palace
killings” and stepped-up Maoist campaign in 2001

Key stakeholders: Federal and local government, civil society
groups, marginalized ethnic groups, international partners,
regional neighbors

Key stresses: Legacies of violence and trauma: social, political,
and economic inequality; youth unemployment; corruption;
human rights abuses; rising expectations of formerly
unrepresented groups

Institutional challenges: Feudal structures and associated
exclusion; accountability and capacity constraints in public
administration, security, judicial, and political institutions;
lack of inclusion of women

Women in Nepal have suﬀered disproportionately from the decade-long civil war and the continued waves of political, criminal, and
ethnically driven violence, including in the country’s southern Tarai region. Women are among the poorest population groups; their
traditional social and economic networks were severely aﬀected and many became heads of households as a result of the conﬂict,
and their educational attainment is signiﬁcantly below that of men. In this context, empowerment of women is especially critical in
engendering sustainable economic growth and human development, as well as signaling a break from the past.
The Women’s Empowerment Program provided cost-eﬀective training and support to 6,500 groups of 130,000 members in the
Tarai from 1999 to 2001. Its impact on the lives of the participating women has been encouraging. Almost half of the women who
participated in the program gained a level of literacy, and two-thirds of the women started a business since joining it, thus having an
independent source of income for the ﬁrst time. When 200 groups were asked how the program had changed their lives, they most
frequently mentioned gaining self-conﬁdence and an enlarged sphere of inﬂuence in the household, followed by learning to read and
being accorded more rights.
Source: Ashe and Parrott 2001.

163

164

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

financial services, and they are also subject
to restricting attitudes and systemic gender
discrimination and exclusion through unfavorable legislation.98 These obstacles are not
insurmountable, however. Efforts as varied
as promoting women’s access to finance and
helping financial institutions to bank on
women entrepreneurs profitably (such as
in Afghanistan), establishing baselines with
a gender focus on helping the government
formalize women’s participation in national
reconstruction efforts (for instance, in Liberia), promoting training and business mentoring opportunities that reach women entrepreneurs (in Iraq and Jordan), and using
legal reform initiatives to ensure that existing
gender-discriminatory legislation is revised
and that new legislation provides a level playing field for women (as in the Democratic
Republic of Congo) can be effective tools to
make the gender balance less unfavorable
to women.99

What to do systematically
but gradually
Focusing on citizen security, justice, and jobs
means that most other reforms will need to
be sequenced and paced over time, including
political reform, decentralization, privatization, and shifting attitudes toward marginalized groups. Systematically implementing
these reforms requires a web of institutions
(democratization, for example, requires
many institutional checks and balances beyond elections) and changes in social attitudes. There are exceptions—where the
exclusion of groups from democratic participation has been a clear, overriding source
of grievance, as in South Africa, fairly rapid
action on elections makes sense. But in most
situations, systematic and gradual action appears to work best.

political, or military influence at national
and local levels are unlikely to succeed in
their broader objectives. Initial transitions
to multiparty elections have been shown
to increase the short-term chances of conflict, even though countries with very robust
democratic institutions lower their risks of
violence in the long term.100 Elite cooperation may require prior steps to build trust
and confidence, such as those undertaken in
South Africa.101 In contrast, leaders lacking
trust in “winner-take-all” scenarios may manipulate outcomes and protests, which can
trigger serious violence—as in Iraq in 2005
and Kenya in 2007.102 Holding elections before a reasonable degree of security has been
achieved, and a non-coercive environment
established for polling, makes little sense
(box 5.11).
Where conditions of trust and security do
not indicate that rapid elections will deliver
increased legitimacy, other options exist. Approaches that build on traditional decisionmaking mechanisms (such as the Afghan
Loya Jirga103) have been used to transition
toward greater inclusiveness. National sovereign conferences in francophone Africa in
the 1990s, which in most cases represented
a cross-section of society, were effective for
negotiating transitions from one-party autocratic rule to plural democratic regimes and
provided a workable framework for a peaceful change of power.104 Some nonelectoral
structures, as in the case of the South African
constitutional convention and transitional
executive structures, have also provided for
considerable accountability downward to the
members of the groups represented, through
debates within political parties and business
and labor groupings. Using alternative options while the conditions are put in place for
elections also allows time to build a culture
of democratic practices (see box 5.11).

Elections are a means of institutional
transformation, not its end

Devolution and decentralization can
broaden power-sharing but are best
approached step-by-step

Elections without a substantial degree of cooperation among those wielding economic,

Territorial devolution and decentralization of
political, administrative, and economic pow-

Transforming institutions to deliver citizen security, justice, and jobs

REFLECTIONS FROM ADVISORY COUNCIL MEMBERS: 2011 WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT
B OX 5 .11

Pacing institutional transformation
Elections are not a panacea

Lakhdar Brahimi, former UN Special Representative of the Secretary General to Iraq and
Afghanistan; WDR Advisory Council Member
It is ten years since the Report of the Panel on UN Peace
Operations, which I had the great privilege to chair, was
produced. The Report called for the exit of UN forces to be
determined on the basis of a broad and carefully studied
range of peacebuilding and institution-building requirements being met. We said that elections were not a panacea. I think there has been movement in the right direction
over the past decade, but there still is some way to go to
better understand how and when to conduct elections to
the maximum beneﬁt of a peace process.
Attention is needed to ensure that new democratic processes reinforce rather than undermine the fragile peace
that has been achieved and promote institutional legitimacy
and accountability. Institutions for political participation and
checks and balances devised at the national and local level,
by their very nature, can take many diﬀerent forms, such as
constituent assemblies, consultative conferences, and power
sharing pacts. For example, the Afghan Loya Jirga drew its
legitimacy from a traditional system of political exchange
and decision making (although some Afghans and larger
numbers of foreigners were critical of the participation of
Members viewed by them as responsible for past abuses).

It is important not to confuse speed with haste in political
processes: too hasty approaches can precipitate the opposite
eﬀect from the one we seek to support. The international community’s high hopes for Iraq’s 2005 experiment in proportional
electoral democracy produced a contest for power that
increased rather than allayed sectarian violence, and the constitution hastily produced later is proving almost impossible to
implement. Similarly, the 2009 presidential election in Afghanistan proved to challenge rather than bolster perceptions of
institutional legitimacy in the immediate aftermath.
The options are not mutually exclusive—there is great
worldwide demand for more inclusive and responsive governance, and elections can be a crucial means to provide this.
But their timing requires careful attention. Democratic traditions have developed in most countries over a considerable
period. Democratization eﬀorts today similarly require attention to historical heritages and existing political cleavages and
must be seen as an ongoing process of social transformation
and the development of a broad range of institutions that provide checks and balances rather than an identiﬁable “event.”
Democratization does not start or end with elections.

Building a culture of democracy

Nitin Desai, former UN Under Secretary General for Social and Economic Affairs;
former Secretary and Chief Economic Adviser, Ministry of Finance, India;
WDR Advisory Council Member
A constitution and elections are only the beginning of a
functioning democracy. A lot depends on the emergence of
working practices that respect the rights of the opposition
and that set standards for political behavior that, in time
become traditions. Even constitutional provisions like those
for an independent election commission to supervise the
electoral process require unwritten working practices for
independence to become eﬀective. That has been the experience of India, where the respect for parliamentary norms
shown by Pandit Nehru and the early congress leaders set a
standard that matters, not least when it is under threat.
Thus, the leader of the opposition is treated with as much
respect as the head of government and is entitled to public
services that allow him or her to function eﬀectively.

Traditions can be invented but are most eﬀective when
they are not codiﬁed, leaving some elasticity to accommodate
changes in the balance of political power. These traditions
come often from imitation of practices in old established
democracies like the United Kingdom or the United States.
How can one impart some knowledge of something that
should remain unwritten? Perhaps by showing the parties to
the post-conﬂict settlement the way in which democratic processes work in developing countries where they have stood
the test of time, India being one big example. Maybe this is
something that these young democracies can themselves contribute to the post-conﬂict eﬀort.

165

166

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

ers also offer the potential to broaden powersharing, but with caveats. Between 1946 and
2008, 49 countries experienced secessionist
demands that resulted in violent conflict.105
Fragile states that have resisted movements
for autonomy or independence by force have
often found themselves embroiled in costly
wars, as Nigeria did with Biafra (1967–70);
Sudan with its southern region (1955–
1972,106 1983–2002); Pakistan with East Pakistan, which became Bangladesh (1971); and
Myanmar with the Karen and Shan people
and other ethnic groups (1948–today).107 The
argument in favor of greater decentralization
of power (for example, through federalist
structures that hand significant autonomy to
local representatives) is that it can avert centerperiphery ethnic conflict, or secession. For
example, in Sierra Leone in 2010 the OECD
reported that “decentralization and devolution are important peace-building and state
building activities” and that “the decentralization process has gone a long way to redressing some of the fundamental flaws in Sierra
Leone’s original political structure.”108
However, devolution and decentralization also carry risks. The OECD-DAC “Do
No Harm” paper warns that donor support
for devolution without sufficient analysis of
political context or capacity constraints can
cause serious problems if “political power at
the center is highly fragmented, or constellations of local power are misunderstood.”109
Similarly, evidence shows that decentralization processes may make local democracy
more vulnerable to political capture when
restraints and accountability measures are
absent.110 Devolution can also lead to a lack
of local accountability and significant opportunities for corruption111 and reinforce or
create elites who can use devolved power to
pursue their own interests—to the detriment
of both local and national interests.112
Successful devolution requires gradual
preparation. Agreeing in detail on the degree
of “subsidiarity” (pushing authority to the
lowest capable level) in security, justice, and
economic functions is essential to prevent
further center-periphery friction. A second
success factor is to ensure proper accountabil-

ity of devolved structures to local citizens, offsetting the potential for local elite capture.113
It is also important to ensure that new institutions are offered adequate technical support
and the fiscal resources to deliver services.114
Various decentralization experiences indicate
that achieving success on all three fronts at
once—political arrangements, technical capacity, and adequately accounted funding—
is difficult, and that agreeing on a sequence
is critical, as with the experience in Northern
Ireland (box 5.12).115

Transitional justice to recognize past
crimes
Some countries have addressed the sins of the
past early through traditional justice measures
to define a healthy new form of nationhood.
Germany made a deliberate effort after World
War II to address the past, including a focus
on the dangers of totalitarianism and the
atrocities of the holocaust in the high-school
curriculum, and the establishment of sites
of remembrance and education throughout
the country, including former concentration
camps.116 Other countries that have instituted
early transitional justice procedures include
Argentina and Chile after their transitions
from authoritarian rule. In Argentina, in addition to a truth commission117 and various
reparation programs for victims, junta leaders were tried and convicted for massive human rights violations. While initial processes
faltered and were suspended for a 10-year period, prosecutions of human rights violators
have resumed and currently comprise more
than 600 cases.118 Chile’s experience is not
radically different: truth-seeking119 and reparations have been followed by more than 600
prosecutions, with more than 200 convictions
thus far.120
Other countries have relied less on prosecutions and formal justice processes. A comparison of transitional justice approaches
in five countries that have made promising
transitions out of violence (Cambodia, Mozambique, Rwanda, South Africa, and Vietnam)121 found that nonjudicial measures
include truth commissions122 and repara-

Transforming institutions to deliver citizen security, justice, and jobs

BOX 5.12

Devolution and decentralization can help manage conflict, but are better done
gradually

Types of violence: Political and sectarian violence
Transition opportunity: Space for progress—Good Friday
Accord, referendum that represented opportunity for powersharing arrangements

Key stakeholders: British and Irish governments, political parties
and armed forces/groups in Northern Ireland, citizens, diaspora

Key Stresses: Inequitable access to political and economic
power, sectarian tensions, perceptions of discrimination

Institutional challenges: Low inclusion and accountability in
security and justice institutions, low trust, legacies of extrajudicial
dispute resolution

In many center-periphery conﬂicts—where groups are engaging in violence to gain autonomy or secede from the state—the devolution
of political power has been proposed as a possible solution to resolve conﬂict, maintain or restore law and order, and rebalance relations
between local and central governments.
But devolution is not an automatic answer to regional tensions and can at times amplify conﬂict. In Northern Ireland, it was not only
the 1921 partition of Ireland that drove the conﬂict, but also the devolution of authority to a new Northern Ireland Assembly and the
eﬀects on center-periphery relations. Unionists found a need to reemphasize that they were British, while the Catholic minority lost faith
in political structures that provided few safeguards for them.
In Northern Ireland, a new process of devolution was a centerpiece of the Good Friday Accord, introduced gradually to allow conﬁdence to be built up. The Accord was signed in 1998, but decommissioning of the Irish Republican Army’s weapons and the security
reforms were not completed until 2005, and the devolution of policing and justice to the Northern Ireland Assembly was ﬁnally completed on March 8, 2010.
Source: Barron and others 2010.

tions programs for victims,123 as well as administrative sanctions, such as vetting,124
and traditional or local justice measures.125
While the differences in the approaches were
significant, there was no straightforward relationship between the approach and the attainment of stability.126
Where abuses are on such a huge scale that
the formal justice system is unable to deal
with them, special procedures may be justified. Rwanda faced this challenge following
the genocide that left at least 800,000 people
dead at the hands of their fellow citizens. In
November 1994, the UN Security Council
set up an international tribunal in Arusha,
Tanzania, to prosecute people accused of
violations of international law. Rwanda’s
own jails, meanwhile, were bursting with
120,000 people accused of genocide-related
crimes—and there were only 15 judges to
oversee their trials. The situation called for
extraordinary measures. Rwanda’s solution
was to adopt a traditional community conflict resolution system, gacaca, and to train
more than 250,000 community members to

serve on panels in 12,000 community courts.
Gacaca is based on an extended plea bargaining principle and has elements of both
punishment and reconciliation; it is expected
to draw to a close in 2011, having processed
more than 1.5 million cases. It was a contentious approach, but with only 30 convictions to date at the international tribunal, a
decimated national judicial system, and jails
filled beyond capacity, there were few options
other than a community process to deal with
the enormous pressures.127

Economic reforms—in moderation
Economic reforms are needed to escape
the cycle of violence, but they must not be
victims of the “too slow-too fast” trade-off.
Fragile and conflict-prone situations often
share a raft of structural economic problems—low per capita GDP, fiscal imbalances,
chaotic regulations, dependence on agriculture and natural resources, high illiteracy,
rapidly growing populations, and a dearth
of physical infrastructure. All raise the risk

167

168

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

of violence, but addressing them too rapidly also raises the risk of reigniting violence
or deepening societal cleavages. Major issues
for investors are “significant downside risks,”
which implies that individual economic
policies may be less important initially than
conveying certainty about the overall trajectory—including security.128 Most economic
reforms create real or perceived “winners”
and “losers.” Reform areas particularly sensitive to social tensions include access to land
and water. It is therefore important to pay attention to the distributive aspect of growth.
In macroeconomic policy, gradually introducing feasible and prioritized reforms
will allow for an appropriate level of breathing space and enable foundational institutional reform without running the risk of
political backlash. The benefits of adopting a
gradualist approach are evident in Mozambique, where early macroeconomic reforms
after the 1992 peace accord focused on overcoming fiscal crises, curbed hyperinflation,
created a situation of stability, and built the
confidence and trust needed to enact deeper
reforms.129 In order to be effective, early reform efforts must also reflect the specific political and economic contexts and macroeconomic problems in a given situation, instead
of attempting to be one-size-fits-all solutions. For instance, while the government in
the Democratic Republic of Congo in 2002
to 2004 undertook a decisive stabilization
policy involving a major tightening of the
fiscal stance to curb hyperinflation, Bosnia
and Herzegovina adopted, in the early postconflict period, a currency board, preventing
the central bank from printing money.
Experience indicates that privatizing for
the purpose of economic growth is better
done gradually. Moving economic assets
from public to private hands has two distinct
motives: one is fiscal, to stem losses or gain
revenue from the sale of assets, and the other
is productivity, to spur economic growth.
Clarity about motives helps avoid common
mistakes. Shutting down inessential enterprises that drain revenues can be an early
priority. But early or rapid privatization of
essential or valuable state assets runs major

risks. A review of privatization efforts in fragile settings suggests that such reforms need to
be carefully prepared.130 This can be a lengthy
process, but it can assist both with transparency and with managing expectations about
the gains and accommodating the losers.

Shifting attitudes toward excluded
groups is crucial but takes time
Tackling horizontal inequalities131 between
social groups is particularly challenging because it demands behavioral change to reverse deeply ingrained habits, attitudes, and
ways of doing business among the “excluders.” Frances Stewart distinguishes direct approaches (to privilege groups), indirect approaches (to reduce group disparities), and
integrationist approaches (to break down
group boundaries).132
Histories of exclusion create pent-up demands for action in redressing the legacies
of the past, such as preferential quotas for
employment or education. The risk is that
they can make existing differences more permanent and salient, actually slowing integration. Pratap Mehta argues that “the best way
of conflict mitigation or prevention is the
creation of political structures and identities where questions of rights and citizenship
are progressively detached from questions
of which particular communities people belong to.”133 The implementation of affirmative action programs is often associated with
mounting opposition as well as perceptions
of corruption.
Addressing gender equality beyond economic empowerment also takes time. Gender
roles and relations change during periods of
conflict, and appear to signal social progress.
But such gains may not be sustained or may
be counterbalanced by a reversion to traditional identities and norms when families
and communities are threatened. In effect,
economic realities can push in one direction while social traditions pull in the other.
In many countries the economic situations
of women widowed by violence may mean
that they need to look for jobs and business
opportunities, but social mores can make

Transforming institutions to deliver citizen security, justice, and jobs

this difficult. The experience of the National
Solidarity Program in Afghanistan indicates
the significant potential benefits of programs
that enable women to participate in the public sphere but also indicates that social and
cultural change takes time (box 5.13).

Education and health reforms are
crucial medium-term challenges
Education systems have the potential to mitigate conflict and contribute to peacebuilding
in the long term, but also to exacerbate and
perpetuate violent settings, depending on
the nuances of policies, designs, and implementation efforts, as well as the different
drivers of conflict and fragility. For instance,
an internationally led education campaign
in Afghanistan in 2002–03 failed to remove
messages of hate and intolerance from curricula, and it is feared that this socialization of intolerance may exacerbate social tensions over time.134 Conversely, in Bosnia and
Herzegovina, the international community
made deliberate efforts to exclude divisive
messages from educational content, but has
had unintended consequences of increasing
suspicions of external politicization of education, in effect exacerbating local divisions.135
Education does not need to stop at the
classroom door. Parental behavior, the family
environment, and the extent to which young
people feel connected to their parents (or
to caregivers who play a parental role) have
shown to be either one of the strongest protective factors in the lives of young people
or one of the strongest risk factors. Evidence
shows that investing in family-based parenting training that promotes positive, healthy,
protective parent-child interactions can reduce domestic violence, the extent to which
young people associate with delinquent peers,
alcohol and substance abuse, school dropout,
and arrests.136 Therefore, parenting training
is one of the most cost-effective ways to prevent risky behavior among young people.
Where reform of the health service and
the training of national personnel would take
years, delivering public services using international capacity for transitional periods can

create the space to build national capacities
in the longer run. Timor-Leste, after the 1999
referendum, faced serious health problems,
a destroyed infrastructure, and virtually no
trained personnel. Instead of pursuing a topdown reform of the health service immediately, the Interim Health Authority signed
agreements with international NGOs for
each district and focused its efforts on developing sensible plans, monitoring delivery,
and training a new cadre of health staff. The
Timor-Leste model fostered a learning environment by using 100-day planning cycles
with clear targets and a strong focus on results, building confidence and capacity by
meeting those targets. Over time, the government gradually phased out NGOs and took
back responsibility for the health services.
The program had drawbacks—among them,
high unit costs—but it did provide a path
toward institutional transformation while
continuing to serve immediate needs.137 A
similar approach has been used in Afghanistan and has proven reasonably robust in insecure circumstances (see also chapter 8).

Institutional transformation as a
continuous process
The risk of a moderately paced and flexible
approach to reform is getting stuck, either
moving too slowly or not making the next
step when needed. Many best-fit solutions
may indeed remain in place for the long
term—for example, this may occur with
traditional justice systems because they are
more effective at maintaining social cohesion at the community level—while others
are temporary stop-gap measures only. For
the latter, realism about timelines is essential
to avoid losing ground on hard-won results.
There are a variety of ways to sustain impetus
for improvement that we discuss here.
One way to build both internal esprit de
corps and external legitimacy is to work up
from small, more achievable targets to progressively more ambitious ones. Stress is
carefully calibrated, and tasks are selected
in ways that do not threaten to overwhelm

169

170

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

BOX 5.13

Development approaches can empower women in the most fragile environments

Afghanistan
Types of violence: Intergroup, ethnic, and political violence; organized crime and traﬃcking; cross-border; transnational ideological
Transition opportunity: Initial large space for change: Bonn
Accord; Loya Jirga; presidential, parliamentary, and provincial
elections; national development budget

Key stakeholders: Federal and local government, security
force, community leaders, civil society groups, citizens, women,
international partners, transnational militant groups

Key stresses: Legacies of violence and trauma, transnational
terrorism, criminal networks, low incomes, youth unemployment, corruption

Institutional challenges: Severe accountability and capacity
constraints in public administration, security, judicial, and
political institutions; lack of representation of women

Gender has been one of the most politicized issues in Afghanistan for a century. Afghan women and girls today still face suﬀering,
humiliation, and marginalization from the discriminatory views of the role and position of women in society. Gender gaps are widespread in health, education, access to and control over resources, economic opportunities, and political power and voice. And yet, this
role is not stagnant. The National Solidarity Program (NSP), the country’s largest development program, operates in villages across the
country through democratically elected community development councils (CDCs). Through mobilization by facilitating partners,
women are involved in voting, while CDC modalities provide a variety of conﬁgurations enabling more balanced gender participation
(mixed CDCs, parallel committees (one male, one female) that report to a mixed-gender CDC, or a women’s committee that consults
with a fully male CDC). Results of a comparison between NSP and non-NSP villages using a rigorous study design in an independent
evaluation suggest that having women in charge of decisions in community projects improves the perceptions by both men and
women of women in leadership roles (see ﬁgure). This is not being advocated as “the” solution, but it shows that incremental steps can
lead to incremental progress, even for culturally diﬃcult issues of inclusion.
F I G U R E A Opinions on the role of women in community life: “Is there a woman in the village who is well

respected by men and women?”
More men and women in villages that participated in the NSP believe that there is a wo man who is
well respected in their village than did respondents in villages that did not participate in the program.
Statistically signiﬁcant diﬀerences are shown with percentages above each bar.
50

% of respondents

40

+10%

+7%

30
20

42%
37%

10
0
Male

Female
NSP village

Non-NSP village

Source: Beath and others 2010.
Sources: Beath and others 2010; UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan and UNOHCHR 2010.

the organization. In 2006, with support from
the World Bank Institute, the government
of Burundi introduced a rapid-results approach. This approach, now applied across
80 government projects, breaks up longterm development plans into manageable

100-day chunks. A pilot program in the
Ministry of Education resulted in the distribution of 250,000 textbooks to primary
schools in 60 days, a task that had previously
taken an entire school year. In a health care
pilot program, 482 pregnant women visited

Transforming institutions to deliver citizen security, justice, and jobs

health centers and were provided with HIV/
AIDS screening in one month—almost seven
times the previous monthly average of 71.138
A similar simplified approach was followed
in Indonesia in the early years following the
turbulence of the 1960s, where ministries
undertook simple annual targets to improve
service provision.
This chapter began by describing the
“too fast-too slow” dilemma in institutional
transformation. What are the principles of a
middle way of progress that can produce success? An emerging literature on approaches
to development across a variety of domains—
from economic policy to social policy to institution building—promotes a flexible and
pragmatic, and thus “experimental best-fit,”
approach to progress.139 This includes the
following:
• Pressure for performance around meaningful goals. Overall, this is a shift from
measuring progress around “outputs”
(whether budgets spent, items procured,
legislation passed, or policies adopted) to
assessing performance around “outcomes
including citizen trust.”
• Pragmatism and flexibility in the ways
goals are accomplished. Pressure for performance must be accompanied by giving
flexibility to the agents responsible for performance. Reformers need to be given the
space for “disruptive” innovations that
may look inferior but hold the seeds to
progress.140
• Monitoring, information, and evaluation systems for decision-cycle-oriented
feedback loops and continuous learn-

ing. Rigorous evaluation of results is
one key element of evaluating alternative
approaches, but not the only one.141 Programs need built-in mechanisms of
learning so that what is promising can be
scaled up and what is not working can be
changed—in shorter cycles of continuous feedback. Such evidence about what
works and what does not work will in
turn be useful for other countries as they
strive to adapt experience from abroad to
their own context.
This “middle way” requires capacity, which
is scarce in fragile states. That is why the
“best-fit” approach and careful prioritization
and sequencing go hand in hand. If existing
capacity is focused on prioritizing items in
sequence (rather than trying to do everything
all at once), some items can move ahead rapidly, and once they have enough momentum
to sustain gradual progress, the country can
move on to tackle the next items.
Delivering results and transforming institutions are primarily the responsibility
of state and nonstate actors in countries affected by violence. However, the international
community—bilateral donors, international
organizations, nongovernmental organizations, businesses—can provide essential support for such processes, and it has done so
on many occasions, including many of the
initiatives described in this chapter. Yet, the
international community is itself challenged
by the evolution of violence since the Cold
War era, and has its own transformation to
adapt to new contexts. To this we turn in
chapter 6.

171

172

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

FEATURE 5

Violence in Central America—Depth of institutional
transformation matters

Types of violence: Civil conﬂict, traﬃcking (national and cross-border), criminal and gang violence
Transition opportunities: Peace agreements, cease-ﬁres, elections, rapidly rising insecurity and criminality

Key stakeholders: Governments, armed groups, refugees,
ex-combatants, conﬂict victims, citizens, international partners

Key stresses: Legacies of violence and trauma: presence of
international criminal networks, repatriation of suspected gang
members, perceived social and economic deprivation, youth
unemployment; human rights abuses

Institutional challenges: Severe accountability and capacity
constraints in judicial and security institutions

M

ost countries in Central America experienced violent
civil conflicts through the 1980s and into the 1990s. Although all of those that experienced war signed peace accords,
the legacy of civil strife has had long-lasting and profound
negative repercussions. Although civil war has ended, new
forms of violence, such as trafficking and organized crime,
have been on the rise. During the civil wars, around two million people are estimated to have been displaced or sought refuge in other countries. The trauma exacted by these conflicts
created a culture of violence with a long legacy.
More recently, external stresses—specifically, increased
transit of drugs through Central America—have contributed
to violence. The dismantling of the Cali and Medellín drug
cartels in Colombia, which had controlled the production and

transport of drugs, led to dispersed competition for control of
transit routes with a consequent impact on several countries
in the region—particularly those in the Northern Triangle of
El Salvador, Honduras, and Guatemala. Today, the majority of
the drugs transiting from South America to the United States
comes through Central America en route to Mexico or the Caribbean.
In the last 10 years, homicide rates have resurged significantly, and Central America now has an estimated 70,000–
300,000 gang members. Not all countries are equally affected,
however: according to official statistics, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras exhibit significantly higher homicide
rates than the rest of Central America. In 2009, Guatemala recorded 6,450 murders and only 231 convictions. In El Salva-

Repeated violence in Central America and rising homicide rates
b. Homicide rates in Central American countries

a. Repeated violence in Central America, 1965–2009

80
Homicide rate (per 100,000)

Civil War 1965–96
Current drug violence

> 20

BELIZE

Attempted coup 1999
Coup in 2009

40–60
60–80
> 80

GUATEMALA
HONDURAS

EL SALVADOR

NICARAGUA

Civil war 1979–89

Civil war 1979–92
Current drug violence

70
Homicide rate (per 100,000 population)

20–40

60
50
40
30
20
10

COSTA
RICA

0
PANAMA

IBRD 38419
March 2011

Source: WDR team.

Coup attempts in 1988–89

1999

2000

2001

2002

2003

2004

2005

2006

Honduras

El Salvador

Guatemala

Panama

Nicaragua

Costa Rica

2007

2008

2009

Belize

Source: WDR team calculations based on homicide data from WDR Database.
Note: Homicide rates are per 100,000 population.

Transforming institutions to deliver citizen security, justice, and jobs

dor, levels of impunity are also very high: in 2005, only 4 percent of homicides were resolved by legal convictions.
Both external stresses and differences in approaches to institutional transformation between the Central American
countries may help explain the current differences in levels of
violence.

External stresses
The deportation of suspected gang members from the United
States back to Central America has influenced gang culture
and membership. El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras suffered the effects of the massive repatriation of suspected gang
members and illegal immigrants from the United States while
Nicaragua was much less affected (box 2.4). Where drug trafficking is more intense, the levels of violence seem to be higher.
Guatemala’s Peten region, a corridor for transshipments into
Mexico, suffered more than 100 homicides per 100,000 people
in 2008 and 2009.142

Institutional capacity, inclusion, and accountability
After the end of the civil wars, each country undertook reforms—including reforming the security forces and, eventually, the judiciary. Both Guatemala and El Salvador included
such reforms in their long-negotiated and comprehensive
peace agreements, while in Nicaragua reforms were undertaken
at the end of the war. In accordance with the peace agreement
signed in January 1992, El Salvador reduced the size of the
military (from 60,000 to 15,000), disbanded elite military
groups and two police bodies, and over time created an entirely
new National Civilian Police that integrated elements of the
former guerrilla movement, former police officers, and new
recruits (allowing a 20-20-60 percent proportion among these
cohorts in its first promotion). The approach therefore was
broad-ranging. The comprehensive peace accords in Guatemala signed on December 29, 1996, not surprisingly included
some of the same elements: redefinition of the functions of the
military and police, reduction of the military, disbandment of
special elite units, and reform of civilian police.
The type of transition moment each country faced at the
end of its internal conflicts affected the reach of otherwise
similar measures. In Nicaragua, the Frente Sandinista won the
conflict outright. Its ability to induce institutional reform
therefore was significantly greater than in Guatemala or El Salvador. Both the Nicaraguan security forces and the judiciary

173

were amply vetted. In addition, Nicaragua also undertook an
extensive reform of its police forces, adopting legislation and
national guidelines on arms control, piloting targeted community policing, and initiating public health projects focusing on
the risks of armed violence. Notably, the modernization of the
National Police Force of Nicaragua included a number of initiatives to mainstream gender and increase the participation of
women, such as the addition of training modules on genderbased violence within police academies; the introduction of
women’s police stations (staffed by female police officers and
focusing on cases of gender-based violence); the reform of recruitment criteria, including female-specific physical training
and the adaptation of height and physical exercise requirements for women; introduction of transparent promotion requirements; introduction of family-friendly human resource
policies; and establishment of a working group to evaluate and
improve the working conditions of female officers.
The conflict in El Salvador, by contrast, ended in a military
stalemate with no clear victor. This led to compromises: the
Frente Farabundo Martí para la Liberación Nacional (FMLN)
decided, for example, to abandon its demands for vetting the
judiciary in exchange for deeper reforms of the military, although there were some subsequent reforms in the judiciary. On
the other hand, the military had to accept, for the first time,
having its officers vetted by civilians (the ad hoc commission
established by the peace agreement, which recommended the
dismissal or transfer of 103 officers), and the integration of former FMLN members into the new NCP (National Civilian
Police).
The Comprehensive Peace Agreement that settled the Guatemalan conflict was negotiated with the Salvadoran experience
as a backdrop and featured intense international pressure to
obtain similar results—but in circumstances in which the state
had essentially defeated the insurgency. The severity of the
crimes committed by forces that belonged to or supported the
state, in a context of international pressure, helps explain why
the government appeared to make concessions. Yet while some
units of the armed forces were eliminated and the police force
was reformed, the changes were not significant enough to make
a sustained difference in terms of security; with new pressures
from drug trafficking networks, violence increased rapidly.143

Sources: Bateson 2010; CODEH 2008; CICIG 2010; Dudley 2010; Instituto Universitario en Democracia Paz y Seguridad 2010; STRATFOR
2009; UNODC 2007; UNDP 2008a; Zamora and Holiday 2007; Popkin
2000; WDR team calculations.

174

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

Notes
1. World Bank 2006c; WDR consultation with government officials, United Nations, donor representatives, local nongovernmental organizations, and community-based organization representatives in
Haiti, 2010.
2. Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction 2009.
3. Porter and Rab 2010.
4. Lockhart and Glencorse 2010.
5. Spear and Harborne 2010; Harbone and Sage 2010; de Greiff 2010; Guehenno 2010; Sherman 2010;
Sage and Desai 2010; Roque and others 2010; Dobbins and others 2007; Collier and others 2003;
Collier 2007; Johnston 2010.
6. Narayan and Petesch 2010.
7. Guerrero 2006; Llorente and Rivas 2005; Formisano 2002.
8. Crawford 1999; Sutton, Cherney, and White 2008; Willman and Makisaka 2010. Mano dura (“iron
fist”) policies may be effective in the short term but may have long-term negative consequences—
they promote youth incarceration, reducing crime in the short term, but may ultimately lead to
greater recidivism and more serious crime in the longer term (see Cunningham and others 2008).
9. Guehenno 2010, 2.
10. Pan 2005.
11. OECD-DAC 2007a.
12. UN Security Council 2006.
13. Ball and Holmes 2002; Transparency International 2011.
14. Public financial management (PFM) reviews are a useful tool to improve transparency and governance in the security sector. A PFM review in the Central African Republic found that 25 percent
of the national budget was spent on the security sector, of which 21 percent was on the military
and gendarmerie (law enforcement agency charged with police duties, but organized along military
lines) and only 3 percent was on the police, and that 75 percent of the security sector expenditures
were on salaries, which were relatively clearly controlled. A major drain on recurrent expenditure
was an over-age component, comprising over one-third of the army. The main area of concern was
about receipts and income, which remained off-budget, including taxation on flow of persons and
commerce. As a result of this report, the European Commission has started financing the pensioning
off of the over-age in the army, and the World Bank has provided training in public financial management practices to key staff in the security sector as part of its program on improving capacity and
functioning of public financial systems in the government (World Bank 2009f).
15. Perry 2008; International Crisis Group 2009a; Human Rights Watch 2009; Reyntjens 2007; Kelly
2010.
16. Colletta, Kostner, and Wiederhofer 1996.
17. South Africa Ministry of Defence 1996; Williams 2005; Batchelor and Dunne 1998.
18. Rozema 2008.
19. Guehenno 2010.
20. Guehenno 2010, 5.
21. OECD-DAC 2007a.
22. International Center for Transitional Justice 2010; Mayer-Rieckh and de Greiff 2007; Patel, de Greiff,
and Waldorf 2009; de Greiff 2006; Hayner 2010.
23. de Greiff 2010.
24. Addison 2009.
25. The general target for female representation in police formers and other security agencies in postconflict countries has been 30 percent. However, this may take time and not be feasible, especially as
most developed societies do not fulfill this target. For example, Finland has 10 percent, the United
States 12–14 percent, and Canada 18 percent. Mobekk 2010.
26. Mobekk 2010.
27. Bastick, Grimm, and Kunz 2007.
28. UNIFEM, UN Action Against Sexual Violence in Conflict, and UNDPKO 2010.
29. OECD-DAC 2007a.
30. OECD-DAC 2007a.
31. Sherman 2010.
32. OECD-DAC 2007a.
33. Willman and Makisaka 2010; International Centre for the Prevention of Crime 2008.

Transforming institutions to deliver citizen security, justice, and jobs

34. O Dia Online 2010; Jornal O Globo 2010.
35. UNIFEM, UN Action Against Sexual Violence in Conflict, and UNDPKO 2010. Similarly, traditional dispute resolution systems can be adapted to address violence against women. For
instance, 90 percent of women were satisfied with the shalishi process (a community dispute
resolution system) when it was introduced by a rural women’s group in West Bengal, two-thirds
felt that they were better off, and nearly 90 percent said that physical violence by the husband had
decreased or stopped. See International Center for Research on Women 2002; Bott, Morrison,
and Ellsberg 2005. For more on Shalishi process, see Samity 2003.
36. WDR team interviews with Prime Minister Jean-Max Bellerine in Haiti, 2010.
37. For example, the OECD Handbook on Security System Reform underscores this approach when
advocating that police reform be done as part of an integrated justice sector reform that includes
the judiciary and prisons; see OECD-DAC 2007a; UNODC and the World Bank 2007.
38. Dinnen, Porter, and Sage 2010; Wainwright 2005.
39. International Center for Transitional Justice 2010; Mayer-Rieckh and de Greiff 2007; Patel,
de Greiff, and Waldorf 2009; de Greiff 2006; Hayner 2010.
40. For more information, see feature 3 in chapter 3.
41. Guehenno 2010; OECD-DAC 2007a.
42. International Center for Transitional Justice 2010; Mayer-Rieckh and de Greiff 2007; Patel,
de Greiff, and Waldorf 2009; de Greiff 2006; Hayner 2010.
43. World Bank 2010i.
44. Between 2001 and 2009, the Government of Afghanistan passed 244 laws, legislative decrees,
regulations, and amendments, addition and repeal of laws and regulations. In addition, the government has entered into 19 charters, conventions, agreements, and protocols. See World Bank
2010g.
45. Another successful example of the use of Peace Justices and mobile courts to provide better
access to justice, especially for the most disadvantaged groups, was in Honduras, as part of a
project to modernize the judicial branch. Project results include (1) enhanced access to justice
for vulnerable groups (30,000 annual users), first-instance courts in rural zones (1,000 annual
users), and mobile courts in urban-marginal areas (7,000 annual users); (2) specialized service to
10,000 women in family courts; (3) improved protection to 15,000 women and children against
domestic violence; (4) specialized service to 1,500 persons from vulnerable groups; (5) establishment of an integrated financial management system that promotes transparency and efficiency
of the courts; (6) development of the judicial career with all the manuals for the selection, classification, and evaluation of personnel that will allow the transparent and competitive selection of
3,200 personnel; (7) adoption of a new management model for case management that will allow
monitoring and evaluation of 1,200 judges; and (8) improved services to internal and external
users of the courts through an IT (information technology) system and judiciary information
kiosks. See Scheye 2009.
46. Dale 2009.
47. For example, in Angola, over 70 percent of children were unregistered in the mid-1990s.
UNICEF 2007.
48. Comunità di Sant’Egidio 2010.
49. UNICEF 2007.
50. OECD 2007.
51. Berger 2003; Coldham 1984.
52. Straus 2010.
53. Bastick, Grimm, and Kunz 2007.
54. Everett 2009, 33.
55. Timor-Leste Independent Comprehensive Need Assessment Team 2009; WDR team consultation with Attorney General Ana Pessoa in Timor-Leste, 2010; Everett 2009, 33.
56. See OECD 2010e; World Bank 2006a.
57. Blundell 2010.
58. For Indonesia, see SUCOFINDO 2002. For Mozambique, see Crown Agents 2007.
59. Porter and Rab 2010.
60. Boko 2008.
61. Barron and Burke 2008. Another tool includes social audits involving communities in crossverification of government records, such as the one used successfully under the National Rural
Employment Guarantee Scheme in Andhra Pradesh, India (Centre for Good Governance 2009).

175

176

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

62.
63.
64.
65.
66.

67.

68.

69.

70.
71.
72.
73.

74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.
80.
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.

Agarwal, Heltberg, and Diachok 2009.
World Bank 2004.
Herzberg 2004.
BizCLIR 2007.
See Parker 2008 for a synthesis of practical lessons from value chain projects in conflict-affected
environments; see also Bagwitz and others 2008; The SEEP Network 2009; Stramm and others
2006.
Evidence about the impact of value chain projects on social cohesion is mixed. For example,
in Nepal, participants in a fresh vegetable value chain project pointed to improved community
relations stemming from their expanded common interest. And joint efforts and research in
Rwanda indicates that participation in a coffee value chain project was linked to low ethnic distance and distrust. In contrast, a groundnut value chain project in Guinea, while strengthening
ties between two ethnic groups, did not include the local refugee population, a key party in local
tensions. For Guinea and Nepal, see Parker 2008. For Rwanda, see Boudreaux and Tobias 2009.
In the West Bank and Gaza for instance, the Facility for New Market Development (FNMD),
funded jointly by the U.K. Department for International Development and the World Bank, has
been providing matching grants and technical support to private Palestinian companies seeking
to expand their product lines and markets since 2008. In just over two years and with financial
support amounting to US$2.4 million, companies enrolled in the project realized US$32.7 million in incremental export and local sales from market development plans the project supported;
42 companies entered 34 export markets in five continents; 48 products have been improved,
including 15 products that are now certified by international and local standards bodies; 92
new products have been developed; more than 670 people have been hired to help with business expansion; and 85 business service providers offer their services through the FNMD Online
Roster. Development Alternatives Incorporated 2010.
Twenty-two of the 181 countries included in the Enterprise Surveys are fragile and conflictaffected states. Ten of these countries have electricity as the most important environment constraint facing firms (and usually electricity is much higher than any of the other issues). It is also
in the top three issues for 17 out of the 22 countries assessed. Only two countries, Côte d’Ivoire
and Tonga, do not have electricity in their top six environmental constraints. Other constraints
include obtaining finance, political instability, practices of the informal sector, and corruption.
World Bank 2010d.
BBC News 2010.
World Bank 2011a.
A thorough review of job creation programs in post-conflict environments can also be found in
ILO 2010.
The Productive Safety Net Programme launched in Ethiopia in 2005 is an important policy initiative by government and donors to shift millions of chronically food-insecure rural people
from recurrent emergency food aid to a more secure, predictable, and largely cash-based form
of social protection. See Sharp, Brown, and Teshome 2006. The National Rural Employment
Guarantee Act in India was implemented on February 2006 in 200 of the poorest districts in its
first phase. An additional 130 districts were covered by the Act during 2007–08 in its phase II.
The remaining districts have been brought under subsequently. See del Ninno, Subbarao, and
Milazzo 2009; India Ministry of Rural Development 2005, 2010; Blum and LeBleu 2010.
Giovine and others 2010; Arai, Cissé, and Sock 2010; Sayigh 2010.
Lockhart and Glencorse 2010; UNOPS 2009.
Wilson 2002; McLeod and Dávalos 2008; Centre for Good Governance 2009; India Ministry of
Rural Development 2005, 2010.
del Ninno, Subbarao, and Milazzo 2009.
Lamb and Dye 2009; Tajima 2009.
Beasly 2006.
Cunningham and others 2008.
Mattero and Campbell-Patton 2008.
Cross 2010 discusses both opportunities and challenges of this approach.
Mills and Fan 2006.
Demirgüc-Kunt, Klapper, and Panos 2011; Cunningham and others 2008
Heinemann-Grüder, Pietz, and Duffy 2003.

Transforming institutions to deliver citizen security, justice, and jobs

86. See, for instance, ILO 2010 for a detailed analysis of self-employment and other local economic
recovery activities in post-conflict settings.
87. M-Paisa builds on the experience of M-PESA in Kenya; see Mas and Radcliffe 2010.
88. See, for example, World Bank and others 2009. A successful management training program
for small and medium enterprises is Business Edge of the International Finance Corporation
(IFC), which makes locally adapted and translated adult-learning materials available, trains
local trainers, builds capacity of local training companies (who tend to be small and medium
enterprises themselves), and establishes quality assurance mechanisms so that local firms
might in turn train the local population. Business Edge operates in several fragile and conflict-affected economies, including Iraq, Papua New Guinea, West Bank and Gaza, and Yemen.
In Yemen, nearly 30,000 participants were trained from 2006 to 2010. An independent evaluation found that the program had a lasting impact on the country. Business Edge fostered a
vibrant management training market that is active even after subsidies have been withdrawn.
In Pakistan, an assessment of the program showed that the number of small and medium
enterprises preparing cash flow statements after training increased by 20 percent and that
71 percent of participants with irregular credit histories had cleared or decreased their outstanding amounts six months after the training. See Peschka 2010.
89. Cunningham and others 2008.
90. For Japanese land reforms, see Kawagoe 1999; Tsunekawa and Yoshida 2010; For broader statebuilding experience in Japan, see Tsunekawa and Yoshida 2010; For Korean land reforms, see Shin
2006.
91. Lipton 2009; Rosset, Patel, and Courville 2006; IRIN 2009.
92. See World Bank 2008d on the design and implementation of cash transfer programs in emergency situations.
93. It is estimated that more than 650,000 Tajiks live and work in Russia—representing 18 percent
of Tajikistan’s adult population and as much as 80 percent of all Tajiks abroad. Remittances are
estimated to account for around 50 percent of GDP—one of the highest figures in the world
(Kireyev 2006, 3, 7).
94. Economic Times 2008.
95. Four elements are considered the backbone of successful schemes: (1) choice of workers to ensure
that hiring is skill-appropriate rather than hiring overqualified workers who are likely to use the
scheme as a stepping stone; (2) circular movement of workers to allow good employees to return
in subsequent years rather than be offered a one-time-only chance at offshore employment
thereby reducing the incentive to violate the agreement; (3) cost-sharing on travel-related costs
with employers so that fixed costs borne by migrants are not so large that they make overstaying
attractive; and (4) commercial viability so that the scheme remains private sector driven and
reflects labor market conditions in host countries rather than by arbitrary quotas that become
outdated if labor market conditions in destination countries change (World Bank 2006b).
96. Kingma 1997.
97. International Alert and Women Waging Peace 2004.
98. “For example, in the Democratic Republic of Congo, where women run only 18 percent of the
small businesses, discriminatory provisions in the Family Code require married women to obtain
marital authorization to go to court in a civil case, to buy and sell property, or to enter into any
obligations, including starting a business. Banks generally require co-signature/approval of husbands if women are to obtain loans. The Family Code also affects the ability of all women to
obtain employment, because proof of marital status is required, and this is difficult in a context
in which identification papers are largely unavailable. Neighboring Rwanda, by contrast, has no
such regulations, and women in that country run more than 41 percent of the small businesses.”
IFC 2008, 3.
99. IFC 2008.
100. Fearon 2010a.
101. Eades 1999; WDR consultation with former key negotiators from the ANC Alliance and the
National Party in South Africa, 2010.
102. See, for example, Snyder 2000; Fearon and Laitin 2003; Epstein and others 2006; Goldstone and
others 2010; Zakaria 2003; Mansfield and Snyder 2005. For Iraq, see Special Inspector General
for Iraq Reconstruction 2009. For Kenya, see International Crisis Group 2008b.
103. The Loya Jirga is a forum unique to Afghanistan in which, traditionally, tribal groups have come
together to settle affairs of the nation or rally behind a cause. Historically, it has been used to

177

178

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

104.
105.
106.

107.
108.
109.
110.
111.
112.

113.
114.
115.
116.
117.

118.
119.

120.
121.
122.
123.
124.
125.
126.
127.
128.
129.
130.

settle intertribal disputes, discuss social reforms, and approve a new constitution. More recently,
a Loya Jirga was convened in 2002 following the fall of the Taliban government and the Bonn
Accord to choose the new transitional government for the country. See BBC News 2002.
Success was not universal, however, and some conferences failed to produce an institutional
avenue for peaceful transition (Robinson 1994; Clark 1994; van de Walle and Bratton 1997).
Harbom and Wallensteen 2010.
Historically, the first civil war in Sudan started in 1955 and ended with the Addis Abba agreement
of 1972 (see Gadir, Elbadawi, and El-Batahani 2005). However, rebels in the south (primarily
Anya Nya) were not organized until the early 1960s, and battle deaths from violence did not reach
major civil war thresholds until 1962, not falling till 1973 (Harbom and Wallensteen 2010).
See also Horowitz 2000; Barron and others 2010.
OECD 2010c, 24.
OECD 2010a.
Narayan and Petesch 2010.
Narayan and Petesch 2010.
Wilkinson and others argue that proportional representation may spur in-fighting among various ethnic groups over a small number of highly coveted political offices, limited economic
resources, and positions of social status; it may also lead ethnic leaders to bargain harder with
their rivals and overplay their hands (Wilkinson 2000; de Zwart 2000). Others argue that decentralization can reinforce ethnic identities, produce discriminatory legislation, provide resources
for rebellion, and facilitate the collective action necessary for secession. Those that have recently
found in favor of devolution as a way of maintaining national integrity have done so with caveats: Brancati argues that decentralization can reduce the likelihood of secession and ethnic conflict, but can have the opposite effect if regional parties are too strong. Lustick and others have
run simulations that suggest that power-sharing in multicultural countries can lessen the likelihood of secession—but will in the process mobilize ethnic minorities (Brancati 2006; Lustick,
Miodownik, and Eidelson 2004; OECD 2004.
Crook and Manor 1998.
Schelnberger 2005; Tukahebwa 2000.
Crook and Manor 1998; Ndegwa and Levy 2004.
Grimm 2010.
Truth commissions are non-judicial, independent panels of inquiry typically set up to establish
the facts and context of serious violations of human rights or of international humanitarian law
in a country’s past. Commissions’ members are usually empowered to conduct research, support
victims, and propose policy recommendations to prevent recurrence of crimes. See International
Center for Transitional Justice 2010.
See, for example, Filippini 2009.
Truth-seeking is a process through which societies attempt to make sense of the atrocities they
have suffered during conflict or authoritarian regime and to prevent future injustices. Through
the truth-seeking process, victims are able to find closure by learning more about the events
they suffered, such as the fate of disappeared individuals, or why certain people were targeted
for abuse. It involves the protection of evidence, the opening and maintenance of archives, the
opening and publication of state information, and production of comprehensive reports. These
efforts often come from official inquiry groups called truth commissions. See International Center for Transitional Justice 2010.
For recent numbers, see, for example, Estrada 2010.
Roque and others 2010.
See Hayner 2010; UNOHCHR 2006.
See de Greiff 2006.
See Mayer-Rieckh and de Greiff 2007.
See, for example, Huyse and Salter 2008.
Roque and others 2010.
Roque and others 2010.
Svensson 2000.
UNDP 2008b.
A World Bank study found: “There was a tendency in some post-conflict situations to give high
priority to immediate and widespread privatization. While there is much in the histories of the
countries studied to support the priority given to privatization of state enterprises, this does not

Transforming institutions to deliver citizen security, justice, and jobs

131.

132.
133.
134.
135.
136.
137.

138.
139.
140.
141.
142.
143.

necessarily imply that sweeping and total privatization should be among the first reforms undertaken” (Kreimer and others 1998, 34).
Horizontal inequality is a measure of inequality among individuals or households, not groups. It
differs from “vertical” inequality in that measurement of vertical inequality often is confined to
income or consumption between groups. See Stewart 2010.
Stewart 2010.
Mehta 2010, 23.
INEE 2010.
INEE 2010.
Betancourt and Williams 2008; Melville 2003.
After the 1999 referendum, Timor-Leste faced serious health problems, a destroyed infrastructure,
and virtually no trained personnel. The Interim Health Authority signed agreements with international NGOs for each district, and focused its efforts on developing sensible plans, monitoring
delivery, and training a new cadre of health staff. The initial priority was to provide basic health
care and services. In the first phase, international and national NGOs occupied a central role in
providing emergency health services throughout Timor-Leste, independently funded through
humanitarian assistance. In the second and third phase, Timor-Leste fostered a learning environment by using 100-day planning cycles to standardize the service packages provided in different
parts of the territory, with clear targets and a strong focus on results, building confidence and
capacity by meeting those targets. Over time, the Interim Health Authority was replaced by a new
Ministry of Health, which assumed district management of the system and facilities. As a result
of this framework, by late 2001 a fully Timorese Ministry of Health had recruited more than 800
health staff, given 60 percent of the population access to basic services within a two-hour walk
from their homes, and boosted health facility use to 1.0 outpatient visits per capita. By 2004, an
estimated 90 percent of the population had a facility within a two-hour walk, and health facility
use rose from 0.75 outpatient visits per capita to 2.13. The health ministry and district operations were among the few state functions resilient to renewed violence in 2005–06, continuing to
operate and indeed to provide assistance to the displaced population. World Bank 2002a, 2008h;
Baird 2010; Rohland and Cliffe 2002; Tulloch and others 2003.
World Bank 2008c.
For economic policies, see Rodrik 2007; for social policy, see Grindle 2010; for institution building, see Andrews 2010.
Christensen 2003.
Banerjee and Duflo 2009; Demombynes and Clemens 2010.
The homicide rate in Peten region was 101 in 2008 and 96 in 2009 according to homicide statistics collected by the Guatemalan National Police. WDR team calculations.
The peace agreement stipulated a one-third reduction during 1997, down from a benchmark
figure of 45,000 members to 31,000. Shortly after the signing of the accords, however, the army
reported that its force level actually stood at 35,000, so it only needed a 4,000 troop reduction,
which indeed took place (more systematically among rank and file than among the officer corps)
(Stanley and Holiday 2002). See the report of the UN Verification Mission in Guatemala, as it
was winding down its operations (UN Verification Mission in Guatemala 2003, 2004).

179

C

hapter 6 examines the achievements and shortfalls of
international support for violence prevention and recovery.
Multilateral, bilateral, and nongovernmental agencies have
helped committed national leaders deliver great accomplishments
in reducing levels of civil wars. But the international system has not
kept pace with the adaptation of violent actors themselves, and it is
ill-equipped to navigate repeated cycles of violence or the blurred
boundaries between political conﬂict and criminal violence. International agencies are geared to minimizing domestic reputational and
ﬁduciary risk—increasingly so—rather than supporting “best-ﬁt”
institutional solutions that match political realities on the ground.
And there are critical gaps: development agencies have long
focused on building national capacity, but much less so in the
spheres of security and criminal justice. Security agencies operate
in those spheres, but with less long-term focus on building national
institutions. “Support for job creation is a crucial gap across the
international architecture.”

CITIZEN
SECURITY,
JUSTICE,
AND JOBS

CHAPTER

EXTERNAL
STRESS

VIOLENCE and
FRAGILITY

6

EXTERNAL SUPPORT
AND INCENTIVES

International support to
building confidence and
transforming institutions
The promise and peril of
outside support

R

estoring confidence in societies
struggling to prevent or recover
from violence generally requires
a combination of leadership and
international support—normally, neither
alone can suffice. The achievements of the
global system in supporting such processes
have been significant: societies facing diverse
stresses—from organized crime and gang
violence in Colombia to long-standing, brutal civil war in Mozambique (box 6.1)—used
international support to help stop violence,
save lives, and rebuild economies. Many of
the measures in chapters 4 and 5 that helped
restore confidence and transform institutions in situations of criminal and political
violence have been supported, financially
and technically, by international actors.
As important as these accomplishments
are, they are incomplete: repeated and new
forms of violence mean that hundreds of millions of people are still trapped in a vicious
cycle of legacies of violence, low trust, weak
institutions, and continuing risk. This chapter delineates patterns and trends in the international architecture that affect its ability
to respond effectively in fragile and violenceprone settings. The analysis includes lessons
from international efforts to prevent violence

at multiple transition points, encourage
inclusive-enough coalitions, support the delivery of early results, and provide sustained
and predictable assistance to help with institutional transformation. This chapter also
identifies measures to address the dual accountability dilemma faced by international
actors—accountability pressures both from
domestic constituencies and shareholders
and from the leaders and citizens of recipient
states—that often constrains effective international support.

The evolving international
architecture
The international community has made important strides over recent decades in building international institutions and expertise
to support a reduction in the incidence of
civil war. However, the international system
has not been adjusted to keep pace with the
emerging analysis of conflict—in particular, recognition of the repetitive and interlinked nature of conflict, and the increasing
challenge of organized crime and trafficking. At the same time, the expansion in
international assistance efforts has led to
overlaps and discontinuities between humanitarian, development, security, and political initiatives.

182

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

B OX 6 .1

The benefits of international support: Mozambique

Type of violence: Civil conﬂict
Transition opportunities: Ceaseﬁre, peace
agreement, elections

Key stakeholders: Governments, rebels,
civil society, regional and international
partners

Key stresses: Social and economic deprivation, human rights abuses, external political
and security interference

Institutional challenges: Accountability,
inclusion, capacity constraints

After 17 years of violence that killed an estimated 900,000 people and displaced a quarter
of the country’s people, a General Peace Agreement (GPA) was brokered from June 1990 to
October 1992 by the Roman Catholic Community of Sant’Egidio. The ﬁnal outcome was a
full-ﬂedged peace agreement owned by the two parties, the Mozambique Government led
by FRELIMO (the Mozambique Liberation Front) and RENAMO (the Mozambique National
Resistance). The result was a complex legal and political system that provided institutions and
methods for the transition to the 1994 elections. The sustainability of the peace agreement
itself was immediately proved by the absence of any ﬁghting in the seven-month vacuum in
which Mozambique was left, before the United Nations (UN) operation in Mozambique
(ONUMOZ) strengthened its presence in the country to monitor the implementation of the
peace agreement, support the resettlement of refugees, and help form a national army.
The ONUMOZ mandate brought together for the ﬁrst time the political, military, electoral,
and humanitarian components of the UN intervention, with an emphasis on enhancing
coordination.
ONUMOZ acted as a guarantor of the ceaseﬁre, playing a stabilizing role on the basis of
its perceived neutrality and helping create trust on both sides. Its role was facilitated by the
content and quality of the peace agreement resulting from the 27 months of negotiations in
Sant’Egidio, where a full set of guarantees was devised and proved a key element in facilitating
a durable peace settlement after the end of ﬁghting. Strong donor engagement and ﬁnancial
contributions also played a key role in demobilizing combatants from both sides, while humanitarian aid during the early years after the GPA helped lessen tensions among displaced populations. Since the GPA, Mozambique has grown rapidly—GDP increased an average of 8 percent a year between 1993 and 2007. Civil liberties and political rights have also increased,1
reﬂected in elections held in 1994, 1999, 2004, and 2009.
The readiness of both bilateral and multilateral donors to support the implementation of
the peace agreement through large-scale ﬁnancial support for reconstruction was crucial in
the transition process. Mozambique is calculated to have received about US$500 million a year
(in both humanitarian and development aid) on average throughout the 1990s, which was
equivalent to about two-thirds of imports and 60 percent of the government budget. This
external aid has played a pivotal economic role in supporting private consumption at the outset, and subsequently in providing ﬁnance for investment and institutional strengthening that
became the driving force behind Mozambique’s economic growth.2
Sources: Quinn 2007; Dobbins and others 2005; Manning and Malbrough 2009; Moran and Pitcher
2004; Jones 2008; Cingranelli and Richards 2010; Brück, Fitzgerald, and Grigsby 2000; Cadeado and
Hamela 2009; World Bank 2005b; Hume 1994; Morozzo Della Rocca 2003; Morozzo Della Rocca and
Riccardi 2003; Edis 1995; Alden 2001; Bartoli 2005; Walter 1997.

The volume of assistance and the
number of actors are increasing
Worldwide, international support to countries affected by violence has increased in
the last 15 years. The international community has scaled up peacekeeping missions.

More than 124,000 personnel are currently
deployed in the UN peacekeeping missions, with troop contributions from 115
countries.3 The African Union now has significant peacekeeping capacity. Support for
mediation has increased at the United Nations, in regional institutions, and through

International support to building confidence and transforming institutions

civil society actors. Aid to fragile and conflictaffected states has also grown from 29 percent of total aid in 1996–98 to 41 percent in
2006–08. However, much of that shift is due
to increases in humanitarian assistance and
debt relief, which have become increasingly
concentrated in fragile and conflict-affected
states. In the period 1996–98, 34 percent of
humanitarian assistance and debt relief was
to fragile and conflict-affected states—that
increased to 75 percent in 2006–08. Once
humanitarian assistance and debt relief are
taken out, aid to fragile and conflict-affected
states was 28 percent of the total in 1996–98,
and 30 percent in 2006–08.4
Increasing engagement by middle-income
countries with a history of solidarity support
is also changing the international landscape
at a fundamental level in many regions. The
past decade has brought with it new energy,
resources, and influence from a wider set
of players. Middle- and new higher-income
countries have become important donors,
investors, and diplomatic and trading partners for countries affected by fragility, violence, and conflict. They bring with them
additional resources, lessons from their own
economic and institutional transitions, and
strong regional connections. Consider China’s economic investment in and trade with
Africa (investment is estimated to have at least
tripled since 2002),5 Brazil’s peacekeeping
role in Haiti, Indian development assistance
to Afghanistan, Saudi Arabia’s increased assistance to the World Food Program, and the
evolving roles of South Africa, Qatar, and the
United Arab Emirates in mediation.6
Alongside the increase in support has
come a proliferation of humanitarian, development, security, and political actors and
initiatives, bringing increased complexity. In
2009–10, there were 14 special envoys to Afghanistan alone.7 Even security responses are
complicated by multiple actors: of 54 peacekeeping or monitoring operations deployed in
2009, 40 involved two or more international
or regional organizations—creating coordination, co-management, and accountability
challenges.8 International nongovernmental

organizations (NGOs) have also proliferated.
Haiti’s Ministry of Planning placed the number of NGOs operating in Haiti following the
January 2010 earthquake as high as 10,000.
The number of international humanitarian
workers has similarly increased at an average annual 6 percent globally over the past
decade, with roughly 211,000 in the field in
2009, and humanitarian funding has tripled
since the start of the decade.9
As a result, and despite continuous policy
attention and recommendations for reform,
aid management and broader strategic coordination are more daunting today than
20 years ago. In high-profile contexts like
Afghanistan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Haiti,
and the West Bank and Gaza, strategic importance, significant funding, and limited local
capacity have brought forward a dizzying array of international and bilateral aid and humanitarian agencies, NGOs, and contractors,
each competing for a piece of the action—and
often displacing local initiatives.

Current international assistance focuses
on recovery rather than prevention
The international architecture for cooperation has evolved significantly over the last 60
years, attesting to the ability of the international system to adapt its support to changing
circumstances and challenges. It is in need of
adaptation again today: its focus on political
rather than social protest and criminal violence, its linear view of the transition from
violence to peace, its separation of actors
across fields of engagement, and the preponderance of high-income Organization for
Economic Co-operation and Development
(OECD) countries in development policy
discourse no longer reflect today’s realities.
Since the end of the Cold War, international support has focused on ending civil
conflict. There are good reasons for this: at the
conclusion of the Cold War, civil war was the
dominant form of violence, consuming millions of lives globally and retarding development in the South. Bilateral and multilateral
agencies underwent major transformations
to adapt their activities to helping end civil

183

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

F I G U R E 6 .1

Uneven international support in West Africa—Post-conflict trumps
prevention
Total aid and peacekeeping assistance per capita to ﬁ ve West African countries during their
transition periods over the last decade. Assistance to “post-conﬂict” Liberia was over US$415
in 2008 and Sierra Leone’s averaged US$186 between 2000 and 2003. In contrast, assistance
to “fragile” Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, and Togo averaged just US$42 in each country.

450
Total aid and peacekeeping expenditure per capita
(current US$)

184

400
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
Liberia
Sierra Leone
(highlighted
(highlighted
period 2004–08) period 2000–03)

Guinea
(highlighted
period 2008)

Guinea-Bissau
(highlighted
period 2002–05)

Togo
(highlighted
period 2005–08)

Global
average for
low-income
countries

West Africa, selected countries (2000–08)

Source: WDR team calculations based on OECD 2010d.
Note: Total combined aid and peacekeeping assistance. This eﬀect of greater assistance to “post-conﬂict” countries is
not due to small state issues (small states typically receive higher per capita aid): Liberia is larger than Guinea-Bissau,
and Sierra Leone is the same size as Togo. Peacekeeping expenditures accounted for roughly 55 percent of the
aggregate in Liberia and 63 percent of the aggregate in Sierra Leone.

wars and supporting recovery efforts, with
important successes. In the process, though,
the international architecture for cooperation has paid less attention to other forms of
conflict, including social protest, organized
crime, trafficking, and cross-border violence.
This focus on civil war has led aid and
security systems to give priority to postconflict transitions. With some exceptions,
countries affected by violence and fragility
receive special attention only in post-conflict
situations—as West Africa illustrates (figure
6.1). The aid and peacekeeping assistance
going to countries after civil conflict ends
greatly exceeds what is provided to countries
struggling to prevent an escalation of conflict. Of course, countries that have experienced major conflict can have exceptional
needs in costly areas such as infrastructure.
But societies struggling to prevent violence
also have particular needs. Some interventions, such as state-society consultations, are

inexpensive. But tangible financial and security assistance to address rising violence
can often make a vital difference, as in the
institutional reforms and community programs supported by donors in Colombia.
Moreover, assistance to post-conflict countries usually pays little attention to “second
generation challenges” in countries that face
risks of repeated violence, such as Guatemala and Yemen.
International actors do support violence
prevention outside the “post-conflict” countries, but the degree and nature of this engagement varies substantially across types of
violence and from state to state. International
diplomats and security actors have been less
involved in cases of criminal violence; the UN
Peacebuilding Commission’s role in GuineaBissau is an exception. Bilateral counterterrorism and counter-crime programs provide operational support but rarely cross over
into supporting political dialogue or develop-

International support to building confidence and transforming institutions

ment programs. No bilateral or multilateral
agency known to the authors has a specific
policy for assisting countries confronted by
rising criminal violence or social protest.
The international tools to address violence—diplomacy, defense, and development—were not originally designed to work
together. This weakness in the international
architecture has long been recognized, and
there is a growing international policy consensus that addressing violent conflict and
promoting economic development both
require deeper understanding of the close
relationship among politics, security, and
development.10 UN “integrated missions”11
and various bilateral and regional “wholeof-government”12 and “whole-of-system”13
initiatives have emerged to address the challenge of merging development, diplomatic,
and security strategies and operations.14
But different disciplines bring with
them different goals, planning time frames,
decision-making processes, funding streams,
and risk calculi. They can also create complexity when each agency in donor countries
works through their own national counterparts, making it difficult to set national priorities.15 Whole-of-system entities also often
leave out those departments and ministries
that address organized crime and trafficking.
And most international actors do not have
specific processes to ensure a whole-ofgovernment approach in their representation in multilateral agencies, so that different
signals on priority action within the same
recipient country can be provided to the international financial institutions and to different parts of the UN system.
A number of governments have been
making headway at integrating whole-ofgovernment strategy design and resource allocation. Australia’s experience with mounting a truly cross-governmental operation in
the Solomon Islands (Regional Assistance
Mission to Solomon Islands, RAMSI) is perhaps the most developed; notably, it relied
on the personal involvement of the prime
minister and his office to drive deep engagement by AusAID, and the Australian Defense,
Treasury, Justice, Federal Police, Foreign Af-

fairs, and other departments.16 Canada’s
Stabilization and Reconstruction Task Force
(START) recently finalized interdepartmental guidance that requires joint assessment
by the Ministries of Defense, Foreign Affairs,
and Development (and other departments
where relevant) before a recommendation
is made to ministers about whether Canada
should engage in a given high-risk setting.
The Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs approved an approach to its security sector
reform work that keeps the question of resources separate from strategy design, so that
programs are not hampered—as many are—
by issues of ODA eligibility (official development assistance.) The U.K. Department for
International Development’s (DFID) Stabilization Unit and the U.S. Office of the Coordinator for Reconstruction and Stabilization
have development interagency assessment
and planning frameworks to encourage joint
action, including for bilateral interventions
in Afghanistan, Haiti, and Sudan,17 and the
U.K. Multilateral Agency Review assesses
the support provided by multilaterals in
fragile situations.

Building confidence
International actors have supported, or facilitated, “inclusive-enough” coalitions; helped
develop leadership capacity across a wide
range of responsibilities; undertaken thirdparty mediation and prevention activities;
supported commitment mechanisms; and invoked sanctions when positive incentives did
not bring national leaders together. They have
also helped deliver early results (see international support for national action in chapter
4). But international interventions have not
always been as fast, as flexible, or as responsive
to local political conditions as was needed to
support early confidence-building efforts.18

Support to building inclusive-enough
coalitions
Across cases with different attributes and facing different stresses, international actors can

185

186

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

use a range of tools to create incentives for
coalitions to avoid violence. These include
• Providing evidence of a deteriorating
situation. Communications from diplomatic and development actors in Togo and
Zimbabwe in the early 2000s, for example,
focused on the growing gap between countries that had once led their neighbors in
social and economic outcomes but had
fallen behind in periods of fragility.
• Highlighting the potential negative consequences of inaction. Following the resumption of Israeli-Palestinian violence
in the fall of 2000, the World Bank, with
assistance from the UN and other donors,
prepared a series of reports that addressed
the relationship between Israeli security
measures and Palestinian socioeconomic
development. The parties used this analysis as the basis for a resumption of bilateral
negotiations in the context of Israel’s disengagement from Gaza in 2005.
• Jointly signaling the need for governments to address crisis situations. When
Cyclone Nargis hit Myanmar in 2008, the
government initially resisted offers of international support. Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) mediation
and a visit by the UN Secretary-General—
buttressed by technical support from the
UN, the World Bank, and the Asian Development Bank—produced a policy shift
that resulted in Myanmar opening its
borders to large-scale humanitarian assistance. South-South exchanges with Indian
and Indonesian political and technical
leaders who had been involved after natural disasters helped to open dialogue.
The cost savings to the international
community of avoiding or minimizing violence are potentially considerable—a 1997
Carnegie Commission Report on Preventing
Deadly Conflict estimated that seven major
international post-conflict interventions in
the 1990s cost some US$200 billion, while
prevention would have required only around
US$70 billion.19 More recent work on six cases
concluded that conflict prevention would

have been cost-effective in each instance,
even allowing for large margins of error in
estimating costs and benefits: every dollar
of prevention would have saved the international community US$4.1.20 And each time
the Fica Vivo program in Brazil prevented
a homicide, it saved up to US$82,000.21 Yet
since the probability of successful preventive
action in a given case is not known, and since
preventive action often requires diplomatic
risk-taking, it is difficult to marshal political
and financial support resources. For instance,
the UN Department of Political Affairs often
scrambles to find travel funds for its envoys
despite the high return on investment in a
successful preventive effort.
External mediation has helped build collaborative coalitions to promote prevention
of or recovery from violence—and is economical. Mediation has played a significant
role in a range of cases—ECOWAS (Economic Community of West African States)
mediation in West Africa (see feature 6), UN
facilitation of Afghanistan’s Bonn Agreement,
Norway’s facilitation in Sudan, and NGO efforts such as those of the Crisis Management
Initiative and the Centre for Humanitarian
Dialogue in Aceh, Indonesia.
It is hard to attribute results conclusively
to mediation, or to demonstrate what would
have happened without it; but we do know
that it is cheap. The UN Department of Political Affairs estimates22 that the start-up budget
for “light mediation support” is US$330,000
and for “heavy mediation” is US$1.1 million.23 However, mediation to manage transitions tends to neglect economic factors and
thus faces capacity and personnel constraints
(box 6.2). Because mediation support is provided mainly by diplomatic mechanisms,
there are few cases of integrated political
mediation and economic diagnosis provided
to governments grappling with transitions.
Routinely lamented, this situation has rarely
been addressed.24 Some exceptions include
the World Bank’s support during the Dayton
negotiations on Bosnia and Herzegovina, final status negotiations for Kosovo, and the
Agreement on Movement and Access between Israel and the Palestinian Authority.25

International support to building confidence and transforming institutions

REFLECTIONS FROM ADVISORY COUNCIL MEMBERS: 2011 WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT
B OX 6 . 2

Investing in long-term mediation as a cost-effective approach to preventing and
responding to violence
Martin Griffiths, Former Director of the Centre for Humanitarian Dialogue; WDR Advisory
Council Member
As has often been observed, most armed conﬂicts today
are internal to states, rather than between states. Mediation in these conﬂicts is rarely preventive. It is also often
short-lived. This is partially because mediation is still often
seen as interference in the internal aﬀairs of a state, partially because there are few national mediators and there
are limited numbers of international oﬃcials with the
necessary stature and diplomatic skills. Mediation is seen
as a last resort, only acceptable when it becomes evident
that armed victory is unlikely and when non-state armed
groups gain credibility and a degree of international
acceptance.
The record, though, varies between regions. In Africa
there is a robust tradition of mediation, typically led by
former senior statesmen from the continent, assisted by the
AU’s Peace and Security Commission, which increasingly
holds its member states to political account on the basis of
a broad consensus. In Asia, the picture is very diﬀerent.
Mediation, especially by neighbors, is extremely rare, and it
is no surprise that regional mechanisms are, by comparison
with Africa, much less developed. Europe, by further contrast, has been quite open to third-party mediation, but
usually by individuals or international NGOs.
The nature of mediators exacerbates the diﬃculties.
Mediators are, on the whole, drawn from the ranks of

In peace negotiations, international mediators often pursue inclusive-enough coalitions by encouraging or pressuring for
agreements that include key minority rights
and human rights provisions, as well as early
political participation. As third-party facilitation and mediation in internal conflict
and violence have developed, there has been
growing emphasis on including core human
rights provisions in peace agreements, and
in 1999 there was formal guidance for the
UN against endorsing agreements that contained amnesties for war crimes.26 Similarly,
external actors have urged that democratic
processes or other accountability and voice
mechanisms be made a routine part of conflict settlements. The UN Security Council

serving or former senior politicians and oﬃcials. This is a limited pool, and those willing to take on the dubious rewards of
mediation are likely to be very busy men. And they are mostly
men: there are precious few women mediators, an imbalance
which does nothing for the quality of the output.
A further factor that abbreviates mediation eﬀorts is a simple human one: many mediators prefer to avoid involvement
in the post-agreement implementation phase, which extends
the time of their involvement and is usually messy and complicated. A striking contrary example comes from the AU panel
that mediated in Kenya in 2008, where former SecretaryGeneral Koﬁ Annan was a “prisoner of peace” for 41 straight
days of talks. That 41 days of continuous eﬀort is viewed as
unprecedented says volumes about the nature of standard
mediation eﬀorts.
Agreements intended to initiate a durable peace must deal,
if not immediately, with the whole range of issues relevant to
social transformation. A political settlement is thus necessary
but not suﬃcient. However, the ﬂaws in today’s approach to
mediation make such a comprehensive and thoughtful inclusion in the negotiation rather unlikely. Typically, therefore, difﬁcult issues are left for later resolution. It is not by chance,
therefore, that peace settlements, aided by the brilliant but
passing presence of mediators, often fail the more rigorous
tests of implementation.

has included such provisions in most of the
54 operations it has authorized since the end
of the Cold War.27 Such provisions in an initial settlement can create incentives for inclusive social and economic strategies.
But international support often swings
between “all-inclusive” and “not inclusive
enough” options. In some processes there
is pressure to treat all political groupings
equally and to give everyone a seat at the
table—in Timor-Leste in 1999, the National
Council for Resistance in Timor was told by
international counterparts that it was only
one among many political groups, despite
almost 80 percent of the Timorese population having voted for independence under
its logo. International actors have also pres-

187

188

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

sured national authorities not to engage in
dialogue with groups listed as terrorist organizations by the UN, regional organizations,
or bilateral donors, even when those groups
command substantial domestic followings.
Consequently, those actors have withdrawn
support when national authorities have taken
a different path.
International approaches to coalition
building often exclude women, despite international efforts such as UN Security Council
Resolution (UNSCR) 1325 and UNSCR 1960.28
Women bring different issues to the negotiating table—not only gender-related topics but
also different visions of how to share power,
address security concerns, and promote human rights.29 According to UNIFEM (United
Nations Development Fund for Women),
fewer than 7 percent of negotiators on official
delegations in peace processes since 2000 have
been women. Moreover, women make up just
2.3 percent of military peacekeeping personnel globally.30 Similarly, in peace support operations, at the end of 2003, women represented
only 25 percent of civilian professional staff
and 4 percent of civilian police.31
Despite the challenges, both international
political actors and international development actors have demonstrated their ability to
support effective prevention activities in fragile transition moments. Donors have funded
diverse interventions in fragile and conflictaffected countries to help support effective
leadership and enhance collaborative capacities,32 coalition-building, and national and local strategy development. In Guyana in 2006,
after a period of rising political tension, the
first-ever violence-free elections were conducted.33 The Social Cohesion Program—
a joint UNDP-UNDPA (UN Development
Programme–UN Department of Political
Affairs) national initiative that included a
national dialogue, a network of local mediators to help ease tensions among communities, and agreements among political
parties—contributed much to this result. In
Burundi, the World Bank and others financed
leadership support, which aided in developing
a vision for economic recovery for the transi-

tional period and led to an extension of the
program for army and rebel commanders to
prepare for the upcoming cease-fire.34 Another type of program is international support to national efforts to build an institutional infrastructure for conflict prevention
and prevention and risk reduction (box 6.3).

Commitment mechanisms
International actors have also helped in
providing ongoing monitoring and implementation guarantees—the commitment
mechanisms described in chapter 4.35 In the
post–Cold War era, their most significant
role has been in helping to implement postconflict settlements when trust is low. External forces can reassure parties and begin to
restore confidence by monitoring and providing credible information about implementation, and thus intent. They can also
deploy troops to provide physical security
guarantees against a relapse.36 Cross-country
studies repeatedly show that peace settlements with third-party guarantees are more
stable than those without.37 Similarly, IMF
(International Monetary Fund) and World
Bank programs, including those that carry
no financing but simply give an imprimatur
of good financial practice, can help governments reassure investors and citizens of
their commitment to fiscal responsibility
and clean government. Among nongovernment actors, the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI)38 and the new Natural Resource Charter39 have in effect set
new standards for the responsible use of
some natural resources in a partnership of
civil society, the private sector, and governments. Adherence to these standards and
their reporting requirements can also act as
a commitment mechanism.
Commitment mechanisms that mix national and international capacity can help
shepherd economic recovery and progress on
justice. They are particularly appealing because they combine the strength of international guarantees with elements of national
institution-building. Liberia’s Governance

International support to building confidence and transforming institutions

B OX 6.3

Heading off escalation: Dialogue and compromise in
Ghana in 2003–04

Type of violence: Political, local, and intergroup conﬂict
Transition opportunity: Preventive actions
leading to peace negotiations before a
critical national election

Key stakeholders: Local and national
government, clans, police, civil society,
opposition party, international organizations

Key stresses: Ethnic competition linked to a
political contest

Institutional challenges: Capacity and
legitimacy of formal and informal governance systems

Ghana, viewed as one of the most stable countries in Sub-Saharan Africa, has experienced its
own bouts of local or community violence; a recent study identiﬁed more than 200 low-level
conﬂicts between 1994 and 2002. The potential for serious violence threatened to emerge in
2002 over the succession to the Dagbon chieftaincy, after the Andani clan chief of the Dagbon
ethnic group and 40 of his followers were murdered by the rival Abudu clan. This had national
implications: Ghana’s vice president was a Dagomba, and the main opposition party had chosen its vice presidential candidate from a faction contesting the succession. The central government therefore needed to defuse tension before the next national election. A state of
emergency was declared in the Dagbon kingdom, and a commission of inquiry established.
But the commission failed to bring a settlement: its report was rejected by both sides.
The government then sought UN help to broker a dialogue among youth, women, and
labor leaders and state institutions, including the police. A compromise was devised that
included a funeral with full state honors for the slain Andani leader and the nomination of an
Andani regent. An agreed “roadmap” for succession gave both factions a future chance at providing a successor. The 2004 national elections were peaceful, with chiefs and police cooperating to avoid violence.
Building on this dialogue, the Ministry of the Interior, supported by UNDP and UNDPA,
created a National Architecture for Peace, consisting of district, regional, and national councils,
which brings together locally respected, politically neutral Ghanaians and provides a platform
for community dialogue and consensus-building on divisive issues. The councils also serve as
an early warning mechanism, used by state oﬃcials to identify problems. The national government now has a Peace Building Support Unit in the Ministry of the Interior to coordinate preventive eﬀorts by national, regional, and district government agencies and to provide mentoring and capacity-building to government and nongovernment actors.
Sources: Ojielo 2007; GhanaWeb 2006; UNDPA 2010a.

and Economic Management Assistance Program40 (chapter 4) shows the benefits of joint
international-national mechanisms in the
economic sphere, as does Guatemala’s International Commission Against Impunity in
the justice sphere (box 6.4).
In the extreme, international actors can
threaten a range of sanctions when national
actors seem reluctant to take meaningful
steps to avoid new cycles of violence.41 While
sanctions are often cited as an important
measure in forcing political change in the
target state (for example, contributing to the

fall of apartheid in South Africa), their causal
effects remain disputed.42 Critics cite negative
humanitarian effects and the creation of illicit economies that can enrich regimes.43 Efforts to mitigate such effects have emerged in
the two decades through the use of “targeted”
sanctions—financial and travel restrictions
imposed on individual leaders or groups.44
The European Union imposed travel restrictions, for example, on Zimbabwe’s leaders
when they failed to deal with a deteriorating
economy and suppressed mounting political
tensions.

189

190

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

B OX 6 .4

International-national institutional partnerships—CICIG in
Guatemala

Types of violence: Legacy of civil conﬂict, rising criminal and gang violence, traﬃcking
Transition opportunity: Rising crisis, moderate
space for change

Key stakeholders: Government, opposition
parties, victims, gangs, international drug networks, citizens, regional partners, wider global
partnership

Key stresses: Rising external pressures from drug
traﬃcking, perceptions of injustice and impunity
by victims of violence and marginalized groups

Institutional challenges: Low capacity in police
and civilian justice system, past problems of
accountability

To combat corruption and crime, Guatemala created the International Commission against Impunity,
known by its Spanish acronym, CICIG, through an agreement with the UN in 2007. Its mandate is to
“support, strengthen, and assist institutions of the State of Guatemala responsible for investigating and
prosecuting crimes allegedly committed in connection with the activities of illegal security forces and
clandestine security organizations.” 45 It is one of the few instances of an international commitment
mechanism deployed to help a state deal with gang-related and criminal violence.
CICIG responds to the reality that Guatemala, after a 36-year civil war, has experienced continuous and
mounting stresses of gang-related violence and police and judicial corruption. Studies show that a legacy
of failed reintegration of demobilized soldiers at the end of Guatemala’s civil war has contributed to
today’s spike in criminal violence and gang activity.
CICIG draws on independent international and local investigative expertise and refers cases to
Guatemalan prosecutors in the domestic judicial system. A Special Prosecutor’s Oﬃce for CICIG has been
established in the Public Prosecutor’s oﬃce, and CICIG has also provided technical assistance and capacitybuilding support to the National Civilian Police, the Ministry of the Interior, and the Public Prosecutor.46
As of March 2010, CICIG had mounted 1,544 judicial proceedings and arrested 135 individuals, including
former President Alfonso Portillo, accused of embezzling funds.
CICIG has been an innovative response to the twin challenges of high external stress and low internal
capacity. However, while CICIG has registered successes within Guatemala, larger regional challenges of
organized crime and traﬃcking lie beyond its control.
Sources: CICIG 2009; Férnandez 2010; Donovan 2008; The Economist 2010; UN 2006a; UN General Assembly
2009a; Hudson 2010.

But international and regional norms—
and mechanisms for recognition and sanctions—are not always fully aligned. Some
regions have developed norms and principles that recognize responsible national
leadership. The African Union (AU) and the
Organization of American States have norms
for dealing with extra-constitutional changes
of government, notably coups d’état.47 But
even where a region has a strong principlebased standard, international mechanisms do
not always reinforce it. For example, there are
no structured discussions on international
cooperation among non-regional bilateral
partners, the UN, and international financial institutions following the imposition of
sanctions by the AU on a member.48

Support to delivering early results
For the leaders of an initial pact to build confidence, they must deliver results quickly;
when timely, international assistance can
bolster these efforts. Rapid assistance for
confidence-building can take many forms
(chapter 4). Early results can be achieved when
programs are appropriately designed, as the
initiatives described in chapters 4 and 5 make
clear. However, much of the assistance for priority development tasks remains slow, in particular when best-fit needs on the ground fall
outside the regular donor processes (see box
6.5). A critical ingredient for bridging the gap
is the mutual involvement of humanitarian
and development actors in planning.

International support to building confidence and transforming institutions

REFLECTIONS FROM ADVISORY COUNCIL MEMBERS: 2011 WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT
B OX 6 . 5

Quick action? Ghana helps restore electricity in Liberia
H. E. Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, President of Liberia; WDR Advisory Council Member
After the 2005 election in Liberia, the new government
announced a 100-day plan that included the restoration of
electricity to certain areas of the capital to help restore conﬁdence in the state and jumpstart recovery in economic
activities and basic services. With ECOWAS’ support, the
Liberian government approached various donors to help,
since the new government lacked resources and institutional capacity for implementation. None of the traditional
donors, which included the United Nations, the World Bank,
the African Development Bank, the European Union, and
USAID, were able to provide the generators needed for this
endeavor within the desired timeframe under their regular
systems. The Liberian government was eventually successful in securing help from the Government of Ghana, which
provided two generators that helped restore electricity in
some urban areas.
The Liberian experience points to two key lessons.
First is the need for early consultation between national
governments and international partners on realism in delivering quick results and demonstrating progress to local

Humanitarian assistance, the main tool
the global system has for rapid relief, can
provide vital life-saving and stabilizing assistance. There is evidence that “indirect
deaths”—those caused by disease and malnutrition in violent environments—have
declined faster than deaths caused directly by
war. This is in part a testament to the increasing effectiveness of humanitarian aid—but
humanitarian assistance alone cannot deliver
on priority political, security, and development needs.49
As domestic pressure on donors to demonstrate results has increased, so has the appeal of branding as a communications tool.
For example, the United States Agency for
International Development’s (USAID) policy
is that all programs and commodities funded
by USAID are marked with the USAID logo.
However, there is some flexibility—where
needed, a partner country symbol or ministry logo may be added, while branding may
be avoided altogether if it can be shown to

populations. Second is the challenge of rigidities in donor systems unable to provide particular types of assistance fast. In
fact, the EU, USAID, and the World Bank were able to provide
other types of support (fuel, transmission line restoration) for
the electricity system within the 100 days, but none of the
donors were able to cover the speciﬁc need for generators.
Indeed, there is a need to rethink existing policies and processes, to modify what I call procedural conformism for countries in crisis situations. Another case in point is the rebuilding
of two primary roads in Liberia. The World Bank, joined by
other donors, made signiﬁcant commitments to this project.
However, a new procedure was to be adopted which calls for a
multiyear construction and maintenance arrangement. This
represented an innovative new process, but one which required
a long gestation period for implementation. Liberia gained
when the Bank agreed to proceed with one of the roads under
more ﬂexible procedures, but the other will likely experience a
two-year delay under the new process. This case in point is a
clear demonstration of both the problems of procedural conformism and the possibility of more ﬂexible thinking.

threaten the neutrality of a program.50 Other
donors, such as the European Commission,
have similar practices.51 Where the population sees all assistance marked with logos
of international agencies, the opportunity
to boost confidence in the ability of national
reformers and institutions to lead the country out of violence may be lost. In some circumstances, “joint branding,” as was adopted
in Aceh, Indonesia, between the Indonesian
Government and donors, can help maintain
donor visibility while boosting the legitimacy
of national institutions.
When protracted, humanitarian assistance
confronts a dilemma: because it does not,
for the most part, deliver through national
institutions, it can undermine national institutional capacity. Yet international agencies
and NGOs that have both humanitarian and
development mandates can build bridges
from relief to early results and institutional
transformation. For instance, the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) has been

191

192

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

developing the capacity of national and local actors to protect the rights of disadvantaged groups. Most successful are activities
that support individuals (such as teachers),
improve organizational capacities (such as
school management structures), and address
state and civil society capacities simultaneously. In Sri Lanka, UNICEF has worked with
the Ministry of Education and communities
to adopt a child-friendly-schools approach,
even in conflict-affected areas, increasing
student and teacher attendance and reducing dropout rates. Similarly, the World Food
Programme has increased its uses of local
purchase of food to support domestic agricultural capacity.
The potential gap between humanitarian
and development assistance has long been
recognized.52 As the examples above demonstrate, UN agencies and international NGOs
with humanitarian and development mandates can do much in the critical early phase
of transitions to provide quick support while
paying attention to longer-term institutionbuilding. Another example is recovery in the
health sector in Timor-Leste: the government
drew on the capacity of humanitarian NGOs
for immediate service provision as an integral
part of a program that gradually transferred
management and service delivery to national
institutions (see chapters 5 and 8).53
Even when citizen security is acknowledged as a priority, responses can still be
slow. In 2005, the UN Mission in Sudan
took more than nine months to deploy
3,600 troops, just 40 percent of its mandated level. The UN Department of Peacekeeping Operations took 12 months to
achieve the authorized troop levels for
MONUC, the UN Peacekeeping Force in
the Democratic Republic of Congo.54 Overcoming barriers to rapid contracting and
recruitment would make a difference in
the ability of the UN and regional institutions to deploy peacekeeping operations to
confront violence in a timely manner. The
adoption of the UN global support package in Spring 2010 is an important step in
this direction.

Similar delays have affected bilateral security cooperation. Between 2008 and 2010, the
United States pledged US$1.6 billion to the
Mérida Initiative, which aims to provide law
enforcement support to Mexico and Central
American countries. By July 2010, only 9 percent of the funds had been spent.55
Global funds for peacebuilding and statebuilding have also increased in recent years to
fill financing support gaps in transition settings. For example, the UN Peacebuilding
Fund (PBF) plays a catalytic role bridging the
humanitarian and the transitional and development phases, while the World Bank’s Statebuilding and Peacebuilding Fund (SPF) is
able to mobilize technical and financial resources and foster coherence with longerterm development planning.56 In Nepal, for
example, the PBF has provided US$2.2 million in catalytic funding to discharge and rehabilitate minors, post-cease-fire recruits, and
discharged women back to civilian life. The
discharge process was completed across the
seven principle cantonments in some of the
most inaccessible areas of the country over a
four-week period; this initial funding was followed by investments by the Governments of
Norway and the United Kingdom to finance
the reintegration efforts that have followed.57
Collaborative tools for national-international strategy development have emerged
in recent years to set goals, financing priorities, and progress indicators in conflictaffected countries. Commonly focusing on
early results, they may also contain measures
to aid institutional transformation. The
tools range from Post Conflict Needs Assessments (PCNAs)58 to international compacts
and strategic peacebuilding frameworks.59
Effectively implemented, they can galvanize
national and international stakeholders in
support of a jointly agreed-upon and wellcoordinated program of priority actions sensitive to the underlying drivers of conflict.
In practice, however, joint planning and
assessment tools have not generally been
used to their full potential. Among the recognized shortcomings is a lack of real integration of economic, security, humanitarian,

International support to building confidence and transforming institutions

and political programs—and thus a focus
on economic or technical development issues to the detriment of attention to political and security concerns, as well as a near
complete neglect of transitional justice.60
Some bilateral governments—such as the
United Kingdom and the United States61—
have integrated diplomatic, development,
and security assessment tools, but these are
rarely coordinated with other international
or, more importantly, national assessment
and planning processes. In only two PCNA
cases, Georgia and Liberia, did humanitarian
and development partners fully coordinate
the humanitarian appeal and needs assessment processes to ensure consistency among
the humanitarian and the transitional and
development actions and promote the necessary continuum from humanitarian response to development.62
International assessment and planning
processes have also registered mixed results
in engaging national actors and linking
strategy development processes. They are
typically structured around discrete one-off
transitions from conflict to post-conflict that
ignore the multiple transitions required for
progress. They often omit attention to the
security and justice sectors. Although adaptable to a wide range of situations, they have
rarely been used for prevention or for the
analysis of interlinked and cross-border
forms of violence (such as organized crime
and trafficking)—nor do they generally focus on external stresses.63
International planning processes in the
early stages of transition have proliferated.64
Burundi has had, in addition to its own
poverty reduction strategy, 13 international
or joint national-international strategies and
plans, on different timetables and with different priorities identified, between 2008
and 2010.65 In some countries, this kind of
risk has been minimized by strong support
to government planning and a close dialogue
with donors over results. Timor-Leste’s transition benchmarks in 2001–02 and Liberia’s
results-focused transition framework in 2002

both used a simple matrix planning format
to lay out expected results—from both government and donors.66 These plans have the
effect of a “double compact” (an idea first
proposed by Ashraf Ghani and Clare Lockhart).67 Double compacts describe in a simple
form the results that governments are aiming
to provide to their own citizens, and can be
used to facilitate cross-government action in
weak institutional environments. They can
also be designed to make donor commitments explicit, and to monitor whether these
commitments have been met. In practice,
donor reporting inside recipient countries
on how much of their own funds have been
disbursed, and in what activities, has often
been weak, complicating national reformers’
efforts to report on public promises.68

Supporting institutional
transformation
Essential building blocks of international
support to successful institutional transformation are time and patience, best-fit approaches appropriate to the local political
context, and supporting capacity for critical
institutional reform in the areas of citizen
security, justice, and jobs. The international
community’s track record in supporting
these building blocks is mixed.

Time and patience
International assistance needs to be sustained
for a minimum of 15 years to support most
long-term institutional transformations. Longevity is something that some international
NGOs have understood for some time (box
6.6), while bilateral and multilateral donors
have started to adopt longer time frames.
Witness the U.K. DFID’s 10-year partnership agreements, the recent Dutch agreement
with Burundi on a 10-year security-sector
reform plan, and the 10-year exceptional assistance to post-conflict countries from the
World Bank. But most strategic donor and
financing frameworks cover from three to

193

194

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

B OX 6 . 6

The Aga Khan Development Network: Local
knowledge, longevity, realistic expectations

For decades the Aga Khan has supported local initiatives in Northern Afghanistan, Northern Pakistan, and Eastern Tajikistan—areas geographically and economically isolated, environmentally marginal, and marked by interethnic tensions. The Aga Khan Development Network (AKDN) approach was forged in
self-help traditions to “facilitate change that is . . . long-lasting in consequence
and sustainable into the future.”69 In Afghanistan, Tajikistan, and Pakistan, the
AKDN cements its commitment in protocols, agreements, and treaties with local,
district, and national governments. It builds a diverse donor base, including
local, national, and international contributions; invests heavily in local management and implementation capacity; develops approaches and services that can
be sustained by local partners and institutions if donor interest declines; and
adopts a cautious approach to area and program expansion unless driven by
local demands, priorities, and readiness.70 Typical engagements exceed 20 years.
Working closely with communities, local institutions, and government entities, the AKDN bases its development approach on trust earned through demonstrated long-term commitment to these regions and their peoples. That commitment is reﬂected in its staﬀ: some 95 percent are nationals or regional
expatriates who work in beneﬁciary communities for many years.
Sources: Aga Khan Development Network 2003, 2010; Agence Française de Développement and others 2005; Commission on Growth and Development 2008.

five years, with many projects having an even
shorter life cycle. Foundational reforms can
rarely be achieved within such time frames,
and so are subject to renegotiation whenever
a strategy or project ends.
Long-term security commitments are
also rare. The majority of peacekeeping missions run from two to six years—for understandable reasons. A long-term presence on
the ground would be both exceedingly costly
and unwelcome by host communities and
states. UN missions do exist that have been
present for decades—such as the UN Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan
(since 1949) and the UN Peacekeeping Force
in Cyprus (since 1964)—but these are small
in size and mandate. Over-the-horizon forces
or longer-term security commitments are
alternatives to too short or too long deployments. But the use of such devices to provide
long-term security support has been rare. An
exception is the European Union’s Congo
force, which provided MONUC with rapid
and strategic support during the national
elections of 2006.71

Despite the need for sustained support for
institution building, volatility of aid flows is
a major problem, especially in fragile states.
Practitioners have long argued that fluctuations in donor aid destabilize the budget and
fiscal deficit, and that predictable assistance
is needed to enhance a government’s capacity to plan expenditures rationally.72 Insecure
situations are in particular need of consistent
support because of the high potential that
interrupted reforms will be reversed. Yet aid
to fragile and conflict-affected states is much
more volatile than that to other developing countries—indeed, more than twice as
volatile, with the efficiency costs of volatility
much more profound in fragile states than
in those with stronger institutions (see box
6.7). In a recent study, the economic losses
associated with volatile net official development assistance were more than twice as
high for weak states as for strong states (2.54
percent versus 1.19 percent of GDP).73 These
estimates suggest that from 30 to 50 percent
of volatility is donor-driven, independent of
events in or actions by the recipient country.

International support to building confidence and transforming institutions

B OX 6.7

Stop-go aid: Volatility in selected fragile states

Over the last 20 years, countries that experienced longer periods of fragility, violence, or conﬂict experienced more volatility in their aid. Figure A shows that the coeﬃcient of variance (CV) of net oﬃcial development assistance (ODA), excluding debt relief, is higher for countries that have experienced more violence
since 1990. This relationship, reﬂected by the upward trend line, is statistically signiﬁcant and suggests that,
on average, a country that experienced 20 years of violence experienced twice the volatility in aid of a
country that did not experience violence. Volatility of revenues has considerable costs for all governments,
but particularly so in fragile situations where it may derail reform eﬀorts and disrupt institution-building.
F I G U R E A Aid volatility higher for countries that have
Coeﬃcient of variance of net ODA,
excluding debt relief

experienced violence
1.4
1.2
1
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0
0

2

4

6

8

10

12

14

16

18

20

Number of years of high homicides, conﬂict, and fragility
Low-income countries

Linear (Low-income countries)

Source: WDR team calculations based on OECD 2010d.

This volatility is illustrated by ﬁgure B—it was not uncommon for total aid to Burundi, the Central African
Republic, Guinea-Bissau, and Haiti to drop by 20 or 30 percent in one year and increase by up to 50 percent the following year (humanitarian aid and debt relief, excluded from these statistics, would further
increase the volatility).
F I G U R E B Annual percentage change in disbursed aid per capita,

net of debt relief and humanitarian assistance

Annual % change in aid per capita

Aid to these four fragile countries has been extremely volatile over
the past 15 years. Aid to Guinea-Bissau more than doubled in
2003, only to be cut in half th e following year. Likewise, the Central
African Republic experienced a doubling of aid in 2004 and a 25
percent cut in 2 005. This applies in all f ragile states, for which
variance in aid is 0.7 compared to 0.3 in other developing contexts.
150
100
50
0
–50
–100
1996

1998
Burundi

2000

2002

Central African Republic

Source: WDR team calculations based on OECD 2010d.

2004

2006

Guinea-Bissau

2008
Haiti

195

196

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

Using methodology developed in Kharas and
adopting conservative assumptions, a reduction in volatility of 30 percent by donors
would deliver a value to each recipient fragile or conflict-affected country of US$27–39
million a year.74
Short project duration and small project size compound the problem. While the
median IDA (International Development
Association, the World Bank’s “fund for the
poorest”) operation is US$22.7 million, it is
as little as US$116,000 and US$65,000 for
some bilateral donors.75 According to a European Commission study, 63 percent of all
donor projects in Cambodia have a duration
of less than three years, and over one-third, a
duration of less than a year.76 A performance
review of aid partners in Mozambique indicates that while the number of multiyear aid
projects has increased, most of them are still
only for two years.77 Longer project life cycles
is vital, given the timelines for institutional
transformations, even under the most accelerated conditions.

Approaches adapted to the local context
The international community remains
tempted to emphasize form rather than the
function to be accomplished.78 Within a
year of its creation, for example, the Coalition Provisional Authority (CPA) in Iraq
promulgated more than 100 separate regulations and orders covering a wide range
of security, economic, and administrative
matters. Although the international drafters
tried to improvise in a complex and volatile
setting, they were hampered by their lack of
knowledge of Arabic, local sociopolitical realities, and Iraq’s broader jurisprudential
principles. As the United States Special
Inspector-General for Iraq Reconstruction
reported, “The CPA—and the U.S. government agencies that supported it—demonstrated an inadequate understanding of
both Iraqi culture and the complicated internal political relationships that existed
among and within various Iraqi groups.”79

The general response of the international
community to the pervasive capacity deficits
in fragile situations is technical assistance. Because they are constrained by short contracts
and under pressure to deliver reports, technical advisers often bring with them a focus
on transplanted best practices from other
country experiences, which can undermine
the search for tailored and context-specific,
best-fit approaches. In fragile states, technical assistance works best in the turnaround
period, when leaders and reformers are looking for help in well-specified areas.80 The attributes of effective technical assistance in
fragile environments have long been established.81 Yet, despite a general understanding
of the elements of good design, much technical assistance has not been well prepared
or effectively implemented. Some critiques
include the following:
• A quarter of international aid to Afghanistan goes for technical assistance, intended
to support government capacity-building,
with minimal impact.82
• More than 80 cents of every dollar of
aid Kosovo receives is delivered as technical assistance, but this has not produced lasting capacity within government institutions.83
• Despite there being only five donors involved in technical cooperation in Sierra
Leone in 2007, a mere 22 percent of
aid dollars was coordinated with country
programs.84
• Donor technical assistance services have
been between 11 and 30 percent more expensive than those available from other
vendors.85
Bilateral and regional actors86 have also
created civilian surge capabilities with rosters of experts who can be deployed at short
notice to countries affected by violence.87
But large numbers of expatriate personnel,
particularly if deployed for short periods
without knowledge of the country context,
are, as with “normal” technical assistance,

International support to building confidence and transforming institutions

unlikely to build sustainable capacity. The
UN Independent Review of Civilian Capacities recently reached a similar conclusion,
stressing national ownership and partnership as key principles for the UN’s civilian
response.88 Providing capacity to deliver
donor-designed projects is very different in
both philosophy and approach to supporting national institutional capacities to deliver good-quality public services.89
South-South learning offers promise for
effective capacity development and best-fit
approaches because it can draw on knowledge from countries that have more recently
experienced transitions or share regional
political, economic, or sociocultural characteristics.90 The African Development Bank
(AfDB), UNDP, and the World Bank all
now have specific South-South facilities, the
AfDB’s being notable for its size and focus on
fragile states.91
Learning from recent transformations in
middle-income countries can be particularly
valuable. The Brazilian NGO Viva Rio works
in Haiti’s slum Bel Air to reduce armed violence, using its experience of working in
Brazilian favelas.92 Triangular cooperation to
support South-South cooperation, involving
a financing donor and a southern partner
providing technical assistance, has also shown
some success in peacebuilding.93 The Republic of Ireland engaged in a triangular learning
partnership with Liberia and Timor-Leste on
the role of women in conflict prevention,
management, and resolution.94 South-South
cooperation might prove particularly relevant
in supporting executive management.95 Another important area for South-South cooperation is peer learning for effective leadership
and the successful management of conflict.96

Internal international agency systems
Responsiveness to the local context in fragile situations is also hampered by internal
processes that were originally developed for
more stable environments. For example, the
international financial institutions’ procure-

ment procedures were based on the assumption of ongoing security, a reasonable level of
state institutional capacity, and competitive
markets. They thus have difficulty adapting to situations where security conditions
change between the design and the tendering
of a project, where a small number of qualified government counterparts struggle to
manage complex procurement documentation, and where the number of qualified contractors prepared to compete and mobilize is
very limited.
Similarly, the UN Secretariat originally
developed procurement systems designed
to support its function as a headquartersbased advisory service and secretariat to the
General Assembly. When peacekeeping operations were launched, these systems were
extended with relatively little adaptation to
all the requirements of a peacekeeping operation, despite the difference in contexts
and objectives. Most bilateral aid agencies
do not have “risk policies” specific to fragile and conflict-affected situations—instead,
they apply their normal criteria. Some donors have approaches or instruments that
recognize the problem, but these have not
yet been mainstreamed across country strategies or in the criteria for project funding
decisions.97
When the environment is insecure, these
standard procedures (procedural conformism,
as Liberia’s President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf
calls them in box 6.4) often do not produce
the results intended. Frequently complex
and time-consuming, they can be difficult to
manage for weak institutional counterparts
and can cause delays. In environments such
as Cambodia, Liberia, and Sudan, it has often
been difficult to find qualified international
contractors to bid on projects, and their
mobilization has been slow.98 Standard procedures can also undermine best-fit institutional approaches to develop capacity or they
can have difficulties in meeting objectives
of transparency and anti-corruption in environments with difficult political economy
considerations (box 6.8). The g7+ group of

197

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

B OX 6 .8

Publishing cost estimates as best practice?
Trade-offs between transparency and collusion

Transition opportunity: Pressure for speed
of action in fragile situations

Key stakeholders: Government agency
tendering, domestic citizens, domestic companies, international donors and companies

Key stresses: Perceptions of cronyism
toward contractors from particular political,
ethnic, regional groupings in contracting
that can exacerbate risks of violence

Institutional challenges: High insecurity,
low institutional capacity, shallow competition, legacy of past corrupt practice

Dual accountability dilemma: Conducting processes acceptable to international donors
and investors while achieving speed and legitimacy in local context
In its loan agreements, the World Bank often requires the publication of partner countries’
engineering estimates of the costs of building a road. When the market is competitive, publishing the estimates can produce lower bids. Such publication also ensures a procurement norm
of transparency and equity—that all bidders are on equal footing and companies with close
ties to the roads authority cannot obtain the estimates “under the table.”
Set against these beneﬁts is the risk that this procurement practice will facilitate the opposite of its intent—collusion. When ﬁrms are negotiating an agreement on a collusive price, the
cost estimate provides a target or focal point for their agreement. This eﬀect is dramatically
illustrated in a World Bank Institutional Integrity comparison of the estimated price against the
winning bid on 46 contracts for road construction and repair let during 2009 and 2010 under a
Bank-ﬁnanced project in an Eastern European country. The closeness of the two is inconceivable without collusion (see ﬁgure). As a result, a procurement norm has achieved neither the
goal of quick support—delays are created in publishing the estimate, nor fostering a legitimate
and transparent process—due to real or perceived collusion.
F I G U R E A Closeness of bids inconceivable without collusion
5
4.5
4
Cost (US$ millions)

198

3.5
3
2.5
2
1.5
1
0.5
0
0

2

4

6

8 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28 30 32 34 36 38 40 42 44 46
Contract Number
Estimated cost

Actual cost

Source: Adapted from discussion with the World Bank Integrity Vice Presidency in 2010.

fragile states’ Dili Declaration of May 2010
states: “Although we all accept international
standards, the donor community must be
aware of our conditions and needs. That is

why we must give ourselves a transitional period to reinforce our capabilities and systems
and not have complex and slow procedural
requirements and conditions imposed upon

International support to building confidence and transforming institutions

us.”99 Responsible leaders appreciate the ability of well-functioning fiduciary systems
to significantly reduce opportunistic rentseeking and reinforce rule-based behavior—
but they need processes adapted to the reality
of local conditions.100
Suggestions for “best-fit” procurement arrangements are not hard to come by. Country
experience points to the need for contracting
processes that allow direct negotiations with
knowledge of regional markets, a focus on
speed of mobilization and track record in
operating in insecure environments in contracting, better information to the local private sector about procurement procedures,
subcontracting to local contractors to build
their capacity, pre-tendering internationally
under variable quantity contracts, civil society monitoring of procurement to build trust,
simplifying processes and documentation
consistent with existing donor guidelines, and
decentralizing donor decision-making to the
country office.101 But the search for best-fit
procurement practices has proceeded further
in some donors than others, and multilateral
systems have not caught up with innovations
in bilateral procurement.
The fragmentation of international aid
efforts also acts against the provision of
institutional support at sufficient scale. Not
only have the number of donors and vertical
programs grown to more than the number
of recipient countries,102 but aid has itself
also become more fragmented. In the Democratic Republic of Congo, 30 active donors
are financing 362 projects in the health sector, 262 for less than US$1 million, and 305
projects in the justice sector, 199 for less than
US$1 million.103 A recent OECD study identified 32 countries receiving aid from 15 or
more donors.104 In contrast, studies on Botswana and the Republic of Korea argue that
development successes in these cases can be
at least partly attributed to the presence of
a single or dominant donor.105 Fragmented
assistance places a huge administrative burden on weak capacities, draining rather than
building them.

Focus on citizen security, justice,
and jobs
Assistance to countries struggling to develop
well-governed police, justice, and corrections
systems in the face of fluid violent threats is
much more limited than assistance available
to build military capacity. The supply of personnel is constrained, since states do not have
the kinds of reserve capacities in police or
criminal justice that they do in their militaries. For justice, the UN’s Independent Review
on Civilian Capacities found that it was one
of the largest lacunae in international civilian mechanisms, despite efforts to fill gaps.106
The UN Department of Peacekeeping Operations (UNDPKO), bilateral donors, the
Inter-American Development Bank (IADB),
the UNDP, and others have each deepened
their delivery capacity related to citizen security and justice, and the World Bank has
expanded somewhat assistance for legal and
judicial issues—but major gaps in personnel
and delivery remain.
Support to the criminal justice system is
frequently more challenging to provide than
support to military reform and capacity
building because of the great disparities in
policies, legal frameworks, and organizational structures between different nationstate providers.107 These disparities have historically caused tensions in international
support to policing and civilian justice, from
Bosnia to Timor-Leste.108 Regional organizations like the European Union have focused
on training to bridge differences in national
practices. The UN’s 50-person-strong Standing Police Capacity and its Office of Rule of
Law and Security Institutions have also begun to make headway in developing standard
doctrine and training packages for police
units willing to deploy into UN operations,
but this is still a small capacity to manage the
current growth in police deployments, let
alone support a broader international capacity.109 There is no similar mechanism for joint
training of national judicial personnel to expose them to different systems and practices,

199

200

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

and less of a body of knowledge on approaching institution-building in fragile settings.
Structural constraints in the international
architecture also limit international support
to security and justice. The UN’s peacekeeping budget can support the deployment of
police forces, but only if a country is under a
Security Council mandate. This poses a major political obstacle to countries that might
seek international support for their police
sector but are hesitant to agree to being
on the Security Council’s agenda. Without a
peacekeeping operation, national authorities
can seek civilian or advisory support from
the UN and operational support from bilateral actors. But the former does not include
the actual deployment of police units, while
the latter lacks the legitimacy of support provided by a multilateral organization to which
the national authority belongs.
Chapter 5 described the common problems arising at a country level from disconnects between support to the military and
police and support to the civilian justice
system. The lack of a clear focal point for
criminal justice as a whole in the international system may underpin this problem—
remarkably, there are international agencies
for a wide range of functions, but no agency
charged with taking the lead on criminal
justice issues. Fragmentation of financial
support for the security sectors and civilian
justice functions, due to the current division
in what can be counted as “Official Development Assistance under DAC rules” and to
the differing financial rules applying under
peacekeeping missions and voluntary support in these areas, also exacerbates disconnected approaches on the ground.
With regard to employment creation, understandable shifts by donors to focus support
on the MDGs have led many to dedicate significant parts of their development assistance to
health, education, and basic services like water
and sanitation—with relatively little emphasis
on job creation. International economic policy advisory services have generally focused
on growth rather than jobs. This has included
consideration of labor-intensive growth paths
as central to poverty reduction, but has placed

relatively little emphasis on the value of employment in terms of violence prevention,
and the type and quality of employment that
can strengthen social cohesion and promote a
positive role for youth in the community. As
a result, there is little consensus on the type
of employment-related interventions that
can systematically make a difference in fragile environments. An exception is the use of
community-based public works: while having
very different designs, programs supported
by bilateral donors, UN agencies, and international financial institutions in Afghanistan,
Indonesia, Nepal, Burundi, Rwanda, and various Latin American countries have generated
considerable transitional employment. Some
bilateral donors, such as the United States and
India, have also dedicated a significant proportion of their assistance in fragile states to
income-generating activities.
The role of the private sector in mitigating
and recovering from the effects of violence at
both the local and national level is now widely
recognized,110 especially if creating jobs and
incomes is to outlast donor-funded, shortterm emergency works. Various innovative
schemes, including some supported by the
International Finance Corporation and by
several bilateral donors, have proven effective
in building up private sector and entrepreneurship capacity; examples include linking
local entrepreneurs to larger national or international businesses and linking education
to entrepreneurship development.111 Donors
such as the Multilateral Development Banks,
Japan, and China provide significant investments in infrastructure that supports private
sector development.112 However, the international community has not paid as much
attention to labor-intensive private sector
development as is warranted by the importance of equitable growth and job creation
for violence prevention.113

Dual accountability and managing
the risks of action
International actors know that fast engagement, long-term commitments, and support

201

International support to building confidence and transforming institutions

FIGURE 6.2

International support to nation-states—The dual
accountability dilemma

National
Actors

Accountability

International
Actors

Accountability

Accountability

Accountability

to national institutions are central to preventing repeated cycles of violence.114 Why
then is international practice slow to change?
We argue that this is because of the “dual
accountability dilemma”—international actors, whether bilateral or multilateral, are
accountable first to their domestic constituencies and shareholders, and only second to
their counterparts or to the citizens of recipient states. This leads them to emphasize one
set of risks—the risks of action and of engagement with weak counterpart institutions—at
the expense of the risks of inaction or lack
of long-term institution-building outcomes,
for which there is less accountability (figure
6.2). The consequences are twofold: privileging the reputational risks of action over the
consequential risks of delay and hesitation
to channel financing and assistance through
the budget of fragile national institutions.
Working in fragile states necessarily involves uncertainty, fluidity, and high
risk—but there are risks of action and risks
of inaction. A highly simplified example
illustrates the problem: A community of
100,000 people faces a dire humanitarian threat. The external world is willing
to help and has two broad options to do
so. Both are estimated to cost US$50 million. Under option A, external donors can
wait six months to ensure that all the funds
will be used appropriately, but this will
mean that only 20 percent of the people
will be saved. Under option B, donors can
be confident of saving all the people, but
can only be confident that 80 percent of
the funds can be properly accounted for.
Which option to choose? Most people would
say that option B should be chosen. Indeed,
sensitivity to the risk of inaction and a tolerance for a certain degree of fiduciary risk
underpins humanitarian interventions—
and most humanitarian actors would adopt
option B.
Now consider this for developmental or
peacekeeping interventions: airlift support
for troops; financing to pay salaries of police,
education, and health workers and to keep
the electricity system functioning; and a program to reopen schools are deemed highly

Domestic constituencies

Domestic constituencies

Source: WDR team.

likely to prevent the spread of violence. The
same options are available—option A, wait
six months to be confident that the funds will
be used properly, but at the cost of averting
an estimated 20 percent of the risk, or option B, act immediately with a high degree of
confidence that violence can be averted, but
with confidence that only 80 percent of the
funds can be satisfactorily accounted. Again,
most people would say option B should be
chosen.
There is no certainty that development
interventions will save lives and prevent the
spread of violence—while hasty interventions often are less likely to succeed. But what
if the risk is differentiated? One can probably
judge that delays in the arrival of peacekeeping troops and the financing for salaries and
the electricity system are likely to spur violence if no action is taken—80 percent likely,
for the sake of illustration. For the schools
program, however, one might judge this risk
to be lower and that spending a few months
working on the design of the program would
deliver better results. Most people would then
say pay for the airlift, the salaries, and the
electricity—but wait for the schools program.
Yet, in practice, the development community
would likely treat the issues of electricity and
schooling in the same manner; and while the
UN Security Council sometimes takes deci-

202

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

sions rapidly, the supporting infrastructure
for peacekeeping deployments results in option A outcomes. The strategic challenge is to
move from should to would—in other words,
to rework risk-management systems to better align risk measurement and risk-taking to
optimal outcomes.
A further example of the impact of dual
accountability is donor reluctance to channel
assistance through the national budget and
national institutions in a violence-affected
and fragile state despite its impact on transforming institutions. In addition to avoiding
the negative effects of parallel systems, aid
through the budget supports institutional
mechanisms of political decision-making on
priorities and trade-offs, leverages the development of public financial management and
accountability systems, and creates a tool
for coordinating international assistance.115
However, donors confront a dilemma—assistance to weak institutions is needed if they
are ever to become strong, but their weakness
in itself poses political and fiduciary risks.116
In these high-risk engagements, the international community is therefore prone to rely
on bilateral and multilateral organizations to
perform functions normally performed by
the state,117 in order to avoid being associated
with the corrupt use of resources or the violence or human rights abuses by the parties
being supported.

Available options for risk management
A range of approaches that deal with differing levels of fiduciary and reputational risk
exist to engage with national institutions.
They include greater independent oversight
and monitoring of government-executed
programs. For instance, in Afghanistan and
the West Bank and Gaza under World Bank–
administered multidonor trust funds, independent monitors have been employed to
scrutinize procurement and expenditures by
both national institutions and international
contractors.118 A related example is releasing
donor funds only upon unqualified monthly
or quarterly audits by a certified external
auditing firm, as undertaken for the Uganda

Veterans Assistance Program.119 A third is in
external financial management and procurement agencies, where international firms have
overall responsibility for program financial
management and procurement and maintain a program’s consolidated budget and accounts, as was carried out in demobilization
and reintegration in Angola, Guinea-Bissau,
and Sierra Leone.120 A fourth is “dual key”
programs, where both national and international actors sign off on critical, high-risk
transactions, such as the Liberia Governance
and Economic Management Assistance Program described in chapter 4. And a fifth is inkind support to items in the national budget,
as in Zimbabwe, where a bilateral donor has
directly financed, procured, and provided
such items through contractors, as with the
provision of medicines to state-run clinics.
These approaches can manage donor fiduciary risk and provide space to establish and
strengthen national systems. But since they
use international expertise, they are generally
expensive. A range of more localized options
is also available to engage with national institutions while dealing with differing levels
of fiduciary and reputational risk. They include community-driven development programs (chapter 4) and contracting to NGOs
using results-based financing and outputbased aid in key sectors. Direct support to
subnational administrations and assistance
through nongovernment agencies that employ local staff are other ways of managing
assistance outside government budget systems in situations of weak governance, maintaining a focus on local institutional capacity
and skilled personnel.
Pooling funds also provides a way to manage risk. Multi-Donor Trust Funds (MDTFs)
have increasingly been used in fragile and
conflict-affected situations—for example, in
Afghanistan and Southern Sudan (box 6.9),
Iraq, Indonesia, West Bank and Gaza, and
Haiti. MDTFs can help to bridge the dual
accountability dilemma. For national actors,
they improve the transparency of donor investments, ensure greater coherence with national planning, and provide a platform for
resource mobilization. For donors, MDTFs

International support to building confidence and transforming institutions

B OX 6.9

Multidonor trust funds: Afghanistan and Southern Sudan

Types of violence: Intergroup, ethnic, and political violence; organized crime and traﬃcking;
cross-border; transnational; ideological
Transition opportunity: Initial large space
for change; Bonn Accord/Comprehensive
Peace Agreement; elections; national
development budget

Key stakeholders: Federal and local government, security forces, militias, community
leaders, civil society groups, citizens, women,
international partners, armed transnational
groups

Key stresses: Legacies of violence and
trauma, cross-border violence, criminal
networks, low incomes, youth unemployment, corruption, gender discrimination

Institutional challenges: Severe accountability and capacity constraints in public
administration, security, judicial, and political
institutions; lack of representation of women

Dual accountability dilemma: Accountability and capacity constraints at the national level
made multidonor trust funds an attractive solution; trust fund arrangements took advantage
of the mandates and competencies of the UN and the World Bank.

Afghanistan
UNDP established the Afghan Interim Authority Fund (AIAF), supported by 24 donors and
valued at US$73 million for a limited period of six months, to pay for the most pressing needs
of reestablishing the civil service: paying salaries, rehabilitating government buildings, and
procuring equipment. This support bolstered government capability and legitimacy in the
early phases of transition and bridged the gap until such time as a subsequent MDTF could
provide long-term budget support and ﬁnance investment programs.
The Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF), supported by 32 donors, disburses
funds through a ”recurrent window” to ﬁnance the budget (salaries of civil servants and facility
costs, particularly in education and health) and an “investment window” to support the government’s National Priority Programmes. The ARTF is intended to coordinate funding and
reduce the burden on the government, promote transparency and accountability, and reinforce the role of the national budget in promoting national objectives. Since its inception in
2002, donors have committed US$4 billion (as of December 2010), the largest contribution to
the Afghan budget. The ARTF moved quickly, disbursing 99 percent of committed funds in
2003–04 and 75 percent in 2005–06, serving as the main vehicle for ﬁnancing payment
of government salaries, as well as key projects such as the Salang Tunnel and the National
Solidarity Program. UNDP administers the complementary Law and Order Trust Fund for
Afghanistan (LOTFA), which largely funds police salaries. The current phase of LOTFA was
funded by 15 donors providing around US$306 million.

Southern Sudan
A US$545 million Southern Sudan Multidonor Trust Fund was established in 2005, with
ﬁnancing from 14 donors and with the World Bank appointed as trust fund administrator.
The government of Southern Sudan, donors, NGOs, and civil society have criticized the
MDTF for slowness and ineﬃciency, lagging disbursements, and inﬂexibility. Reviews have
pointed to the World Bank’s underestimation of logistical diﬃculties, institutional deﬁciencies,
and communication challenges—and to inconsistent managerial oversight, especially in the
critical early phase. Part of the explanation for this was the dilemma faced by the World Bank
in trying to balance the risk posed by swift action (possible misuse of the funds) with the risks
of inaction (failing to disburse funds and not achieving goals).
The World Bank has taken steps to improve the fund’s management—disbursements in
2010 amounted to US$188 million and reached a total of US$400 million by December 2010
(almost three-quarters of the funds committed).
Source: Scanteam 2007; Fenton and Phillips 2009; Randel 2010; Atos Consulting 2009; Scanteam 2010;
OECD 2010c; Government of Afghanistan and UNDP 2010; World Bank 2005a, 2009a, 2010b, 2010j;
Randel and Mowjee 2006.

203

204

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

can reduce transaction costs and provide a
forum for donor collaboration and dialogue
with national authorities, while MDTF secretariats can provide information to capitals
that donors may not be able to generate on
their own.121 MDTFs can enable donors to
adopt a collective approach to the risks inherent in transition situations. 122 In the humanitarian context, pooled mechanisms may
increase funding levels because they enable
donors to disburse larger sums than they can
manage directly.
MDTFs, however, are rarely the most important financing instrument in conflict settings—total funding through some 18 operative MDTFs in 2007 amounted to US$1.2
billion, still a small fraction of international
financing for fragile and conflict-affected
states.123 Moreover, MDTF performance has
been uneven across country examples in
speed and delivery of outputs, in quality of
processes, and in stakeholder perceptions of
success. Recent evaluations of MDTFs have
pointed to inconsistency of MDTF management processes within and across agencies,
the need for better management of expectations, more robust monitoring and impact
evaluation, quicker delivery of funds to support national confidence building, and more
emphasis on support through national systems for institution building.124 Balancing
the competing demands of providing shortterm financing and building longer-term institutional capacity is illustrated in the experience of the Southern Sudan MDTF.
Because of their high-profile nature and
complex governance system, MDTFs can
also increase risk aversion within their hosting agency. Bilateral donors, in effect, transfer
their risk to multilateral MDTF administrators.125 There can also be micromanagement
by donors of MDTF portfolios and earmarking of funds, undermining alignment with
nationally driven strategy and budgeting.126

Monitoring progress out of fragility
Making the dual accountability dilemma
even worse is a lack of systems to monitor

progress out of fragility. The only agreed
global framework for measuring the results
of development assistance is the MDGs
and their associated indicators. No global
measures exist to assess progress in efforts to improve human and citizen security. So a simple agreed set of indicators
to measure progress in reducing violence
and creating better institutions would allow
both the international community and national leaders to track progress on violence
risk management alongside the MDGs.
Nor do reliable global data exist on levels or
patterns of insecurity. Basic data on war battle
deaths are poor—best estimates are missing
in 36 percent of the cases, and low and high
estimates are often separated by an order of
magnitude.127 The quality of data on indirect
deaths due to war is significantly worse—estimates of casualties in Iraq for 2003 to 2006
range from 50,000 to 600,000.128 Homicide
data are similarly inadequate for monitoring
violence. While every OECD country reports
homicide statistics for every year of the past
five, only 62 percent of developing countries
have one or more observations for the past
five years, and only 29 percent of fragile or
conflict-affected states in Sub-Saharan Africa
report a single homicide rate.
An innovative approach that tracks conflict and violence reported in the local press
is being used in Aceh since the signing of
the peace accord in August 2005.129 Another
source of information on attitudes toward
domestic violence is UNICEF’s periodic
Multiple Indicator Cluster Surveys, which
cover around 100 countries, many of them
fragile and violence-affected. On the whole,
however, there are few agreed baselines for
measuring reductions in violence. Better data
collection is an easy win for improving international responses (chapter 9).
Polling to measure citizen confidence and
expectations over time is rarely used in fragile states. Perception-based polling could be
an important part of measuring citizen priorities and citizen trust in government. Such
data have rarely been collected consistently
in fragile states,130 for reasons that range from

International support to building confidence and transforming institutions

poor communications and underfunded
organizations to fears of how the information will be used.131 But technological advances make collecting survey data easier—
this WDR, for example, carried out rapid
SMS (short message service) surveys in the
Democratic Republic of Congo.132

Lessons of international
engagement
The paradox of dual accountability is well
understood by actors on the ground—the
question is how to do better. Any number
of major reports on international assistance
that have to do with conflict-affected countries in the last decade have underlined the
limits to what international support can do
to reduce conflict and bring about institutional transformation in fragile conditions.
This chapter calls for the consistent application of best-fit practices that have already

proved their usefulness, and reaches the following three conclusions:
• First, there are serious gaps in support for
citizen security, justice, and jobs for countries struggling to prevent violence.
• Second, “procedural conformism” in international agencies is unsuited to the
challenges of rapid confidence-building
and best-fit approaches to institutional
transformation. Better ways to manage accountability to domestic taxpayers and local counterparts are needed.
• Third, new challenges and the changing landscape of international assistance
require new efforts to work together.
Complex problems of political and criminal violence require the combined capacities of diplomatic, security, and
development actors—and better understanding between OECD, low-income,
middle-income, and regional partners.

205

206

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

FEATURE 6

A tale of two assistance programs—Liberia and Guinea-Bissau

Liberia: Strong leadership, critical recovery assistance
Types of violence: Civil conﬂict, political violence, criminal and gang-related violence, traﬃcking
Transition opportunity: Signiﬁcant space for change following
the Comprehensive Peace Agreement in September 2003

Key stakeholders: Ex-combatants, victims, government,
opposition parties, international partners and peacekeepers

Key stresses: Legacy of abuse, violence, trauma grievances and
mistrust, corruption, unemployment, ethnic competition

Institutional challenges: Accountability and capacity constraints
in economic, security, judicial, and political spheres

Dual accountability dilemma: Need to increase capacity in national institutions in an environment of extreme ﬁduciary risk

T

he international community can provide critical assistance
to fragile states during difficult transitions. When done
well, this support can make a major difference to countries
trying to avoid or recover from violent conflict, but only when
domestic processes are headed in a positive direction. The recent history of international support to Liberia and GuineaBissau offer two starkly contrasting stories (see box 6.10).
The international community played a key role in supporting the Accra Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA), signed
in Accra, Ghana, in September 2003, which brought an end to
two civil wars that had devastated Liberia. The UN mobilized
a peacekeeping mission of 25,000 troops. The highest troopto-population ratio in the history of peacekeeping, it provided
a credible deterrent against opponents of the peace process
and third-party assurances that peace would be maintained.
Liberia’s transition government, however, experienced serious governance and corruption problems (see below). Yet,
with a peace agreement and international security guarantees
in place, Liberia’s GDP grew at a healthy 6.4 percent a year
between 2004 and 2008 (having contracted by almost a third
in 2003). In the same period, the international aid community
provided US$2.6 billion to Liberia, an average of US$146 per
capita per year (total international spending, including security, was considerably higher at US$415 per capita in 2008—
the highest to date in Africa).
That was not all. International actors such as the UN and
the World Bank worked with the government of Liberia to lift
public confidence through an innovative program to provide
jobs, restart the economy, and provide tangible evidence of the
peace process. “Roads with UNMIL” restored hundreds of kilometers of roads, reconnecting areas of the country long isolated from one another by the war, enabling trade to resume,
and facilitating humanitarian relief efforts. Drawing on the
resources and expertise of different agencies in the political,
security, and development fields, the project delivered results
in the short term, while facilitating reform in the transport
sector in the medium term. Going beyond the confines of in-

frastructure development, it offered short-term employment
opportunities for many ex-combatants and non-combatants.
Liberia’s recovery trajectory also shows how regional
organizations can help. The ECOWAS worked with donors
on confidence building tailored to the Liberian milieu. The
Governance and Economic Management Assistance Program
(GEMAP, see box 4.2), introduced in the run-up to the 2005
elections, provides “dual key” authority in the areas of revenue earning and expenditure. Jointly managed by the government and the international community, it was designed
specifically to reassure a skeptical population and donors that
years of official looting and corruption were over and that services would be reliably delivered. Economic governance has
improved under GEMAP and, with consistent international
commitment and willingness to share risk, it has helped reinforce confidence in state institutions. While noting these positives, critics point out that the slow transfer of knowledge and
capacity to local authorities and stakeholders may have created
dependency—highlighting the importance of integrated and
sustained external engagement with national institutions.
Seven years after signing the CPA, Liberia qualified for
the World Bank/IMF Heavily Indebted Poor Countries initiative, setting in motion the largest per-capita debt write-off
in history. The peace process has since been consolidated,
driven by determined, output-oriented national leadership
and pragmatic international support. Today, Liberia has initiated a process of stabilization that few dared imagine a few
years earlier. The challenge now is to ensure that this extraordinary and successful episode in international support is
not ended prematurely, that emerging stresses continue to be
clearly identified, and that legitimate, accountable institutions
receive sustained support.
In contrast to the coordinated international support for Liberia, no comparable international effort was made in nearby
Guinea-Bissau. This in part reflects a lack of international confidence in national governance and country leadership—but
similar conditions existed in Liberia before the 2005 elections.

International support to building confidence and transforming institutions

207

Guinea-Bissau: Weak national processes, uneven international support
Types of violence: Civil conﬂict, political violence, organized crime and traﬃcking, transnational crime
Transition opportunity: Repeated and brief opportunities for change: multiparty elections, peace agreements
after civil war, National Stability Pact

Key stakeholders: Federal and local government, military, citizens,
regional institutions, international partners, international drug cartels

Key stresses: Legacies of violence and trauma, ethnic
competition, external support for domestic rebels,
international criminal networks, low incomes, youth
unemployment, corruption

Institutional challenge: Severe accountability and capacity constraints
in public administration, security, judicial, and political institutions; lack of
access to services; lack of inclusion of diﬀerent groups

Dual accountability dilemma: International community that viewed preventive action as too risky; national actors that needed early
and sustained support to combat domestic violence and the inﬂuence of international traﬃcking

Over the past 15 years, there have been sporadic windows of
opportunity, but with leadership commitment to overcoming
the rifts in society largely found wanting, they received scant
support from the international community. Today GuineaBissau remains one of the world’s most impoverished nations
and an “aid orphan,” with a human development index rank
of 164 among 169 countries in 2010.
Since independence in the 1960s, Guinea-Bissau has been
ruled mainly as a one-party regime interrupted by coups and
a civil war (1998–99). International pressures for democracy as
a condition for aid led to a tentative move toward a multiparty
political system in 1991. A moment of opportunity came in 1994
with the first multiparty elections. But aside from proclaiming
the elections to be “transparent, free, and fair,” the international
community remained largely absent. Similarly, during the civil
war, the international community kept its distance, while regional institutions such as ECOWAS and the African Union
attempted to mediate and enforce peacekeeping.
Peace and elections in 1999–2000 gave rise to new hopes,
and the UN set up its Peacebuilding Support Office in
Guinea-Bissau (UNOGBIS). A donor conference was organized to support post-war recovery and reconstruction, and
the IMF and World Bank provided emergency assistance.
Hopes were undermined by continued poor governance—
without the supporting mechanisms in place in Liberia.
The response of the international community: further isolation. In what looked like an increasingly risky environment,
the IMF suspended assistance while the African Development
Bank and the World Bank cut back their programs. Without
budgetary support, civil servant salaries went unpaid. Real
GDP contracted by 4.1 percent in 2002 and 0.6 percent in
2003. A coup d’état soon followed.
Elections were held in 2005, a new government was formed,
and the international community slowly reengaged. The UN
strengthened UNOBGIS’ mandate to include supporting political dialogue and national reconciliation and upholding the
rule of law and human rights. There was agreement between
the new government and the few donors present in the coun-

try on strategic priorities—reforming the security sector, paying salaries to the military and civil service, and restoring some
electrical service to the capital.
The IMF resumed assistance and a donor meeting was held
in Lisbon in February 2005. But only €1.5 million was pledged.
A donors’ roundtable in 2006 was more successful—amid
growing concerns about the influence of the drug trade and
criminal networks, some US$280 million was pledged, though
continuing political instability remained an obstacle to delivering funds.
In 2007, in reaction to the president’s unconstitutional dismissal of the prime minister, parliamentarians formed a majority coalition. They committed the three largest parties in the
assembly to a national stability pact and, after months of negotiations, passed a vote of no confidence that forced the president
to appoint a new prime minister. Hopes were dashed when the
pact collapsed, triggering a new political crisis and the fall of
the government. In 2008, another round of elections, which received some limited international assistance to ensure the electoral staff was paid, produced another new government.
Guinea-Bissau remains deeply fragile and insecure. In 2009,
it was thrown into further turmoil with the assassination of
the president, a top general, and two ministers. Drug trafficking has become a major concern. Security sector reforms
remain integral in addressing this rising violence, but so far
have received limited backing from international actors. The
EU and ECOWAS have helped settle some salary arrears, and
Angola and South Africa have modest programs in place. But
the international community is largely absent—without responsible national leadership, it is unwilling or unable to take
the risk and provide the kind of sustained support that could
have helped Guinea-Bissau back on its feet.

Sources: AllAfrica 2009; Andersen 2010; Atkinson 2008; Bøås 2009; Dwan
and Bailey 2006; Jahr 2010; Government of the Republic of Liberia Executive Mansion 2009; Giovine and others 2010; UNDP 2010b; International
Crisis Group 2008a, 2009b; Gberie 2003b; Economist Intelligence Unit
2008b; IRIN 2005; Vulliamy 2008.

208

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

REFLECTIONS FROM ADVISORY COUNCIL MEMBERS: 2011 WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT
B OX 6 .10

Uneven international support to violence prevention and recovery in West Africa
Mohamed Ibn Chambas, Secretary-General of the African, Caribbean, and Pacific Group of States (ACP),
Former President of the Economic Community of West African States; WDR Advisory Council Member
We assumed the successes chalked up in Liberia would
be enough justiﬁcation to see similar quick and strong
responses from the international community in GuineaBissau to avoid recurrence of violence and conﬂict. That was
not to be. Consequently, the country still totters on the
brink of instability, violence, conﬂict, or state disintegration,
given the real threat posed by drug traﬃcking.
The neglect of the international community made it
diﬃcult for a number of regional initiatives to put the
country on a path of steady recovery and eventual takeoﬀ.
A donor conference in Geneva in 2006 to raise funds for
a security sector and national reconstruction plan was
poorly attended; ECOWAS ended up pledging the most
funding. Nor was the national strategy for combating drug
traﬃcking adequately funded, even though its destabiliz-

ing impact on the country and the region was and still is
evident.
Above all, the failure to provide funding for the much
needed security sector reform has been particularly disappointing and baﬄing. The impunity and persistent incursion into the political domain by the military can only be
tackled through a comprehensive security sector reform that
addresses the legal, institutional, and capacity weaknesses of
various security agencies (military, police, immigration, prisons,
customs) and the judicial system. ECOWAS did not succeed in
obtaining for Guinea-Bissau the requisite resources to embark
on the urgently needed reforms in this strategic sector.
The contrast in international support to Liberia as compared to Guinea or Guinea-Bissau was quite noticeable and a
source of great frustration to us at ECOWAS.

Notes
1. In 1990, Freedom House gave civil liberties in Mozambique the worst possible score and political
rights the second-worst on a scale of 1 to 7, whereas the scores had both improved to 3 in 2009.
Freedom House uses a 1 to 7 scale, where 7 indicates the lowest level of freedom, with few or no
political rights because of severe government oppression, sometimes in combination with civil war.
At the other end of the scale, countries and territories with a rating of 1 enjoy a wide range of political rights, including free and fair elections.
2. The megaprojects include the Mozal aluminum smelter, the Cahora Bassa hydroelectric plant, and
Sasol gas project. See Cadeado and Hamela 2009; World Bank 2005b.
3. UNDPKO 2010b, 2010c.
4. WDR team calculations based on OECD 2010d.
5. Davies and others 2008; Meidan 2006.
6. South-South bilateral aid increased by some 68 percent, from 2004 to 2008, to an estimated US$626
million. Data for several major non-DAC development partners, such as China and India, are not
included in this estimate (see OECD-DAC 2010b).
7. The following multilateral organizations and governments had special envoys or representatives to
Afghanistan or Afghanistan and Pakistan in 2009–10: United Kingdom, United States, United Nations, European Union, Netherlands, Sweden, Norway, France, Australia, Belgium, China, Germany,
Japan, Denmark.
8. New York University Center on International Cooperation 2009.
9. Harvey and others 2010.
10. This interdependence has been recognized explicitly in, for instance, in the World Bank’s framework for rapid response to crisis and emergencies, which enables it to participate in integrated international support efforts for programs that include important linkages to areas outside the Bank’s
core competencies, while maintaining its engagement in areas of core competencies (World Bank
2007d, 2008b; Stewart and Brown 2007).
11. UN integrated missions are an instrument through which the UN seeks to help countries in the
transition from war to lasting peace, or address a similarly complex situation that requires a system-

International support to building confidence and transforming institutions

12.

13.

14.

15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.

23.

24.
25.
26.

27.
28.
29.

30.
31.
32.

33.
34.
35.

wide UN response, through subsuming various actors and approaches within an overall politicalstrategic crisis management framework. See Eide and others 2005; Campbell, Kaspersen, and Weir
2007.
“Whole-of-government approaches” refers to how agencies and ministries within a government administration can work coherently together in order to develop a comprehensive response to fragile
states in crisis. See DFID 2010, Stewart and Brown 2007; OECD-DAC 2006.
“Whole-of-system approaches” specifically refers to how regional and international organizations
and the international architecture in general can best develop policy coherence and a comprehensive response to fragile states in crisis. See DFID 2010.
These include the U.K. Stabilization Unit (created in 2004 as the Post-Conflict Reconstruction
Unit), U.S. Office of the Coordinator for Reconstruction and Stabilization, Canada’s Stabilization
and Reconstruction Task Force, the UN Peacebuilding Committee and Peacebuilding Support Office; and the AusAID Fragile States Unit (created in 2005).
OECD-DAC 2006.
Wainwright 2005; Dinnen, Porter, and Sage 2010.
Stewart and Brown 2007.
OECD-DAC 2007b.
Harborne and others 2010.
Chalmers 2007.
Peixoto, Andrade, and Azevedo 2008.
Annual budget costs compiled for UN political missions, Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) mission, and EU representatives by New York University’s Center on
International Cooperation.
Light mediation start-up budget (LMSB) covers the cost of a small mediation team that is required
to address a limited conflict. Such conflicts are typically clearly between two states or coherent parties within a state (without a regional dimension) that are amenable to resolution within a short
period of time (possibly within a year). The LMSB will allow UNDPA to establish a mediation effort
quickly and sustain it for up to three months, while the full costing for the initiative is being developed and resourced. Heavy mediation start-up budget (HMSB) covers the initial costs of addressing a complex conflict situation. Complex conflicts typically have local and regional dimensions,
and the mediation team is likely to be deployed in multiple locations. Complex conflicts are likely
to require a heavier presence in the capital and a presence in the regions and neighboring countries.
In this regard, the HMSB is intended to facilitate the rapid establishment of the initial UN presence
on the ground for a period of one year, while the costing of the full mediation team for the first and
subsequent years is developed and resourced.
An early, and still relevant, critique of this problem is found in de Soto and del Castillo 1994.
World Bank 2008b.
For discussion of the interaction between human rights and mediation communities, and the progressively greater incorporation of human rights provisions into peace agreements, see Stedman
1996.
Stedman 1996.
UN 2000, 2011.
For instance, the Guatemalan peace accords incorporated significant commitments for gender equity aimed at the elimination of discrimination against women, including the promotion of women’s political participation and their access to education, health, housing, and other resources—a
success attributed to the only female member in the peace negotiations. See Potter 2005.
UNIFEM, UN Action Against Sexual Violence in Conflict, and UNDPKO 2010.
International Alert and Women Waging Peace 2004.
A 2010 meeting of anglophone and francophone delegates in Kenya, convened by UNDP, coined
the phrase “collaborative capacities” and further refined the institutions relevant to prevention and
recovery from violence as “dynamic networks of interdependent structures, mechanisms, resources,
values, and skills which, through dialogue and consultation, contribute to conflict prevention and
peace-building in a society” (UN Interagency Framework for Coordination on Preventive Action
2010, 1).
Commonwealth Secretariat 2006; The Carter Center 2007; UNDPA 2010b.
Wolpe and McDonald 2006.
The WDR’s glossary defines commitment mechanisms as ways to persuade stakeholders that intentions to break with past policies will not be reversed, including creating independent functions

209

210

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

36.
37.
38.

39.

40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.

47.

48.

49.

50.

51.
52.

for implementing or monitoring agreements. This follows the common economic definition of
commitment mechanisms or commitment devices (e.g., see Dixit 1980, Schelling 1960, and Spence
1977). Doyle and Sambanis (2006, 111) find that treaties and UN missions work in concert and
note “a positive (though not large) correlation between UN mandates and the signing of a peace
treaty, since treaties are necessary for certain UN operations.” The UN can facilitate peace treaties
among parties, and enforce peace when agreements become unstuck as “without a treaty and transformational UN mission, the likelihood of success drops substantially from an initial value of about
80 per cent to less than 5 per cent at extreme values of hostility” (Doyle and Sambanis 2006, 130).
See also Human Security Centre 2005; Fortna 2008; Walter and Kydd 2002.
Hartzell, Hoddie, and Rothchild 2001.
Walter and Kydd 2002.
The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) is a coalition of governments, companies,
civil society groups, investors and international organizations. It aims to strengthen governance by
improving transparency and accountability in the extractives sector through the establishment of a
global standard for transparency in oil, gas, and mining. See EITI 2009.
The Natural Resource Charter is a set of economic principles for governments and societies on
how to best manage the opportunities created by natural resources for development. The charter
comprises 12 precepts, or principles, that encapsulate the choices and suggested strategies that governments might pursue to increase the prospects of sustained economic development from natural
resource exploitation. See Natural Resource Charter 2010.
Additional information regarding Liberia’s Governance and Economic Management Assistance
Program can be found in chapter 4, box 4.3.
A comprehensive study of 204 cases of sanctions imposed between 1914 and 2006, half of which
took place after 1990, found about one-third to be successful (Hufbauer and others 2007).
Nossal 1999; Wallensteen and others 2007.
Van Genugten and de Groot 1999; Bessler, Garfield, and McHugh 2004.
Cortright, Lopez, and Gerber 2002.
UN 2006a, 3.
CICIG has presented two legal reform packages to the Guatemalan Congress that seek to improve
the legal and institutional framework of the criminal prosecution of crimes that fall under CICIG’s
jurisdiction. To date, the Congress has approved four essential laws: Law on Arms and Ammunition,
Law to Strengthen Criminal Prosecutions, Law on Jurisdiction in High-Risk Criminal Proceedings,
and Reforms to the Law Against Organized Crime and Incidents. See CICIG 2009.
See, for example, the Lomé Declaration on the Framework for an OAU Response to Unconstitutional Change of Government (Organization of African Unity 2000) and the Inter-American
Democratic Charter (OAS 2001).
Both the UN and the international financial institutions consider regional stances in their approaches to governments, but no structured mechanisms exist to discuss this with the regional
institutions.
A major focus of humanitarian assistance in past years has been four deadly disease clusters––acute
respiratory infections, diarrheal diseases, malaria, and measles—all of which are major killers in
wartime. All are preventable and treatable at very low cost. Worldwide increases in immunization
coverage over the past 30-plus years have played a large part in reducing mortality from these diseases. Between 1974 and 2006, coverage for the six major vaccine-preventable diseases rose from
less than 5 percent to more than 75 percent of the world’s population. In addition to preventing
and treating disease, a significant share of humanitarian aid budgets is devoted to treating severe
malnutrition. Fatality rates for severely malnourished children have decreased because of this and
better treatment protocols. Peacetime immunization drives, together with the life-saving impact
of humanitarian assistance, have all contributed to reducing wartime mortality from disease and
malnutrition. See Human Security Report Project, forthcoming; Guha-Sapir and D’Aoust 2010.
These exceptions include where branding would “compromise the intrinsic independence or neutrality of a program or materials where independence or neutrality is an inherent aspect of the
program and material.” USAID 2009a, 16; 2010.
Stoddard, Harmer, and Haver 2006.
The “Brookings Process” brought together Office of the UNHCR, UNDP, and the World Bank in
2000 to more effectively address the “gaps” that occur in relief-to-development programs, funding,
and strategies.

International support to building confidence and transforming institutions

53. See section on education and health reforms as crucial medium-term challenges in chapter 5. Also
see World Bank 2002a, 2008g.
54. Jones, Gowan, and Sherman 2009.
55. U.S. Government Accountability Office 2010b.
56. Garassi 2010.
57. Government of Nepal, UNDP, and UNDG 2010.
58. World Bank and UN 2007.
59. International conflict and fragility assessment frameworks include: United States: Interagency Conflict Assessment Framework, 2009; United Kingdom: Strategic Conflict Assessment; DFID: Conducting Conflict Assessments: Guidance Notes, 2002; SIDA: Manual for Conflict Analysis, 2006;
UNDP: Conflict-Related Development Analysis, 2003; USAID: Conducing a Conflict Assessment,
2005; World Bank, Conflict Analysis Framework, 2002.
60. Chandran, Slotin, and Sorensen 2010.
61. U.S. Department of State 2009; DFID 2002.
62. World Bank and UN 2008.
63. OECD-DAC 2010a.
64. World Bank and UN 2007; see also International Dialogue on Peacebuilding and Statebuilding
2010.
65. Strategies produced by Africa Development Bank (Country Strategy Paper 2008–2011); EC (Country Strategy Paper and Indicative Programme, 2008–2013); UN (UN Development Assistance
Framework 2010–2014); World Bank (Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, 2006–2009; 2008 Country
Assistance Strategy); Austria (Three Year Program on Austrian Development Policy, 2006–2008);
Belgium (Indicative Cooperation Program, 2007–2009, Indicative Cooperation Program, 2010–
2013); France (Framework Partnership Agreement, 2006–2010); Sweden (Strategy to Great Lakes
Region, including Burundi, 2004–2008); and United States (Strategic Statement 2006–2008). See
AfDB 2008; European Commission and Republic of Burundi 2007; Government of Burundi and
UN 2009; Republic of Burundi 2006; World Bank 2008e; Austrian Federal Ministry for European
and International Affairs 2006; Belgium Development Agency 2006, 2009; French Ministry of Foreign Affairs 2006; SIDA 2005; Government of Burundi 2005.
66. A notable exception to the fragmentation of donor assistance strategies is the preparation of a country assistance framework in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Following the 2006 elections, donors confronted the need to begin planning for the post-election period in a fragile and uncertain
political landscape. A joint strategy framework, building on the five pillars identified in the Poverty
Reduction Strategy Program, appealed to the Democratic Republic of Congo’s partners as a way of
mitigating risk while preparing the way for partners to engage in substantive dialogue with the new
government on pre-identified and pre-agreed issues as soon as it was formed. Under an initiative by
the UN Integrated Office in the UN Democratic Republic of Congo peacekeeping mission and the
World Bank, a Country Assistance Framework was developed as a common strategic approach to
recovery and development assistance, and was agreed to by 17 international partners. A challenge
with such joint donor planning, however, is to keep it flexible enough to respond to new challenges,
as subsequently emerged in the Democratic Republic of Congo. See also Rohland and Cliffe 2002;
Republic of Liberia and UN 2007.
67. Ashraf Ghani and Clare Lockhart, in Fixing Failed States, analyze the issue of establishing legitimacy
and closing the sovereignty gap in fragile and conflict-affected states through the lens of “double
compact.” The double compact focuses on the “network of rights and obligations underpinning
the state’s claim to sovereignty . . .” and refers first to the “compact . . . between a state and its citizens . . . embedded in a coherent set of rules,” and second, “between a state and the international
community to ensure adherence to international norms and standards of accountability and transparency” (Ghani and Lockhart 2008, 8).
68. Cox and Thornton 2010.
69. Aga Khan Development Network 2003.
70. Fully consistent with the findings of the many development assessments and studies conducted in
recent years, including Agence Française de Développement and others 2005 and Commission on
Growth and Development 2008.
71. Gowan 2007.
72. These points were made forcefully by ministers of finance from 12 African conflict-affected countries at two post-conflict learning events in 2002 and 2003 (World Bank 2002b, 2003).

211

212

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

73. Kharas 2008.
74. Volatility has costs in all economic activity with expectations, reflected by risk premiums. Losses
associated with volatility can come in the form of additional costs of financial management; the
opportunity costs of idle funds (windfalls) or missed investment opportunities (shortfalls); the
costs associated with over borrowing and debt buildup when there is uncertainty about amount
needed and concessional credits are used; and the costs associated with volatility in fiscal spending
and the real exchange rate that can follow from volatility in aid (Kharas 2008). These costs can be
further amplified by donor “herding” behavior, which is often more responsive to political instability and violence. Additionally, the costs of shortfalls may be higher in fragile and conflict-affected
states. While an aid shortfall in a typical developing country may lead to the costs above, in a fragile
or conflict-affected state, such a shortfall may completely derail transition moments, interrupting
reform and possibly leading to political crises.
75. Birdsall and others 2010.
76. Council for the Development of Cambodia 2010.
77. Killick, Castel-Branco, and Gerster 2005.
78. Some forms do travel well, however. For instance, secret ballots and the separation of women and
children from men in jails support principled outcomes in most situations.
79. Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction 2009, 326. However, the international community has supported many best-fit measures in complex conflict settings (see chapter 5). As further
examples, in 2003–04, while conditions for comprehensive disarmament in Haiti were not in place,
UNDP undertook an innovative project that linked disarmament to a community approach involving information campaigns, support to community conflict-resolution mechanisms, and microprojects benefiting community groups as well as former members of armed gangs. In the West
Bank and Gaza since 2002, the World Bank and several donors have been financing non-salary
recurrent expenditures of the ministries of Health, Education and Higher Education, and Social
Affairs through the Emergency Services Support Program MDTF in response to a deepening fiscal
and economic crisis.
80. See Collier 2007.
81. These attributes include, for example, the quality and experience of the experts (governments
should expect and receive highly competent and committed professionals able to work in difficult
environments); a simple and well thought out program that can be implemented quickly; effective coordination among donors to ensure consistent policy advice; the participation of national
champions to move the process along; and links to specific programs (so that advice and training
reinforces new initiatives) (World Bank 2000).
82. Waldman 2008, 10; Michailof 2007.
83. Institute for State Effectiveness 2007.
84. OECD 2008.
85. National Academy of Public Administration 2006.
86. Civilian surge capacity is typically classified as standing capacity (can be in-country within 72 hours
of need, and remain deployed for a minimum of 60 days); standby capacity (can be in-country
within 60 days, and remain deployed for a minimum of 180 days); and rostered capacity (can be incountry within 180 days, deployment term subject to contract) (see Chandran and others 2009; Sisk
2010; Korski and Gowan 2009). Australia’s International Deployment Group (IDG), for example, is
a standing corps of more than 500 Australian federal police officers trained and ready to deploy on
peacekeeping missions (see Peake and Brown 2010). The U.S. Office of the Coordinator for Reconstruction and Stabilization is building up a civilian standby capacity of interagency personnel.
87. For example, the United States, the United Kingdom, EU, and Australia.
88. UN, forthcoming.
89. See Baird 2010.
90. Of the different forms that South-South cooperation has taken, technical assistance has been the
most common. Although many technical assistance projects focus on economic and social development, countries in the Global South have also developed specialized capacities in post-conflict
peacebuilding. Examples include South Africa’s support to build structural capacities for public
service through peer learning among public sector schools (Management Development Institutes)
at the Ministries for Public Administration in Burundi, Rwanda, and Southern Sudan. Cooperation
among 45 municipalities in El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras helps to manage regional public
goods, such as water, in the Trifinio region. See OECD 2010f.

International support to building confidence and transforming institutions

91. In 2008, the African Development Bank Group (AfDB) established the Fragile States Facility (FSF) to
“effectively assist eligible fragile states to consolidate peace, stabilize economies and lay foundations
for sustainable poverty-reduction and long-term economic growth” (AfDB 2011, 1). The FSF has
three grant pillars: Pillar I, the supplemental support window for funding infrastructure, state capacity building, and accountability; Pillar II, the arrears clearance window; and Pillar III, the technical
assistance and capacity-building window. Eligible states are those that have a harmonized AfDB/
World Bank CPIA rating of less than 3.2, or countries that have had UN or regional peacebuilding,
peacekeeping, or mediation operations over the last three years. Pillar III provides technical assistance and capacities aimed at filling critical gaps in carefully selected public sector domains through
secondment of seasoned professional staff from neighboring countries and on-the-job training
opportunities with the objective of building a sustainable cadre of senior civil servants—fragile
states that have the capacity in management and implementation of reforms. The program is usually implemented as integrated components of comprehensive capacity-building plans. By March
2010, this South-South cooperation facility had received resources in the amount of UA (Units of
Accounts) 85.39 million, equivalent to13.2 percent of the total FSF resources (AfDB 2010, 5).
92. Viva Rio negotiated a peace accord among 14 rival groups, and the homicide rate in Bel Air fell
from 26 per 100,000 in 2006–07 to 17 in 2008–09, lower than in any other major Latin American
city (OECD 2010f).
93. See UNPBSO 2010.
94. OECD 2010f.
95. UN, forthcoming.
96. For instance, nearly a third of the “peace and development advisers” who are jointly deployed by
UNDP and UNDPA to build such capacities in violence-affected countries are either former internal mediators or facilitators from the “Mont Fleur” visioning exercise in South Africa, which was
implemented with discrete UN assistance, or have been trained by them. See UNDP 2010a.
97. Funding provided through the Office of the Transition Initiatives at USAID is one example. This
transition funding is not subject to the same policies and procedures as other financing provided
by USAID. DFID’s Middle East and North Africa Department has created a Program Risk Assessment Matrix that assesses risk factors in conflict programming. The EU is currently developing a
framework for analyzing the risks associated with budget support to fragile states.
98. For Cambodia, see Jones 2009. For Liberia, see World Bank 2010k.
99. International Dialogue on Peacebuilding and Statebuilding 2010, 9.
100. Colletta and Tesfamichael 2003.
101. Colletta and Tesfamichael 2003.
102. World Bank 2007a.
103. World Bank analysis prepared for the 2009 workshop in Kinshasa on aid effectiveness.
104. OECD-DAC 2008.
105. Azam, Devarajan, and O’Connell 2002; Bräutigam 2000.
106. UN, forthcoming.
107. Etzioni 1999. The United States, for example, uses several layers of police agencies, most of them
under local government control, while many European countries favor national police forces with
specialized divisions. The principles underlying security provision can also be quite different in otherwise similar societies: the ubiquitous use of street cameras to track civilians in a number of European cities would be considered invasive in the United States, where history and tradition privilege
individual privacy.
108. Lemay-Hébert 2009; Graydon 2005; Greenfell 2006; Wisler 2005; Vetschera and Damian 2006.
109. UNPOL 2011.
110. For a review of the characteristics of the post-conflict private sector and the ways in which the development community can engage with it, see Mac Sweeney 2008.
111. For instance, the International Finance Corporation (IFC) has worked with Nestlé and ECOM, a
soft commodity trading company, to support small-scale farmers in the coffee sector around the
world (with a mix of investment and advisory interventions) and partnered with Standard Chartered Bank to strengthen practical business skills of small and medium entrepreneurs in Pakistan.
IFC also partnered with the BBC in Afghanistan on a series of radio “edutainment” programs that
combine education with entertainment on issues such as unemployment, lack of infrastructure,
and inadequate service provision and aimed to raise awareness of the benefits of small business
enterprises and provide practical information on small-business-related issues. A recent audience

213

214

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

112.
113.
114.
115.
116.

117.
118.
119.
120.
121.
122.
123.
124.
125.
126.
127.
128.

129.
130.
131.
132.

feedback survey found that listeners are learning, through storylines and the experiences of others,
how to start small businesses and generate income, and that many have acted upon information in
the programs to improve their own financial situation (BBC World Service Trust 2010).
OECD and WTO 2008; Kawai and Takagi 2004; Davies and others 2008; Meidan 2006.
Battle 2008; World Bank 2011b.
OECD-DAC 2007b.
World Bank and AfDB 2010.
Precisely because the budget is a tool for political bargaining, when the government has few resources available to it within a budget, its scope for negotiating inclusive-enough pacts is diminished. Diminished also is its ability to balance the process of building more inclusive institutions,
for which social service delivery is an important tool (see also Ghani, Lockhart, and Carnahan
2005).
See Boyce and Forman 2010; Porter, Andrews, and Wescott 2010.
For a description of the Holst Fund in West Bank and Gaza, see Schiavo-Campo 2003.
Mondo 1995; Colletta, Kostner, and Wiederhofer 1996.
For Angola, please see World Bank 2009c. For Guinea-Bissau, see Arzeni, Cesanelli, and Pes 2004.
Scanteam 2010; Garrasi 2010.
OECD 2010i; Scanteam 2010; Garrasi 2010.
Boyce and Forman 2010.
OECD 2010i; Scanteam 2010; Garrasi 2010.
OECD 2010i.
Garrasi 2010.
See Harbom and Wallensteen 2010.
See Roberts 2010 for a discussion of the Iraq estimates and Butty 2010 for a similar discussion with
Andrew Mack of Human Security Report Project on estimates for the Democratic Republic of
Congo, 1996 to present.
See Conflict and Development Programs in Indonesia website (http://www.conflictand
development.org) for up-to-date information on conflict and violence in Aceh.
One example is monthly monitoring of Palestinian perceptions on political, economic, and social
conditions by Near East Consulting, http://www.neareastconsulting.com.
Scheye and Chigas 2009; Agoglia, Dziedzic, and Sotirin 2008.
DRC Speaks! is a geo-polling project utilizing cell phone technology to conduct surveys. It was created by Mobile Accord in conjunction with the WDR, and with generous donations of SMS by Vodacom Congo. Using SMS through cell phones, the project allowed more than 140,000 Congolese
to share, without any filters, their thoughts, feelings, and concerns.

C

hapter 7 extends the analysis of this Report to international
eﬀorts to deal with the regional and global stresses associated with the risks of violence. Here we encounter a diﬀerent
lacuna: agencies dealing with country-level support have neglected
global stresses, and international agencies tackling global stresses
have paid modest attention to the special characteristics of countries aﬀected by violence. Rectifying this requires a two-pronged
approach: take more decisive steps to tackle global stresses in
their own right, and build into those eﬀorts a conscious eﬀort to
reinforce the capacity of states with weak institutions to build up
buﬀers against global shocks. This approach may often need to be
initiated at the regional level, where states can pool capacities and
share eﬀorts to manage the impacts of global systems. No state or
society is impermeable, and most states’ economies are deeply
interwoven with regional and global economic systems.

CITIZEN
SECURITY,
JUSTICE,
AND JOBS

CHAPTER

EXTERNAL
STRESS

VIOLENCE and
FRAGILITY

7

EXTERNAL SUPPORT
AND INCENTIVES

International action to
mitigate external stresses

E

conomic globalization exposes
states to external economic stresses
ranging from international corruption to resource shortages. States
with weak political institutions are also routinely exposed to a variety of forms of external interference in their internal negotiations.
Social groups within states often have links to
external populations that can be an important
source of support—but also of both political
and security interference. Increasingly, transnational groups with ideological motivations
are forging relationships with internal groups
to pressure the state or introduce violence
into state-society relations.
As with internal stresses, external security and economic stresses are interlinked.
Consider trafficking. Arms traffickers often
move drugs and commodities as well,1 using
similar techniques of fraud, corruption, and
money laundering.2 Trafficking has deeply
damaging effects on national security and
economic systems.
Where buffering institutions are weak,
external stresses can overwhelm internal
governance. Even states with resilient institutions are exposed to international pressures—think of the impact of drug trafficking on cities in Europe and the United States.
These pressures, though serious, have not
undermined the legitimacy or resilience of
domestic institutions or triggered large-scale
violence. But for states with weaker institu-

tions, large changes in the price of oil or food
can increase social tensions, which internal
mechanisms are ill-equipped to deal with.
Because many fragile states have small
populations and small economies, their impact on global markets and systems is slight.
International mechanisms that focus on
global or transnational issues like drug trafficking have tended to neglect impacts on
fragile states. Aid and peacekeeping responses
to fragile states are normally country-specific,
overlooking both the regional dimension of
countries’ economic and security arrangements and the impact of transnational or
global forces. Where transnational or global
mechanisms do interact with fragile states,
the policies often are suitable only for the
larger, more capable states that contribute
the greater part of the global gross domestic
product (GDP), in the process overlooking
the capacity constraints of fragile states.
Furthermore, international systems designed to address transnational issues are
often fragmented and overlapping. For states
with substantial administrative capacities,
fragmentation in international systems is a
nuisance; for states with weak administrative capacities, responding to demands from
a fragmented international system can absorb
all available capacity in dealing with a single
issue area.
Regional cooperation can help national actors navigate internal pressures and build buf-

218

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

fers against external ones. For most states, on
most issues, the region rather than the world
bears the greatest brunt of spillovers from
violence. Regional cooperation thus offers
large potential rewards on issues like the illegal transit of commodities and the expansion of legal, productive opportunities for
trade.

External security stresses
Cross-border insecurity and trafficking, particularly in small arms and drugs, can have
highly corrosive impacts on governance and
the development of stable, legitimate institutions. Nor are the more fragile states and regions able to counter these challenges without
significant amounts of international help: the
resources and manpower available to them
can be simply overwhelmed by these nonstate
actors.

Cross-border insecurity
For many fragile states, the regional dimension of insecurity is central. Chapter 2 shows
how external security stresses can amplify
internal tensions and undermine initial settlements to end conflict. Invasion, the presence of foreign troops, or occupation can
overwhelm the state. Such cases—which include Afghanistan, Iraq, and the West Bank
and Gaza in recent years—consume much of
the debate around fragile states, though their
number today is small.
More commonly, as chapter 1 illustrates,
violence in fragile states now involves nonstate organizations that operate across borders. Porous borders can provide rebels or
organized criminal gangs with escape routes
from national armed forces. In many parts
of the world—South Asia, Southeast Asia,
West Africa, Central Africa, the Horn of Africa, the Middle East, Central America, the
Andean region—states face cross-border attacks by nonstate groups, neighboring state
support for internal rebels, or traffickers and
transnational terrorists.3 Many zones of in-

security and violence are concentrated in
border areas. With many borders drawn in
the colonial era for reasons that had little to
do with settlement patterns, populations on
either side of an insecure border may share
ethnic identities, common cultural norms,
and family and trading links.
Chapter 1 describes how many internal
conflicts are generated or fueled by crossborder or global dynamics. Where the actors
are responsive to a neighboring government,
steps by those neighbors may be vital to a successful transition. Relative stability returned
to eastern Democratic Republic of Congo
(DRC) only after a Rwanda–DRC agreement
was concluded in 2007.4 The Central American “Esquipulas Process,” which ended the
Nicaraguan war in 1987, involved an accord
signed by five Central American presidents
and a change in U.S. policy toward the Sandinista regime.5 Groups of Friends and similar
mechanisms have managed to bring together
neighbors seeking stable internal pacts that
tackle cross-border stresses.6
Even so, international security responses
are typically organized on a national rather
than a subregional level. As chapter 6
points out, international peacekeeping operations are rarely organized to deal with
transborder security threats, even when
the major source of insecurity is a group
that operates subregionally. For example,
the United Nations (UN) has three separate peacekeeping operations deployed in
areas of Africa infiltrated by the Lord’s Resistance Army—but each is mandated and
managed at a national level, and none can
share resources or move across another’s
area of operation. The logic that drives this
is that Security Council and UN member
states are sensitive to national sovereignty;
the irony is that the policy hands a tactical
advantage to groups that ignore sovereign
borders. This vulnerability makes clear the
need for enhanced regional roles and capabilities, a point discussed further in chapter
9. The Multi-Country Demobilization and
Reintegration Program in central Africa is
an exception (box 7.1).

International action to mitigate external stresses

Development programs are also typically
organized at a national level, even though
borders often divide regions with close
socioeconomic ties. As one example, development programming in Pashtun tribal areas that straddle the Afghanistan-Pakistan
border requires the two governments to address similar issues of insecurity, weak local
administrations, and strong ethnic and social identities—but there is relatively little
exchange between national institutions to
discuss lessons learned.7 Of course, international security and development operations are—correctly—designed to reinforce,
not abrogate, national sovereignty. Where
neighbors have tense relations, orchestrating cross-border programs can be politically
complicated.
Some innovative cross-border programs
do exist. Recognizing that insecure borders
have been recurrent hosts to conflict, the
African Union (AU) established the African Union Border Program in 2007 to demarcate sensitive border areas and promote
cross-border cooperation and trade as a conflict prevention tool. The program has four
components. First, it pursues both land and
maritime border demarcation since less than
a quarter of Africa’s borders have been formally marked and agreed upon, and disputes
are likely to continue with future discoveries of oil. Second, it promotes cross-border
cooperation to deal with itinerant criminal
activities. Third, it supports cross-border
peacebuilding programs. Fourth, it consolidates gains in economic integration through
the creation of regional economic networks.
An initial pilot project was launched in the
Sikasso region of Mali and in Bobo Dioualasso in Burkina Faso—bringing together
local, private, and public actors to strengthen
economic cooperation, but the program has
lacked resources. 8
Another example of cross-border programming is a UN interagency initiative that
from 2004 to 2009 supported national efforts
to stabilize Ecuador’s northern border region
with Colombia. Already facing internal social
conflict, Ecuador was confronted with spill-

B OX 7 . 1

The Multi-Country Demobilization and
Reintegration Program: Addressing regional
violence

The Multi-Country Demobilization and Reintegration Program (MDRP) was a
World Bank–led regional initiative in which, between 2002 and 2009, over 40
partners collaborated to disarm, demobilize, and reintegrate close to 300,000
combatants in the Great Lakes Region of Africa. Seven neighboring countries
embroiled in the regional war fought out in the Democratic Republic of Congo
(DRC) participated in the MDRP: Angola, Burundi, Central African Republic, DRC,
Republic of Congo, Rwanda, and Uganda.
This regional program was the best response to a regional conﬂict that transcended borders. Although demobilization, disarmament, and reintegration
(DDR) programs were implemented at the national level, the MDRP’s regional
framework helped build conﬁdence for mutual disarmament by increasing transparency across programs and supporting joint learning and collaborative activities. The regional approach also enabled the pooling of ﬁnancing for DDR, which
in turn promoted eﬃcient resource allocation across participating countries. As a
regional program, the MDRP could support cross-border activities, including the
DDR of irregular forces that needed to be repatriated to their home countries.
For programs like the MDRP that have both national and regional elements,
attention should be paid to regional aspects up front, including putting in place
a dedicated team and resources. Generating collective action for regional activities and establishing incentives for actors to think beyond their country borders
was not easy, particularly since countries faced problems on their home fronts.
Undertaking a large regional multistakeholder initiative like the MDRP was also
inherently a high risk, high reward enterprise.
The World Bank, the donors, and the broader development community must
be prepared to accept the risks, diﬃculties, and uncertainties associated with
implementing such programs in a post-conﬂict setting—especially when
national peace processes and elections dictate the speed of DDR operations.
Source: Correia 2010.

overs from the activities of armed groups in
Colombia, with communities along the border overwhelmed by refugees, gang violence,
and drug trafficking. But by 2009, following cross-border programming, crime and
violence were reduced, services improved,
and dialogue established to resolve local conflicts. More important, despite upswings and
downturns in diplomatic relations between
the two countries, lasting bilateral collaboration has been established with respect to
these issues.9
Regional organizations also play a key role
in addressing cross-border violence. As the
AU example suggests, and as the post–World
War II history of European cooperation demonstrates, regional organizations can help
countries address mobile populations and

219

220

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

Other initiatives, such as the recently released
due diligence guidance on “Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict Affected and High-Risk Areas,” have objectives
that focus not just on tracking flows, but also
on human rights protection and loss of livelihoods.12 Efforts to tackle physical trafficking in commodities are discussed here; those
dealing with the financial dimensions of trafficking are dealt with in the following section
on external economic stresses.
Approaches to tackling the trafficking of
commodities is shaped by their physical and
market characteristics; these determine the
ease of physical tracking and interdiction.
Trafficking in commodities with concentrated production, processing, or wholesaling
is easier to control (table 7.1). This helps explain some of the initial success of the Kimberley Process in dealing with “conflict diamonds” (box 7.2). Timber, unlike gemstones
or point-source resources, has a big footprint,
with many upstream production and processing points, and is easily mixed with legal
wood—requiring detailed systems for verifying the legality of origin, and permits and
expertise to identify restricted species.
In contrast to diamonds, weapons (particularly small arms) are very portable, are
manufactured by many enterprises, are sold
everywhere—and are cheap. Despite a steady
decline in the total dollar value of the arms
trade since the end of the Cold War, there is
no apparent corresponding decline in the in-

the seepage of violence across national borders. They can also spur regional adoption
of global principles. Many of them, however,
need support to operationalize these roles.
Euro region cross-border cooperation and
integration can offer inspiration in tackling
some border area challenges in other regions
(see box 7.1 and the later discussion of regional economic integration).

Trafficking
Internal security—and economic—arrangements can also be undermined by external
trafficking. In February 2010, the UN Security Council noted “the serious threat posed
in some cases by drug trafficking and transnational organized crime to international
security in different regions of the world.”10
Chapter 1 discusses the role trafficking plays
in generating violence in fragile states, particularly when illicit revenues provide nonstate
groups the wherewithal to outbid national
police and armed services.
Over the past 15 years, regional and global
initiatives have been launched to address illegal trafficking. They typically use one of two
types of mechanism to stem activities and
bring perpetrators to justice: either they try
to identify and intercept smuggled commodities at points of production,11 transit, processing, or consumption; or they attempt to
identify and disrupt the financial flows that
both fund and result from illicit trafficking.

TA B L E 7.1

To defeat trafficking in commodities, pay attention to physical and market characteristics of the products

Commodity

Estimated
annual value of
traﬃcking ﬂows

Value-to-weight
ratio/portability

Concentration
of production

Concentration
of processing or
wholesale markets

Ease of tracing
origin of product

Ease of consumer
identiﬁcation

Diamonds

US$127 million13

High

High

High

Depends 14

High

Oil

US$1 billion15

Medium

Medium

High

Yes

Medium

16

17

Timber

US$6 billion

Low

Low

Low

Yes

Low

Arms

US$170 million–
US$320 million18

Medium

Low 19

Low

Limited20

Low

Drugs (cocaine,
heroin)

US$143 billion21

High

Medium

Low

No

Low

Sources: UNODC 2009a, 2010a; Lawson and MacFaul 2010; Small Arms Survey Project 2001; Greene 2001.

International action to mitigate external stresses

ternational transfer of small arms and light
weapons (SALW). The total annual value of
SALW is estimated at between US$4 billion
and US$6 billion, of which approximately
10–20 percent constitutes illicit transactions.22
There are over 900 million small arms in circulation worldwide, produced by more than
1,000 companies dispersed in more than 100
countries.23 SALWs are responsible for almost
500,000 deaths a year, of which 50,000 to
300,000 occur in armed conflicts, most particularly in poor countries.24 While SALWs do
not cause internal conflict, they do multiply
its effects. Beyond massive civilian casualties,
the misuse of SALWs also impacts negatively
on development. The illegal use of SALWs
contributes to human insecurity, crippling
burdens on health care systems, rising criminality, and violation of human rights.25
The focus on arms trafficking in fragile
states has shifted from the international to
the subregional arena.26 The UN Department
of Disarmament Affairs has increased its efforts, in collaboration with major donors,
to pursue subregional trafficking in arms—
including opening regional offices, as in West
Africa. But the country-specific nature of the
UN’s peacekeeping presence restricts the interdiction of weapons flowing across borders.

B OX 7.2

Similarly, the UN’s peacekeeping operation in
southern Lebanon faces mandates and political restrictions to investigating claims of illegal
small and heavy weapons shipments to nonstate armed forces across regional borders.27
Drug trafficking is also increasingly important in fragile states. Heroin, cocaine, and
a variety of recreational drugs are illegal in
almost all countries. Increases in demand in
recent years have driven up prices and created huge profits for the illegal networks
that traffic in them (see box 7.3). Heroin and
cocaine networks—organized on paramilitary
lines, to protect themselves from competitors
and law enforcement agencies—are responsible for high levels of death and mayhem.
Tracking and interdiction of drug traders are fragmented. International efforts to
track and seize illegal drugs are intense, but
given the high value of even small volumes,
these efforts have failed to stop global flows.
Instead, concentrating efforts in one area has
more often simply displaced the trafficking
route. Since transshipment costs, including
the bribery and intimidation of officials en
route, are only a small fraction of what is
earned from trafficking, criminal networks
have overcome or adapted to even the most
sophisticated interdiction systems. Com-

The Kimberley Process for “conflict diamonds”

The Kimberley Process, a certiﬁcation scheme to ensure that the origins of rough diamonds are
sources free of conﬂict, was initiated to stem the ﬂow of ”conﬂict diamonds” used to fuel rebellions in countries like the DRC, and has been jointly undertaken by civil society groups, industry, and governments. It evolved from recommendations by a UN Security Council sanctions
committee that investigated the relationship between commodity traﬃcking and violence in
the DRC. The Kimberly Process diamond certiﬁcation scheme imposes extensive requirements
on its 49 members (representing 75 countries) to ensure that the rough diamonds shipped
have not funded violence.
Although diamonds have high value-to-weight ratios and are very portable, diamond
wholesale markets and processing facilities are concentrated in speciﬁc locations, with the
former primarily in Antwerp and the latter primarily in Mumbai. Some 80 percent of rough diamonds and more than 50 percent of polished stones pass through Antwerp. Only high-value
stones are now polished in New York; most small low-value stones are polished in and around
Mumbai, whose workshops accounted for an estimated 90 percent of the global polished diamond output in 2009. The number of licit diamond producers is also small. All these factors
make it hard to trade conﬂict diamonds without attracting attention.
Sources: Goreaux 2001; Montgomery 2010; Kimberley Process Certiﬁcation Scheme 2009, 2010.

221

222

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

B OX 7 .3

The economics of cocaine trafficking

In 2008, the average kilo of cocaine entered the Mesoamerican transit corridor at a price of
about US$1,000.28 The same kilo could then be sold on the U.S. side of the border for about
US$33,500. These numbers, point estimates based on average market values, can vary widely
depending on market conditions, purity, organization, and vertical integration in cocaine
production and traﬃcking. Still, taking these rough estimates as a starting point, the average
potential proﬁt for moving a kilo of cocaine through the Mesoamerican transit corridor into
the United States is over US$30,000 before other costs of traﬃcking are deducted.
If 10 to 20 percent of the cost is used in transportation, security, and labor, and 20 to 30
percent of cocaine in transit is seized, this would reduce the potential proﬁts from traﬃcking
an individual kilo to between US$15,000 and US$21,000. Even taking these deductions into
account, this proﬁt range is far higher than the annual 2008 GDP per capita of any country in
the region. But in economic terms, the prospective drug traﬃcker must consider two other
potential costs: the opportunity cost of other gainful employment forgone and the risk premium associated with the dangerous and illegal occupation of drug traﬃcking. Recent
increases in interdictions and arrests would also increase these costs.
Source: WDR staﬀ calculations based on Demombynes 2010; UNODC 2010a

pounding this inherent difficulty is the fragmentation of efforts to halt the flow of drugs
(box 7.4).
The majority of efforts against trafficking in drugs have focused on supply—or on
actions by producing and transit countries.
Because drug consumption is illegal in most
countries, only fairly limited mechanisms are
available to reduce the links with violence
through demand-side measures. The poor
record of global attempts to stop the trade in
illegal drugs, and the extreme violence associated with these attempts, have spurred debates on legalization and some tentative steps
to test the proposition (mainly with marijuana, but more broadly with several drugs
in Portugal). Opinions are divided (box 7.5).

Insecurity and injustice: Transnational
ideological threats
Violent transnational ideological movements29 can flourish in violence-affected and
fragile states, making common cause with
local movements and drawing resources
from transnational trafficking routes. The
insertion of transnational ideological movements into otherwise localized violence adds
resources, expertise, and ideological fuel that

can significantly alter the balance of force
and severely pressure the domestic capability to respond.30
This Report is not the place to engage in a
full discussion of the performance of global
or regional approaches to counter-terrorism.
The adoption by the UN General Assembly
last year of a comprehensive strategy for
counter-terrorism provides a starting point
for engagement on the multilateral front, and
governments (through both bilateral and regional mechanisms) are increasing their cooperation on counter-terrorism activities.31
However, global terrorist movements can
feed on the absence of what the Report has
highlighted as critical to building resilience
to violence: institutional accountability, legitimacy, and capability. Ideologically motivated groups may have a particular ability
to penetrate where the presence and reach of
legitimate government are limited (as in the
Sahel and Afghanistan). These global movements often cast their cause in terms of injustice and exclusion32—a message that can resonate with local perceptions of elite-driven
and exclusionary politics and policies. This
raises questions about the balance between
global and local approaches to reducing the
threat from terrorism.

International action to mitigate external stresses

B OX 7.4

Multiple interdiction efforts: Cocaine in the Americas

In the Americas, the cocaine trail begins with on-farm production in only three South American countries
(in 2008, Colombia accounted for 51 percent of global production, Peru 36 percent, and Bolivia 13 percent);33 transits through Central America, Mexico, and the Caribbean; and is sold wholesale and retail in the
United States. A proliferation of initiatives is trying to stem this ﬂow: 10 bilateral or regional programs, with
many countries belonging to more than one program (see map).
This situation raises questions about the coherence of the international response, especially since
increased enforcement in one area often leads to diversion to another. The creation of one Caribbean
initiative was justiﬁed in part because “recent eﬀorts to enhance drug enforcement eﬀorts along the
[U.S.] southwest border seem to be having a consequent eﬀect of moving transit routes back into the
Caribbean.”34

The current (fragmented) state of international cooperation against drugs in the Americas
The map illustrates the fragmented regional focus and overlapping mandates of 10 initiatives related
to drug traﬃcking in the Americas. Each colored line indicates a separate initiative and connects the
member countries involved in the initiative.

The
h Mérida
id
Initiative

US-Mexico High Level
Consultation Group on
Bilateral Cooperation

Permanent Central American Commision for the
Eradication of Production, Trafficking,
Consumption and Illicit Use of Narcotic
and Psychotropic Substances and Related Crimes (CCP)Initiative by Central American Integration System (SICA)

Andean Counterdrug
Initiative (ACI)

Central American Regional
Security Initiative (CARSI)

I
A
rug Abuse
Ab
b
Inter-American
Drug
Control Comission (CICAD)–
Initiative by Organization of
American States (OAS)

The Caribbean Basin
Security Initiative (CBSI)

egio
gi nal Security
tyy System
Sy
Sy t (RSS) Regional
I
tii by
by Organisation
O
i of
o
Initiative
Eastern Caribbean States (OECS)

Plan Colombia

Andean Cooperation Plan for the
Control of Illegal Drugs–Initiative
b Comunida
Co
a Andina
A d (CAN)
by

IBRD 38420 March 2011

Sources: UNODC 2009b; U.S. Oﬃce of National Drug Control Policy 1999; Seelke, Sun Wyler, and Beittel 2011; Central American Integration System 2009; Inter-American Drug Abuse Control Commission 2010; Andean Council of
Foreign Ministers 2001; Embassy of the United States in Mexico 2010.

Research into the interactions between
the local and the international dimensions
of terrorist recruitment and mobilization is
too limited to allow for definitive statements

about the relationship between violence, development, institutional transformation, and
terrorism. What we do know, however, suggests that international development prac-

223

224

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

B OX 7 .5

Expert viewpoints: For and against regulated drug
legalization to reduce violence

The WDR team asked two well-known authorities on the subject to oﬀer their opinions.

Against
Mark A. R. Kleiman, UCLA School of Public Aﬀairs
If the avoidance of failed states were the sole policy goal, the legalization of all drugs would be
transparently desirable: failed states and civil conﬂicts create congenial conditions for illicit
drug-dealing, while illicit drug production weakens states and fuels civil conﬂict, with drug revenues supporting insurgents and other armed nonstate actors and corrupting oﬃcials. However, drug abuse creates problems for drug abusers and for their families, neighbors, and coworkers. Prohibition is not a perfect answer: it can exacerbate those problems, create violence
and corruption around illicit markets (in producer, transit, and consumer countries), and contribute to the problem of mass incarceration. Yet prohibition also tends to reduce drug consumption. Alcohol abuse is far more common, and generates far more intoxicated violence,
than the abuse of any illicit drug. So there is tension between security and governance and the
control of drug abuse: blanket drug legalization would be a blow against terrorism, but would
also increase the prevalence of substance-abuse disorders.
It is sometimes claimed that the full beneﬁts of prohibition in reducing substance abuse
could be achieved through some combination of taxes and regulations, without incurring the
costs of prohibition in terms of violence. But that claim rests on two fallacious beliefs: that
taxes and regulations would not be proﬁtably deﬁed, and that the economic and political muscle of the newly legalized drug industries would not succeed in eating away at the controls
that limit their marketing scope.
Eﬀective taxation and regulation might be technically feasible, with bans on marketing,
restriction of commerce to cooperatives, or delegation of authority to physicians and pharmacists operating under professional strictures. But there is no reason to be conﬁdent that such
systems of eﬀective control would be established or would remain stable.
The current international drug-abuse control regime too rests on twin fallacies: ﬁrst, that
actions in producer countries can greatly restrict drug abuse “downstream,” and, second, that,
since drug production creates security-and-governance problems, any sort of counter–drug
activity naturally helps solve those problems. “Source control” eﬀorts are largely futile, and
source-country counter-narcotics eﬀorts—not only enforcement but also alternative development—naturally exacerbate, rather than ameliorate, security and governance problems. They
do so by raising prices (and thus revenues, since ﬁnal demand is highly inelastic to farm gate
price) and by conferring competitive advantage on traﬃckers with the most guns and the most
inﬂuence: terrorists, insurgents, warlords, armed transnational crime groups, and corrupt oﬃcials. The same is true of “crop substitution” or “alternative development.” In Afghanistan, a
combination of enforcement and development eﬀorts has concentrated poppy growing in
areas under Taliban control, and thus increased the yield to the Taliban from whatever “taxes”
it can collect from poppy farmers and heroin reﬁners.
It is possible to imagine a drug-enforcement eﬀort focused on the intersection between
drug dealing and security-and-governance problems, pursuing traﬃckers and growing regions
that contribute most to instability. But as with taxation and regulation, imagining a better policy is not the same as implementing it.
Reduced source-country enforcement would have minimal impact on the drug problem in
rich consumer countries. Soil in which illicit drug crops can be grown is not a scarce resource,
and shrinking the supply from one producer generally means a corresponding increase in production elsewhere.
Successful demand-reduction eﬀorts both reduce substance abuse and shrink the revenues
of illicit enterprises, including those that threaten the stability of producer-country governments. Forcing drug abusers under criminal-justice supervision for other crimes has much
greater potential to shrink total volumes. We should try to optimize the policies that implement prohibition, developing a drug-control regime that serves the goal of reducing the
extent of substance-abuse disorders and the damage they cause at the minimum cost in terms
of security and governance.

International action to mitigate external stresses

For
Jeﬀrey A. Miron, Department of Economics, Harvard University
Worldwide prohibition of drugs is roughly 100 years old. During that time span, national and
subnational governments have expended enormous sums on police, prosecutors, and prisons
in attempts to enforce it. Advocates of prohibition believe that, despite these costs, the world
has beneﬁted by avoiding a far greater incidence of drug use, addiction, and other negatives.
Thus, according to this perspective, the beneﬁts of prohibition exceed the costs.
In fact, prohibition causes far more deleterious consequences than it prevents. To see why,
consider the consequences of prohibition.
First, prohibition generates violence because it drives markets underground. In legal markets, participants resolve their disputes with advertising and lawsuits, but in underground markets these nonviolent mechanisms are not available, so participants use violence instead. Trafﬁckers engage in turf battles with rival traﬃckers and shoot employees who steal, customers
who do not pay, and suppliers who renege on contracts. Traﬃckers also employ violence
against law enforcement attempts to arrest them, against politicians who support extradition
to the United States, and against civilians who cooperate with the police.
Violence soared in the United States, for example, in response to federal alcohol prohibition
in 1920 but then declined rapidly after repeal. Prohibition also generates corruption. Those
who run afoul of the law have strong incentives for bribery of police, judges, and politicians.
Prohibition contributes to the spread of HIV, hepatitis, and other blood-borne diseases
because it raises drug prices. When drugs are expensive, users face an incentive to inject rather
than consume in less risky ways because injection delivers the biggest bang for the buck. The
impact is not only on drug users but on the broader population.
Prohibition creates a source of ﬁnance for violent groups, including terrorist groups and
rebel organizations. Traﬃckers need protection from law enforcement and the military, so they
hire terrorist groups to provide this enforcement. Terrorists beneﬁt by earning income that
supports their operations. Without this support, terrorist groups like the Taliban in Afghanistan,
the FARC in Colombia, and the Shining Path in Peru would face far greater diﬃculty in funding
their activities. On the ﬂip side, legalization would allow police and the military to devote more
resources to ﬁghting terrorist or insurgent groups than ﬁghting traﬃckers.
All these eﬀects are adverse consequences of prohibition. The only possible justiﬁcation for
prohibition, therefore, is that it might reduce drug use or the harmful side-eﬀects of use.
Yet abundant evidence suggests that prohibition has, at most, a modest impact in reducing
drug use. Repeal of alcohol prohibition produced only about a 20 percent increase in use,
while Portugal’s 2001 decriminalization policy for reasonable personal consumption of drugs
did not cause a measurable increase (indeed, use was lower afterwards). Across countries, use
rates bear little connection to the strictness of the prohibition regime. The Netherlands has a
tolerant policy towards use of marijuana, for example, yet use rates diﬀer little from those in
the United States.
This evidence does not rule out the possibility that use might increase by measurable
amounts under legalization, but assertions that use or addiction would skyrocket are inconsistent with evidence. Societies have the option of legalizing the good but targeting misuse—as
is done for alcohol and other goods that can be used irresponsibly but that most people use
responsibly. Consistency therefore requires the same approach to drugs.
In sum, prohibition has a broad range of harmful eﬀects and, at best, a modest and speculative beneﬁt. Legalization means the harms from drugs fall mainly on those who choose these
risks, many of whom were already doing so under prohibition, rather than on innocent
bystanders and law enforcement institutions. The choice between prohibition and legalization
is therefore clear. Legalization is not a panacea, but it is unquestionably the lesser of the evils.

225

226

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

titioners and diplomats working to support
national coalitions and institutional transformation should pay attention to the potential for excluded groups and neglected
regions to become fertile ground for ideologically driven recruitment into violence—
while international actors working on global
counter-terrorism policy should pay attention to the way local violence and weak institutions can help fuel global movements.

External economic stresses
Fragile states and areas can be exposed to
externally generated stresses of an economic
nature. Prominent among these are corruption driven by outside corporate interests,
illicit financial flows associated with corruption, tax evasion, and trafficking—and both
the price shocks associated with rising global
demands for food and fuel and the pressure
to acquire access to or ownership of essential
natural resources (land, water, and energy).
Again, states with relatively weak governance
systems and bargaining power cannot be expected to address such external stresses without global and regional assistance.

Transnational corruption
As chapter 5 highlights, efforts to counter
corruption are an important and politically
challenging part of national reform processes.
Corruption is often not just a local challenge;
international malefactors are significant in
corruption dynamics and can pose a substantial obstacle to national efforts at transformation. Progress will depend at least in part on
international efforts to address the external
dimension of corruption. The principle that
states should criminalize acts by their own
nationals who corrupt officials of other states
is now firmly entrenched in international law,
although there is much room for improvement in its implementation.
As recently as 2000, many developed nations actually fostered corruption across na-

tional boundaries by allowing their citizens
or companies to take a tax deduction for
bribes paid to officials of other governments.35
Ten years on, the situation has changed
dramatically. The OECD (Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development)
Anti-Bribery Convention (Convention on
Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials) and the UN Convention Against Corruption require that state parties prescribe
criminal sanctions for bribing a foreign public official. This extraordinary turnaround is
particularly important for states with fragile
governance. The bribes paid to officials of
these countries to win mineral concessions,
arms contracts, or other lucrative business
opportunities almost always originate outside their borders—so shutting down transnational bribery is crucial to curbing corruption in these states.
Sanctioning those who corrupt foreign
public officials, however, is still a work in
progress. Transparency International’s 2010
evaluation of the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention found that only seven of the 38 countries party to the convention are actively enforcing the provisions of their domestic laws
to criminalize the bribery of foreign public
officials. Another nine are making some effort to enforce the ban. The remaining 20 are
making little or no effort to do so. Although
this is an improvement from the group’s first
report in 2005, when only four parties had
prosecuted more than one case, Transparency International concludes that “current
levels of enforcement are too low to enable
the convention to succeed.”36
The international community is developing innovative measures to prosecute officials involved in transnational corruption.
Yet even when there is evidence that a public
official in a fragile state has accepted a bribe,
proving the case presents legal, technical, and
logistical challenges that are often beyond the
capacity of investigators and prosecutors in
fragile situations. Where capacity or political
constraints prevent prosecution, authorities
in weaker jurisdictions have exploited the

International action to mitigate external stresses

B OX 7.6

Partnering with client countries to curb corruption in
World Bank–funded projects

The World Bank’s Integrity Vice Presidency investigates allegations of corruption, fraud, coercion, collusion, and attempts to conceal this conduct in World Bank–funded projects. If a complaint is substantiated, a process is begun and can result in barring ﬁrms or individuals from
bidding on Bank-ﬁnanced contracts, with referrals to the appropriate law enforcement authorities for possible criminal prosecution under national law.
Over the past six years, 67 individuals and ﬁrms have been barred from bidding on World
Bank contracts from two years up to indeﬁnitely. The list includes very small ﬁrms and nongovernmental organizations in developing countries to U.K. publisher Macmillan Limited and the
China Road and Bridge Corporation, a large state-owned enterprise. During this period, the
Bank also concluded a settlement agreement with Siemens AG whereby the Siemens Group
agreed to voluntarily refrain from bidding on Bank-ﬁnanced contracts for two years. As part of
its settlement with the Bank, Siemens will commit US$100 million over the next 15 years to
global eﬀorts to ﬁght fraud and corruption. Macmillan and others have agreed to cooperate
with the Bank’s ongoing eﬀorts to combat fraud and corruption in its projects and to implement an anti-corruption compliance program.
The World Bank, the African Development Bank, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development Bank
have agreed to honor each other’s debarments so that in the future, a ﬁrm debarred by one
bank will be ineligible to bid on contracts funded by the other banks.
Since it was established in 2001, the Bank’s Integrity Vice Presidency has referred 112 cases
to national law enforcement agencies. Referrals in 2001–06 resulted in convictions in national
courts in Bolivia, Guinea, Norway, and the United States for receiving a bribe, embezzlement,
or other corruption oﬀenses. More recently, a referral led the Kenyan Anticorruption Commission to open 38 criminal investigations, two of which are being prosecuted. Acting on information from the World Bank, the Norwegian government indicted three former employees of
Norconsult for bribery, and the Palestinian Attorney General’s oﬃce opened an investigation of
a contractor on a World Bank–funded project for fraud.
Source: World Bank 2010h.

laws in other countries to overcome these
hurdles. Under U.K. law, for example, using
the proceeds of corruption to invest in the
U.K. constitutes an offense under anti-money
laundering laws—Nigeria’s Economic and
Financial Crimes Commission has supplied
U.K. authorities with information that enabled prosecutions in the U.K. related to stolen
Nigerian state assets. Haitian and U.S. officials
worked together to convict a senior official
of Haiti’s telecom authority in a U.S. court
for taking bribes from American companies.
Three U.S. nationals have also pled guilty
to offenses in connection with the payments
to the Haitian company.37
As ties between law enforcement authorities in developed and developing states have
grown, authorities have also begun joint investigations with the evidence available for

use in proceedings in both countries. The investigations provide invaluable training opportunities when experienced investigators
from developed countries pair up with counterparts from developing states. Indeed, the
World Bank’s Department of Institutional
Integrity plans to follow this model when it
refers evidence of corruption in a Bank project to national authorities (box 7.6).

Illicit international financial flows
Prosecuting corruption in commodities is
complemented by efforts to interdict the financing flows from these and other corrupt
activities, including drug trafficking. Many
international initiatives are under way in this
area. A large number of laws and programs
aim to identify and stem the laundering of

227

228

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

illicit funds—whether generated by corruption, tax evasion, or drug trafficking—through
the legitimate financial system. This is important for violence prevention: many armed
movements in civil and political conflict are
financed from these sources. The Financial
Action Task Force, established in 1990 to control the flows of drug profits, now has rules
for controlling laundering of illicit funds, and
financial intelligence units combat money
laundering at the national level.38 Such units,
in place in 116 countries, work together under the Egmont Group initiative.39 This expansion in financial intelligence has been paralleled by greater attention from banks and
other financial institutions to monitor and
report on customer transactions—and by increased interest in law enforcement agencies
in following the “money trail.”40
Together, these steps in intelligencegathering, monitoring, and the amassing
of evidence increase the ability of the international community to build strong cases
against organized and transnational crime.
Using the same principle applied in the prosecution of Al Capone for income tax evasion
in 1931, evidence of illicit financial dealings
provides a way to prosecute violent criminals
for “proxy offenses” without having to rely
on witnesses to violence—who can be bribed
or threatened. In August 2009, 70 countries
and dependencies agreed to create a Global
Forum on Transparency and Exchange of
Information for Tax Purposes to reduce tax
evasion through trusts, corporations, and
other devices outside the country levying the
tax. Modeled on the Financial Action Task
Force, the forum will conduct peer reviews
of members and selected nonmembers to
determine whether they have entered at least
12 tax information exchange agreements,
enacted legislation allowing them to comply with requests for information from their
treaty partners, and are in fact providing information when requested.
However, the sheer number of initiatives
poses a challenge. More than 74 global, regional, and multicountry exercises now col-

lect and use information on money laundering, international corruption, trafficking
of specific commodities, and terrorism. Of
these, 30 are focused on money laundering
or corruption, while another 37 deal with
specific commodities (drugs, arms, illicit
minerals, and natural resources).41 In addition, there are numerous national offices: just
four OECD countries have at least 22 offices
between them dealing with these issues.42
The system for identifying money laundering or terrorist financing establishes links
between persons and transactions. The more
detailed the data, the more likely they are to
reveal malfeasance. But tracking and investigating “criteria-based” activities (foreign
exchange transactions, international wire
transfers) multiplies the flow of data to a
financial intelligence unit. To operate well,
these initiatives require sophisticated capacity. The analysis of transnational financial
flows can uncover information for use in
several different jurisdictions, and analysis
in higher capacity environments can thus
be of great use to developing countries (box
7.7). While analytical capability is high in a
few wealthier countries, this is not the case in
most low- and middle-income states.43
Pulling out information to uncover sophisticated networks requires resources and
analytical capacity not found in many units.
Nor are the necessary prosecution and judicial system capabilities always in place.
Effective international action depends on
strong networks and information exchanges
between jurisdictions. Even in the medium
term, it is unlikely that developing states can
build the capacity to operate financial intelligence units at the level required to produce
results. Resources may be better devoted to
stopping the flow of funds to secrecy jurisdictions44 than to controlling the flow out of
fragile states.
Cooperation across borders is not always smooth. To prosecute cases of crossborder money laundering and trafficking,
jurisdictions must share data that may not
affect their own nationals or institutions,

International action to mitigate external stresses

B OX 7.7

The Australian Crime Commission’s high-risk money
movement strategy

Under its ﬁnancial crimes program, the Australian Crime Commission is piloting a risk-based
approach to identifying funds linked to organized crime. This approach to money laundering,
developed with the Australian Transaction Reports and Analysis Center (AUSTRAC), analyzes bulk
ﬁnancial transaction data to identify and monitor “high-risk” money movements (those most
likely to involve illicit funds). To identify these ﬂows and the associated criminal enterprise structures and entities, the commission has developed a methodology to identify unusual and unexpected amounts of money ﬂowing through AUSTRAC and the SWIFT (Society for Worldwide
Interbank Financial Telecommunication) banking system.
This highly selective approach allows investigators to target their resources eﬃciently.
Individuals and groups identiﬁed this way are cross-checked for police records and, if found
suspicious, are further investigated using surveillance, interviews, and, where necessary, coercive
powers. The intelligence enables investigators to follow high-risk transactions into and from
Australia and to identify potential criminal actors at each end of the money chain.
This approach helped identify one Southeast Asian crime syndicate that imported A$129 million of narcotics over ﬁve weeks in 2001. The group is likely to have conducted similar imports
throughout the preceding 12 months, or more than A$1 billion in illicit funds for this syndicate
alone. Another Southeast Asian crime syndicate of four small shops transferred A$300 million in
drug proﬁts overseas over 12 months in 2001.
Sources: Australian Crime Commission 2010; Government of Australia 2010.

and must trust the other jurisdiction not to
leak the data to those implicated. NORAD
(Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation) sponsors an informal network
that brings prosecutors and anti-corruption
agency officials from developed and developing countries together twice a year to share
information and collaborate on cases. Under
the auspices of the Asian Development Bank
and the OECD, anti-corruption officials
in East Asia and the Pacific meet regularly
to discuss common problems. The World
Bank supports the International Corruption
Hunters Alliance and, with the UNODC, the
Stolen Asset Recovery Initiative.
Getting the most from today’s systems
will take perseverance. Despite progress to
date, three problems need attention. The first
is the varying capacity across jurisdictions,
with a disproportionate weight in developed
country organizations. The second is a misalignment of incentives among countries, and
even among institutions within a country. A
third is the imperfect harmonization of vari-

ous international initiatives. In principle, a
more unified global system capable of analyzing financial flows and strengthening country
financial systems would benefit all countries,
particularly if reinforced by stronger justice
systems in conflict-affected countries. A global
commitment of this complexity and magnitude would require significant additional resources and political will at many levels. Nor
should the challenge be underestimated—
even though the number of global jurisdictions that account for the bulk of global transactions is fairly small (see chapter 9).45

Resource stresses
Fragile states are disproportionately susceptible to globally driven resource shocks. Unlike
other low-income countries, fragile states depend heavily on food imports and are vulnerable to globally driven increases in commodity
prices and scarcities in essential resources. The
pressures are mounting as economic growth

229

230

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

BOX 7.8

Growing regional and global approaches to
food insecurity

Eﬀective early warning systems. Multi-agency food security early warning
systems that use satellite data to anticipate crop failures and food shortages
include the Global Information and Early Warning System, which aims to
improve food security response planning in 22 drought-prone African countries—and the Famine Early Warning System Network, which monitors food
supply and demand in all countries, with special emphasis on 80 low-income,
food-deﬁcit nations.
Regional expertise. The Southern African Development Community’s (SADC)
Remote Sense Unit in Harare, Zimbabwe, and the AGRHYMET Regional Center in
Niamey, Niger, are two specialized institutes that provide national and local food
security assessments and help build local capacity in agricultural policy and program development. Recent regional eﬀorts include the creation in 2002 of the
ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) Food Security Information System (AFSIS) by member states plus China, Japan, and the Republic of Korea.
AFSIS aims to improve food security in the region through the systematic collection, analysis, and dissemination of food security–related information.
Regional price stability mechanisms. AFSIS is closely linked to the East Asia
Emergency Rice Reserve Pilot Project, which is building a mutual assistance
mechanism to share rice stocks among the 13 ASEAN and AFSIS countries,
addressing shortages, and helping stabilize prices in the region.
Financial mechanisms. Insurance for agricultural communities may prove eﬀective in countries where conﬂicts over access to and control of natural resources
are heightened in periods of drought, ﬂood, or other climate-driven scarcity.
Index-based insurance relies on objective measurements such as rainfall (too
little, too much), and acts to share risk between farmers and insurance markets.
The schemes have been piloted in instances of crop loss (in Ethiopia) or livestock
mortality (in Mongolia). Although index-based insurance has been implemented
in more than 15 countries, it has yet to be scaled up or become sustainable,
especially in low-income countries.
Sources: Bora and others 2010; Brinkman and Hendrix 2010.

in middle-income countries produces new
middle classes, which are adopting OECD
consumption patterns in food and energy.
Climate change—and the search for adaptive
measures—is likely to amplify them.
As chapter 1 notes, climate change can
multiply natural resource–related pressures
due to its potential effects on food production, water availability, energy demand, and
land-use patterns (such as carbon sinks and
biofuel production). Climate change is already affecting water systems and, in some
areas, the supply of arable land. Climate
change and economic pressures are not separate: wealthier countries also face declining
water supplies and are searching for new

sources of food, water, and land overseas,
often in fragile states.
Food vulnerabilities need priority attention. The share of agriculture in official development assistance declined from a high
of 17 percent in the 1980s to 5 percent in
2006–08, with only 18 percent of this spending (some US$1.2 billion) going to fragile
and conflict-affected states.46 Some regional
and global efforts to address food insecurity
and agricultural productivity are under way
(box 7.8), but much more needs to be done
at the country level to develop agriculture in
those countries.
By contrast, international water treaties
have shown signs of success in reducing the
risks of violence. A shared water resource has
more often stimulated a search for compromise than conflict, with cooperative interactions between riparian states over the last 50
years outnumbering conflicts by more than
two to one.47 The international community has also helped resolve riparian issues
such as water use. But there are qualifiers.
Although many shared water systems have
cooperative frameworks, some 150 do not.
Many feature both high water stress (low per
capita water availability) and fragility in one
or more riparian state. And climate change
may affect regimes based on specific quantities (as opposed to proportions) of a defined
water flow (map 7.1). Based on these circumstances, there are instances where it may
be appropriate to update and refine certain
elements of existing water treaty systems (see
chapter 8).
The global search for energy and food supplies is amplifying pressure on arable land in
developing countries, especially where institutions are weak. Land-based conflict is typically treated as a purely national issue, or at
best a subregional issue, but land use is increasingly subject to external competitive
pressures. Commercial leases or purchases by
foreign governments or foreign government–
backed enterprises can overlap with communal land claims and lead to tensions—
famously so in Madagascar, where such an
arrangement over a large land leasing deal

International action to mitigate external stresses

M A P 7.1

Water availability, fragility, and the potential for riparian conflict
in Africa
Fragile states are not necessarily water stressed. Most have signed international treaties.
Still, some vulnerabilities remain. (Red areas on the map indicate riparian areas that have
water stress and fe w or no treaty components. Those in blue have low or mitigated water
stress).

Water stress (m3/person/yr)
and treaty coverage in
international river basins
Water stress with few
or no treaty components
Low or mitigated stress
Stress not available
Fragile or conflict-affected
states (2006–2010)

IBRD 38421
March 2011

Source: De Stefano and others 2010.

generated popular resentment that, combined with other long-standing tensions,
contributed to unrest and the eventual toppling of the government in early 2009.48
A recent World Bank research effort suggests that foreign investment in land does not
increase with good governance, unlike other
types of foreign investment. On the contrary, foreign investment in land tends to be
greatest in countries with a combination of
weak land governance, abundant land, and
low mechanization. This finding lends support to growing concerns about the ability of
local and national institutions to provide
adequate protection to vulnerable groups
against land acquisition.

Contributing to weak governance in areas of increasing land demand are project
approvals issued without due diligence, rivalries among institutions with overlapping
responsibilities, and insufficient capacity. All
these problems are exacerbated by lack of
transparency. Official records on land acquisition are often incomplete; poor data on
land transfers reduce tenure security and investment, increase the likelihood of conflict,
and make it difficult to collect land taxes and
monitor project progress.49
International attention to land pressures is
fragmented. The UN’s Food and Agriculture
Organization (FAO) examines the impact of
changing food production and consumption

231

232

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

B OX 7 .9

Global approaches to land

In response to a sharp increase in investment involving signiﬁcant use of agricultural land,
water, grassland, and forested areas in developing and emerging countries, the FAO, International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development (UNCTAD), and the World Bank launched a consultative process involving governments, civil society, international organizations, and the private sector to develop voluntary
guidelines for responsible large-scale acquisition of land rights.
The principles are intended to assist in “alleviating hunger and poverty, enhancing the
environment, supporting national and local economic development, and reforming public
administration” by setting priorities for domestic food, shelter, and sustainable development
needs. The draft set of “Principles for Responsible Agricultural Investment that Respects Rights,
Livelihoods and Resources” is as follows:
1. Existing rights to land and associated natural resources are recognized and respected.
2. Investments do not jeopardize food security but rather strengthen it.
3. Processes for accessing land and other resources and then making associated investments are transparent, monitored, and ensure accountability by all stakeholders, within
a proper business, legal, and regulatory environment.
4. All those materially aﬀected are consulted, and agreements from consultations are
recorded and enforced.
5. Investors ensure that projects respect the rule of law, reﬂect industry best practice, are
viable economically, and result in durable shared value.
6. Investments generate desirable social and distributional impacts and do not increase
vulnerability.
7. Environmental impacts due to a project are quantiﬁed and measures taken to encourage
sustainable resource use while minimizing the risk/magnitude of negative impacts and
mitigating them.
The draft guidelines will be available for review by the same parties in 2011.
Source: FAO and others 2010.

patterns on land use; the International Organization for Migration tracks the impact of
changing land patterns on migration; the International Commission on Property Rights
for the Poor has analyzed the implications
for the poorest people of arbitrary or unregulated transfers of land rights. The World
Bank has provided a comprehensive view of
how international pressures affect domestic
land availability and use, and an international
working group has presented draft guidelines
to improve the governance of land and other
natural resources (box 7.9). This exercise
needs to be deepened to ensure that land investment does not deprive local populations
of the means of sustaining themselves.
In international dialogues on food, energy,
and climate, fragile states have weak voices
despite bearing substantial impacts. As with
international dialogues on counter-terrorism,
the impact on fragile areas is often neglected,

and the least developed countries have modest
capacities to contribute. An important exception is the way African states pooled their
diplomatic energies, under Ethiopia’s leadership, in the 2010 Cancún climate change negotiations, contributing to agreement on adaptation funding of US$100 billion a year—a
model worth replicating in other fora.50 Moving forward, international negotiations on climate, energy, and food scarcity issues need to
keep a careful eye on impacts on fragile states.
International donors can also help fragile
states weather volatile external pressures by
investing in social protection programs. That
assistance can take several forms (see chapters 8 and 9). While the systems are global,
many of the buffer mechanisms that warrant
most attention are regional—true not just
for issues related to resources, but more generally for buffering national authorities and
societies against external stresses.

International action to mitigate external stresses

Between the global and the
national: Regional stresses,
regional support
Like all states, fragile states exist in a regional
and global space. The region matters for several reasons. Personal relationships within
subregions are often deep, allowing regional
actors and institutions to exercise moral suasion and create incentives for responsible
leadership. Neighbors are a source of trade,
cooperation, and even of potential shared
administrative capacity. On the negative side,
neighbors can be a source of insecurity and
political interference.
Regional organizations provide an increasingly strong platform for action.51 Since the
end of the Cold War, regional organizations
have become more prominent, in conformity
with the principle of “regional subsidiarity”
articulated in chapter 8 of the UN Charter.52
Chapter 1 of this Report discussed the impressive progress made in combating coups d’état
and abusive military rule in Africa and Latin
America. The African Union’s African Peer
Review Mechanism and the mediatory efforts
of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) show that support in
the neighborhood has advantages.53 Member
states of the African Peer Review Mechanism
participate on a voluntary basis and use this
forum to work toward the aims set out in the
New Partnership for Africa’s Development.
The mechanism assesses and reviews progress toward a set of ambitious governance
indicators, economic growth, and regional
integration.54 The degree of capacity for action does vary between regions: regional security, political, and economic arrangements
are only as strong as the interests they share.
Regional organizations are also combining their comparative advantage in political
leadership with global technical capacity.
In Southeast Asia, for example, ASEAN has
provided political leadership in a number
of international engagements with technical
support from other organizations. In TimorLeste, it provided much of the lead diplomatic and peacekeeping capacity within the

UN peacekeeping mission. In Aceh, Indonesia, ASEAN led a joint monitoring mission
with the European Union, at the Indonesian
Government’s request, to support the peace
agreement. In Myanmar after Cyclone Nargis, the organization helped open access to
humanitarian workers, with support from
the UN, the Asian Development Bank, and
the World Bank.
Regions that have experienced conflict face
a dilemma. Organized criminal groups and
cross-border support to rebels undermine
the potential for cross-border collaboration.
But collaboration and shared administrative
services could create precisely the net gains
in capacity that would allow all participating
states to better handle organized violence.
In Central America, the peace processes explicitly linked neighbors into monitoring
and implementation arrangements, including implementation within their own borders. This not only helped reduce violence—it
laid the foundation for greater subregional
economic integration. Even states that have
had tense relations, or have suffered from
disruption inflicted by groups based in each
other’s territory, can find common interests
in tackling transnational threats and protecting shared resources like water. In the Middle
East, cross-border initiatives to manage water resources have survived turbulence in political and security relations;55 Thailand and
Myanmar have had successful cooperation
on health issues and on trafficking.
The physical, demographic, and economic
characteristics of many fragile states increase
the potential returns to regional cooperation.
Of the 38 states classified by the World Bank
as fragile today, 24 have populations under
10 million, and 13 are either landlocked or
island nations off the main sea lanes. The
economies of many fragile states share structural disadvantages: physical isolation of
the whole or part of the country, combined
with high transport costs to export destination markets, limited internal demand (and
limited economies of scale), weak national
institutions, and scarce trained personnel.
This lack of competitiveness and consequent

233

234

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

REFLECTIONS FROM ADVISORY COUNCIL MEMBERS: 2011 WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT
B OX 7.10

The role of regional institutions and initiatives in norm-setting and violence prevention
ASEAN’s experience in crisis prevention and recovery

Surin Pitsuwan, Secretary-General ASEAN; WDR Advisory Council Member
There are many conﬂicts simmering in the ASEAN landscape. But the region is not totally without its own experiences in mediation and conﬂict resolution. ASEAN has
played an important role in endeavors. The ASEAN Troika in
the Cambodian conﬂict of 1997–99, the Timor-Leste peacekeeping operation of 1999 onward, the Aceh Reconciliation
of 2005, and the Myanmar Cyclone Nargis catastrophe of
May 2008 were cases of mediation and eventual resolution
where the regions and some ASEAN member states have
made valuable contributions and learned lessons from the
process. It has always been like putting pieces of a diplomatic jigsaw together, weaving tapestry of peace, improvising the best modality and pattern from the available and
suitable materials at hand.
One important lesson for us is that our ASEAN structures
can play an important political convening role when there
are sensitivities with member states. There was a higher
level of mutual conﬁdence between Indonesia and the
ASEAN states participating in the Timor-Leste operation. We
got around the rigid principle of “non-interference” by
oﬀering troops under a joint command with an “ASEAN”
military leader taking an active leadership role. And Indonesia made it easier for all ASEAN partners by issuing an invitation to come and assist. In Myanmar, ASEAN played a central
role in the dialogue with the Government after Cyclone
Nargis, helping to open up the aﬀected areas, where over
130,000 men, women, and children had died and many
more faced traumatic conditions, to international aid.

A second lesson is that we can ﬁnd useful combinations of
capacity between our local knowledge and political convening
role, and the technical capacities of other partners. Our work in
support of recovery after Cyclone Narghis was supported by
technical teams from the World Bank, and performed in conjunction with the United Nations. In the Aceh Monitoring Mission, we worked jointly with colleagues from the European
Union who brought valuable technical knowledge.
The third is that the more operations of this type that we
undertake, the more our capacity builds. In Timor-Leste, long
years of joint military training and exercises between the Philippines, Republic of Korea, and Thailand, supported by partners
outside the region such as the United States, paid oﬀ. The troops
on the ground could communicate, cooperate, and conduct
joint operations without any delay—but their experiences in
Timor-Leste also added to their capacity. In Myanmar, ASEAN’s
role meant drawing on personnel from many of our member
states, such as Indonesia, Thailand, and Singapore, who have
extensive experience of managing post-disaster recovery, and
also building capacity within our Secretariat. Linked to long-term
programs of capacity-building with some of our donor partners,
these experiences make us more ready to face new challenges in
the future. The cumulative results of these eﬀorts in managing
political conﬂicts and natural disaster relief have helped ASEAN
in enhancing its capacity to coordinate our development cooperation strategies. We have learned to contain sporadic violence
and tension in the region and would not allow them to derail our
community development eﬀorts aiming at common security
and sustainable prosperity for our people.

low national income is often offset only by
foreign assistance and rents from natural resource extraction. These factors can create an
unhealthy mix of what has been called “enclaved development plus dependency.”56
Remote and insecure areas have little infrastructure—and need more.57 Areas that are
mountainous or have few roads are difficult
for governments to provide basic services or
to police. Isolation tends to result both in divided identity groups and in marginalization.
And there are few economic opportunities:
the average GDP per capita of all landlocked
developing countries is three-fifths that of
their maritime neighbors.58 The 2009 World
Development Report on economic geography

underscored the challenge of distance and
division for development in Sub-Saharan
Africa, and called for spatially blind institutions as the bedrock of integration efforts.59
In many parts of the world, roads and other
infrastructure are absent from the more remote and insecure areas (map 7.2). In the
Pacific, the high transport costs associated
with small-capacity freighters play the same
isolating role as the lack of roads in the Saharan and Sahelian areas of northern Africa and
the mountainous drug-producing regions of
Myanmar.
A lack of economic incentives for infrastructure explains much of the shortage. The
reason for low infrastructure penetration in

235

International action to mitigate external stresses

remote areas is a combination of low economic activity and insecure transit, which
lessen the demand from business interests
and result in low projected returns to such
investments. The returns can be improved
if such investments are part of regional networks. But governments can be reluctant, on
sovereignty grounds, to allow international
or regional investment in troublesome border areas.
Where issues of mistrust can be overcome—say, by involving a neutral third
party or joint organization—shared regional
services have a good track record. The provision of some government services by regional institutions can result in higher quality of services than countries could otherwise
afford—and can build a high-quality cadre
of civil servants. For fragile and conflictaffected states, the regional pooling of services can reinforce rather than undermine
national sovereignty and citizen confidence
in government (box 7.11). This is exemplified in the Caribbean and in Sub-Saharan
Africa, where regional solutions have improved the quality of various public services.
The Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court is a
regional superior court of record for six independent states60 and three British Overseas
Territories.61 Countries under the court rank
high on the World Bank Institute’s 2008 Rule
of Law rating, derived from enterprise, citizen, and expert surveys. The Pacific Islands
Forum’s Pacific Plan for Regional Integration
and Cooperation includes a provision for regional pooling of national services (customs,
health, education, sports).62
Shared administration also has significant
potential. Small and fragile states can benefit
from pooling administrative functions. As
chapter 4 discussed, the poor quality of public services is a serious obstacle to economic
growth and degrades citizen confidence in
government.63 Most countries spend around
12 percent of GDP on government goods and
services, but nonfragile states spend about
twice as much as fragile states do in per capita terms64 (the average low-income fragile or
conflict-affected state spends US$38 per cap-

M A P 7. 2

Sub-Saharan Africa’s regional infrastructure challenge in
fragile states
Regional infrastructure is extremely limited in many of the fragile states in
Africa. This map shows the presence of power plants, power lines, and regional
roads in Sub-Saharan Africa (fragile states shaded pink). Some areas lacking
infrastructure have very low populations to support, but others—such as the
border area between the Central African Republic, Chad, and Sudan—are isolated primarily due to insecurity. This reduces trade across borders and access to
electricity, locking insecure areas out of economic connectivity.

Hydro and thermal
power plants greater
than 100MW
Existing power lines
and paved regional
roads
Planned power lines
and unpaved regional
roads
Fragile states (2011)
IBRD 38422
March 2011

Source: Briceño-Garmendia and Foster 2010.

ita on government goods and services, while
the average low-income non-fragile state
spends US$80) (table 7.2). The poor quality
of public services is a serious obstacle to economic growth, eroding citizen confidence in
governments.65
Forging shared regional arrangements
often benefits from support by third-party
mediation perceived to be neutral. For example, the evolving institutions of the European Union sponsored many arrangements
that fostered cross-regional cooperation at
the national and local level (see box 7.12).
Suspicion between neighbors can be ameliorated by a trusted third party—a role that

236

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

BOX 7.11

Pooling services regionally

In the past three decades, the role of regional organizations as providers of public services has increased in Sub-Saharan Africa and the
eastern Caribbean. Political independence brought self-determination but also meant that services formerly provided through colonial
institutions had to be supplied by ﬂedgling national institutions. Several countries responded by pooling resources regionally and contracting out some public service provision to the newly created regional organizations.
In most cases, the services contracted out were advisory rather than executive. For instance, countries relied on regional organizations for advisory aspects of banking supervision (as with the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank or the Banque des Etats de l’Afrique
Centrale,66 and the Banque Centrale des Etats de l’Afrique de l’Ouest),67 while retaining the role of each country’s sovereign government
in enforcing recommendations. In hindsight, this model worked well when there was a tradition of cooperation in central banking that
predated independence.
By pooling resources, countries have produced higher quality services and better civil servants than would have been possible had
the countries acted separately. The success of this model has encouraged other experiments. The Eastern Caribbean Central Bank, Civil
Aviation Authority, and Supreme Court, regional entities under the Revised Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States Treaty, have been
followed by a joint telecommunications regulator, the Eastern Caribbean Telecommunications Authority, and a joint natural disaster risk
pooling mechanism, the Caribbean Catastrophic Risk Insurance Fund. These organizations have also raised the bar on what the public
and politicians expect for the quality of public services. Similarly, the regional central banks were followed in 1993 by the Organisation
pour l’Harmonisation en Afrique du Droit des Aﬀaires in Central and West Africa, founded to harmonize business law among member
countries and serve as a supranational appeals court on aspects of business law. The West Africa Telecommunications Regulatory Agreement, established in 2002, has pursued the harmonization and integration of the telecommunications market in West Africa.
Although the role of regional organizations as public service providers has not developed to the same extent in the Paciﬁc, due in
part to vast distances and more diverse historical and cultural backgrounds, the University of the South Paciﬁc is an initiative that others
can learn from. Opened in 1968 and supported by 12 Paciﬁc Island countries, it is acknowledged internationally as a credible institution
of higher learning.
Source: Favaro 2008, 2010.

TA B L E 7.2

Shared administration can help fragile and conflict-affected states provide better quality public services
Government expenditure on goods and services
Government
consumption,
% of GDP

US$ per capita

US$ purchasing power
parity per capita

Low income
Fragile and conﬂict-aﬀected states

11

38

131

Non-fragile states

15

80

267

Fragile and conﬂict-aﬀected states

13

247

858

Non-fragile states

13

470

1,296

Lower middle income

Sources: Favaro 2010.
Note: Averages of most recent data available (2001 to 2008) for 88 low- and lower-middle-income countries (data are missing for 11 fragile and conﬂict-aﬀected countries).

the Asian Development Bank has played
with good effect in the Greater Mekong
Subregion.68 Regional organizations have
been encouraging national leaders to explore such arrangements—and seek thirdparty help in managing violence and shepherding transition.

External assistance can help regional
initiatives and regional institutions to realize their full potential in addressing security
and development links. As with Europe’s
early integration (see box 7.12), where regions have the political appetite to explore
sharing administrative capacity or pooling

International action to mitigate external stresses

B OX 7.12

Early European measures to create shared economic interests in peace

The creation of the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC)—the forerunner to the European Union—shows how economic integration can underpin peace and security. The ECSC was formed to create a common market and jointly monitor the production and
use of coal and steel—strategically important goods. The ECSC Treaty was signed in Paris in 1951 and led to the free movement of coal
and steel and free access to sources of production. A common High Authority supervised the market, respect for competition rules,
and price transparency.
The ECSC enabled the lifting of ceilings on coal and steel production in key German industries in the postwar period without
seeming to threaten the security of the country’s neighbors. Lifting these ceilings and generating regional conﬁdence in coal and steel
markets were important, not just for Germany’s economic growth, but also for European economic recovery as a whole. The notion of
cross-border cooperation to spur investment, regulate production, open markets, and build conﬁdence and trust are applicable in
other regions prone to political instability or recovering from conﬂict.
Other forms of European cooperation have also managed to develop productive exchanges across borders and individual regions.
The “Euro region” began as an innovative form of transborder cooperation (between two or more states that share a common bordering region) in the late 1950s. With the purpose of stimulating cross-border economic, sociocultural, and leisure cooperation, the Euroregion model grew, and was boosted through the creation of the European common market and recent democratic transitions. There are
currently more than 100 Euroregions spread across Europe, and the model has in recent times been replicated in eastern and central
European territories. Cooperation has not been without problems in areas previously aﬀected by conﬂict, but there are good examples
of cross-border developmental, social, and security programs that involve areas where ethnic minorities reside across several states or
in areas that have suﬀered the trauma of interstate and civil war in the past.
Sources: Lockhart 2010; Eichengreen 2010; Kelley 2004; Kubicek 2003; Schimmelfennig and Sedelmeier 2002; European Union 1951; Greta and
Lewandowski 2010; Otocan 2010; Council of Europe 1995; Council of Europe and Institute of International Sociology of Gorizia 2003; Bilcik and
others 2000.

functions or services, external assistance to
that process can be invaluable. So far, international aid has tended to support national
rather than regional efforts. Support to regional organizations has grown in recent
years, but it is generally directed as technical
assistance to the organization, rather than
to larger-scale regional delivery programs

(European assistance to African peacekeeping is a significant exception). The potential
for regional arrangements to create buffers
against external threats and to provide a
cost-effective way to enhance institutional
capacity warrants much more attention in
international assistance—an issue discussed
in chapter 9.

237

238

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

FEATURE 7

Central Asia: External pressures and external assistance

Types of violence: Political violence, local intergroup conﬂict, local conﬂicts with transnational ideological connections
Transition moment: Moderate space for change

Key stakeholders: Governments, opposition parties, regional
partners

Key stresses: Legacies of colonial past, transboundary natural
resource management, human rights abuses, real or perceived
discrimination, corruption

Institutional challenges: Lack of political accountability and
inclusion, limited capacity of regional forums and institutions

R

egional cooperation is widely accepted as a process and
instrument for preventing conflict, promoting economic
growth, and facilitating country integration within the region
and with the international community. The most successful
model is the European Union, which evolved over half a century from the original six-nation European Coal and Steel
Community. The Association of Southeast Asian Nations
(ASEAN) and other subregional groups are also often cited as
models to follow for conflict prevention and economic cooperation in Central Asia. But almost 20 years after Kazakhstan,
the Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan emerged as independent states from the former Soviet
Union, there has been little progress in regional cooperation in
Central Asia, and the risk of conflict may be increasing.
Despite their cultural links and shared development experience as part of a large centrally planned economy for most of
the 20th century, the five Central Asian countries have pursued different paths and rates of economic and political transition—partly the outcome of policy choices and partly from
their Soviet legacy. Their different approaches and uneven
natural resource endowments have resulted in increasingly
differentiated outcomes in growth, poverty, and, ultimately,
stability. Moreover, their sometimes conflicting interests—in
transboundary water use and management, for example—influence their attitudes toward, and thus the prospects for, enhanced regional cooperation.

Is regional cooperation important?
Central Asia’s geography, history, and people—as well as its
landlocked position and the integrated energy, transport, and
water infrastructure it inherited from the Soviet Union—together make the five countries unusually interdependent. In
reality, a modicum of day-to-day coordination of transboundary oil and gas pipelines, electricity transmission, and water
distribution is a practical necessity.

Given their economies’ small size, relative isolation, and reliance on exports of primary products, these countries’ regional integration and market development could in principle
help develop clusters of suppliers and complementary public
services, improving all five countries’ access to world markets.
Local community associations and networks developed during Soviet times, based on the contours of economic subregions such as the Fergana Valley—now partitioned by the
borders of three countries—could be revived as the basis for
increased intraregional trade, thus reducing the risk of crossborder conflict.
If regional approaches were adopted and strengthened,
several negative externalities could be tackled more effectively
and efficiently. These include environmental deterioration, of
which the dying Aral Sea is only the most visible example; land
degradation and desertification, which have reduced crop
yields and the availability of arable land; drug transit and trade;
and eventually the impacts of climate change.
Two international studies have estimated that improved regional cooperation could increase Central Asia’s regional GDP
by between 50 and 100 percent—and regional per capita incomes by up to 100 percent—in about 10 years. Lower transport costs would increase trade with large neighbors such as
China, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Russian Federation,
and, indirectly, South Asia. Managing and exploiting transboundary water, irrigated agriculture, and related hydro and
other energy resources would be more cost-effective. And collaborative approaches to regional public goods, such as biodiversity, the environment, and public health, would benefit from
economies of scale—as would enhancing security, managing
natural disasters, and curbing the drug trade.

If so, why is cooperation receding?
The explanation for cooperation not developing, and even receding—less than 20 years after independence—is that each

International action to mitigate external stresses

country’s interest in regional cooperation is different, and
individual nation-building is still under way. Other factors
include
• Diverging approaches to, and different rates of, economic
transition—exemplified most obviously by the contrast between Kazakhstan’s relatively open economy and Uzbekistan’s relatively closed one
• Differing views between the two upstream (the Kyrgyz
Republic and Tajikistan) and three downstream countries
(Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan) over the
management of the region’s two key transboundary water
resources (the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers and their
tributaries) for hydroelectric power generation and irrigation, respectively
• Rival searches for the same extraregional and global markets, often complicated by the competing interests and motivations of the subregion’s principal external actors
• Rekindled cultural, ethnic, and religious identities of the five
titular nationalities—following 70 years of suppression during the Soviet era—coupled with the stresses and strains of
modern nation-building.
Less tangible but still significant are contending claims to regional leadership by the two largest countries (Kazakhstan and
Uzbekistan) and growing instability in the two smallest, most
fragile countries (Tajikistan and the Kyrgyz Republic)—particularly in the Kyrgyz Republic where recent political turmoil and
interethnic violence could destabilize its neighbors. An outcome
of these divergent interests is the dwindling efficacy and influence of the regional forums and institutions, whose managerial
and decision-making capacity remains limited.

Institutional constraints
The only regional institution involving all five countries is the
International Fund for Saving the Aral Sea—a single-purpose
body established in the early 1990s to mobilize financial resources to mitigate the environmental, humanitarian, and social impact of the Aral Sea’s drying up. In addition, the UN has
sponsored three regional groups. The Special Program for the
Economies of Central Asia—a framework for periodic dialogue inspired originally by Kazakhstan—has only very limited resources. The UN Regional Center for Conflict Resolution, based in Ashgabat, promotes regional dialogue, security,
and understanding. And the recently established Central Asia

239

Regional Information and Coordination Center, based in Almaty, Kazakhstan, exchanges intelligence to identify and disrupt drug trafficking networks and strengthens regional criminal justice capacity. The Central Asia Regional Economic
Cooperation program, initiated and funded mainly by the
Asian Development Bank, is a partnership of eight countries
and six multilateral institutions to promote and facilitate regional cooperation in transport, trade facilitation, trade policy,
and energy.

What lessons can be learned?
A 2008 survey of regional cooperation institutions worldwide
suggested five key lessons relevant to Central Asia:
• Effective regional cooperation takes time and effort to develop, requiring incremental, gradual, flexible implementation with visible payoffs.
• It also requires sustained leadership—at the country, institutional, and individual levels.
• The size and membership of regional institutions should be
kept manageable.
• Financial resources and instruments are needed to support
regional investments and cooperation.
• External actors should assist wherever possible.
In addition to these findings, a 2007 World Bank Independent Evaluation Group analysis of regional programs—
including two in Central Asia—listed five design features of
successful programs consistent with these principles: strong
country commitment to regional cooperation; objectives that
match national and regional capacities; clear definition and
coordination of the roles of national and regional institutions;
accountable governance arrangements; and plans for the sustainability of program outcomes.
Central Asia satisfies few, if any, of these criteria. In particular, there is little or no country commitment to regional
cooperation—for the reasons noted earlier—beyond the
minimal bureaucratic and technical coordination needed to
ensure effective functioning of the countries’ integrated infrastructure. Indeed, relations have deteriorated in the last two
years, particularly with tensions strained among some countries over plans to complete two Soviet-era hydropower projects. Some of the countries have agreed to accept the conclusions of externally financed, independent assessments of one
of the project’s economic, environmental, and technical

240

FEATURE 7

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

Central Asia: External pressures and external assistance (continued)

feasibility—apparently signaling their interest in a mutually
acceptable bilateral solution.

From conflict to cooperation
Experience appears to confirm the analysis of at least one Central Asian scholar, Matveeva (2007), who concludes that regional cooperation, however desirable in theory, cannot be
prescribed from outside. The mediation of conflicts inherited
by the five countries, if not their resolution, is a prerequisite
for more broadly based regional cooperation. And regional
cooperation is more likely to evolve in limited well-defined areas of obvious mutual interest or concern.
Another couple of scholars, Linn and Pidufala (2008), view
relations between the five countries as driven mainly by competition and rivalry—for influence, leadership, markets, and
resources—warning, in addition, that this may not be a temporary phenomenon related to nation-building. According to
this view, Central Asia’s regional problems are unlikely to be
resolved in the near term, and the main priority for external
actors should be to reduce the risk that they may worsen and
cause real conflict.

The need for closer cooperation in Central Asia—to prevent conflict and to maintain and reinforce regional stability—may be greater and more urgent than ever, especially in
energy and water, and trade and transport, which have so far
proven intractable. While the outlook for enhanced cooperation may have worsened, this makes renewed focus and coordinated effort by external actors all the more important. In
this context, the Central Asia Regional Economic Cooperation program’s pragmatic emphasis on coordinated countryspecific investments in energy and transport infrastructure
benefiting two or more countries may be a model for other
partners to follow.
If cooperation is indeed more likely to be ad hoc and in narrowly defined areas of common interest or concern—not involving all five countries—a flexible operational framework,
rather than an elaborate regional plan or strategy, is the right
way to shape external actors’ actions. External actors can do
much in convening, mediating, and resolving issues, but without mutual interest and political will in the countries, their role
will be limited.
Sources: Houdart and Pearce 2010; and others described in endnote.69

Notes
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.

For a discussion of these linkages, see for example Naim 2006.
See Baker 2005.
Rubin 2002; Small Arms Survey Project 2005, 2009.
Gambino 2010; U.S. Department of State 2010.
Oliver 1999.
UN “Groups of Friends” began in the post–Cold War period as a mediation tool for countries
attempting to prevent or exit conflict. Friends groups have been operating over the past two
decades, providing a core group of interested states that apply diplomatic persuasion—carrots and
sticks—in promoting peace settlements. Most often these are informal groupings, with a negotiated
and varied rather than rigid mandate based on the country context. See Whitfield 2007.
Patel and Ross 2007; O’Loughlin, Witmer, and Linke 2010.
See African Union 2007a.
UNDP 2010a.
UN Security Council 2010b.
In the case of heroin and cocaine, which are illegal in almost all countries.
See OECD 2010h.
Estimated value of conflict and illicit diamonds. In 2008, conflict diamonds were estimated to
account for 0.1 percent of the total global production of rough diamonds, which stood at US$12.7
billion. See Kimberley Process Certification Scheme 2009, 2010.

International action to mitigate external stresses

14. Gemologists are generally able to identify the origin of diamonds if they receive several parcels of
gems coming from the same area. They have great difficulties in identifying origin once stones from
different areas have been mixed, and they are completely unable to identify the origins of a polished
stone (see Goreaux 2001).
15. This is an estimate for oil trafficked only from Nigeria, where this problem is concentrated, and is
based on an estimated 150,000 barrels per day at a price of US$20 per barrel—a significant discount
over world oil prices to attract large buyers (see UNODC 2009a).
16. Estimated 2008 value of illegally imported wood products (see Lawson and MacFaul 2010, 125).
17. While it is technically feasible to trace the origins of timber (and this indeed has been the focus of a
number of “responsible forestry” initiatives), doing so depends either on tagging at the country of
origin and a secure chain of custody, or on a more complicated DNA analysis.
18. UNODC 2010a, 129.
19. The number of legal manufacturers of small arms is estimated to have increased from fewer than
200 companies in 1980 to more than 600 by 2001. As of 2001, at least 95 countries had the capacity
to undertake the legal production of small arms. See Small Arms Survey Project 2001.
20. Most, but not all, small arms and light weapons are marked at the point of manufacture, for example, with a serial number and manufacturer’s mark that is stamped, etched, or engraved into metallic parts of the weapon. However, where they exist, the marks often contain insufficient information for unique identification and reliable tracing, and there is no centralized record-keeping. See
Greene 2001.
21. UNODC 2010a, 82, 111.
22. Illicit trade in small arms and light weapons takes place in both the black and the gray markets. For
a definition of both markets, see Stohl and Grillot 2009. For information on the SALW, see Small
Arms Survey Project 2006. The estimate of the elicit portion is reported in Marsh 2002.
23. Small Arms Survey Project 2011.
24. See Cukier 2002 and Markowski and others 2009.
25. On the developmental impact of SALW, see Bourne 2007.
26. See Small Arms Survey Project 2009.
27. Ben-Ari 2010; Worsnip 2009; UN Security Council 2009.
28. Demombynes 2010.
29. Although the definition of terrorism is fraught, and the question of which groups should be referred
to as terrorist organizations is contested, 12 UN Conventions that have been adopted by the General Assembly specify tactics that are classified as terrorism.
30. An example of this today is the presence of transnational terrorist organizations affiliated with
Al-Qaeda in the subnational conflicts in Indonesia and the Philippines (see Putzel 2003; Kilcullen
2009; Acharya and Acharya 2007).
31. UN General Assembly 2006.
32. Berman and others 2009; Berman 2009; Berman and Iannaccone 2006.
33. UNODC 2009b, 65.
34. U.S. Office of National Drug Control Policy, 1999, 26.
35. OECD 1996, 2009; Greenberger 1995; Gantz 1998; Hines 1995.
36. Transparency International 2010, 8.
37. Messick 2011. Also see box 8.4 in chapter 8.
38. The Financial Action Task Force (FATF) was established in 1990 by the finance ministers of G-7
countries to combat the problem of illegal narcotics trafficking and money laundering through
strengthened international cooperation. The FATF’s initial mission was to focus on preventing the
use of the banking system and other financial institutions for the purpose of money laundering.
As an initial step and based on an analysis of the existing situation, the FATF developed a series of
recommendations on specific measures, including the adaptation of national legal and regulatory
systems, that would help detect, prevent, and punish misuse of the financial system for money
laundering. Following the terrorist attacks of 9/11, the FATF issued additional guidelines to counter
the terrorist financing. The FATF relies on a unique cooperation network involving more than 180
jurisdictions around the world, including multilateral organizations such as the G-20, UN, World
Bank, and IMF. Additionally, eight FATF-style regional bodies have been created over the years as
part of this network. See Financial Action Task Force 2010.
39. The Egmont Group of Financial Intelligence Units is an informal international gathering of financial intelligence units (FIUs) formed in 1995. FIUs are national centers to collect information on
suspicious or unusual financial activity from the financial industry and other entities or professions
required to report transactions suspected of being money laundering or terrorism financing. FIUs

241

242

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

40.
41.
42.

43.

44.

45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.

51.

52.
53.
54.
55.
56.

are normally not law enforcement agencies; their mission is to analyze the information received. If
sufficient evidence of unlawful activity is found, the matter is passed to the public prosecution. The
goal of the Egmont Group is to provide a forum for FIUs around the world to improve cooperation
in the fight against money laundering and financing of terrorism and to foster the implementation
of domestic programs in this field. Intscher 2010.
Intscher 2010.
WDR team calculations.
Such as the U.S. Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FINCEN), the U.K. Serious Organized
Crime Agency (SOCA), the Australian Transaction Reports and Analysis Center (AUSTRAC), and
the Canadian Financial Transactions and Reports Analysis Center (FINTRAC).
A large proportion of FIUs (about 60–65 percent) receive only Suspicious Transaction Reports,
which meet some test of suspicion, and are by and large domestic transactions, usually of a relatively
modest amount. This is the mandatory minimum reporting requirement of the FATF Recommendations. A substantial minority of FIUs (about 25–30 percent) also receive, or have access to, Large
Cash Transaction Reports, reported solely on the basis of the transaction exceeding a threshold
value specified in law or regulation. A small proportion of FIUs (perhaps 10–15 percent) receive
some Foreign Exchange Transaction Reports, usually those above a specified value threshold. A
quite small proportion of FIUs (maybe 5–8 percent) receive, or have access to, Electronic Funds
Transfer Reports (“wire transfers”), usually above a threshold, mostly for international, but in some
instances also domestic transfers. See Intscher 2010.
Secrecy jurisdictions refer to jurisdictions that facilitate illicit financial flows stemming from three
overlapping sources: bribery, criminal activity, and cross-border trade mispricing. Secrecy jurisdictions undermine development for the poorest countries as individuals taking advantage of these
jurisdictions can commit a wide range of crimes such as tax evasion, nonpayment of alimonies,
money laundering, terrorist financing, drug trafficking, human trafficking, illegal arms trading,
counterfeiting, insider dealing, embezzlement, fleeing of bankruptcy orders, fraud, and others.
One barrier relates to privacy: access to information on wire transfers, for example, means infringing the privacy of the many millions of customers using wire transfers for entirely legal means.
OECD 2010b; Willman 2010.
De Stefano and others 2010.
Cooke and Brown 2010.
World Bank 2010f.
The Green Climate Fund will support projects, programs, policies, and other activities in developing country parties using thematic funding windows. The fund will be governed by the Green Climate Board comprising 24 members, as well as alternate members, with equal number of members
from developing and developed country parties. The assets of the Green Climate Fund shall be
administered by a trustee, and the World Bank was invited to serve as the interim trustee, subject
to a review three years after operationalization of the fund. The Cancún negotiations also decided
that an independent secretariat shall support the operations of the fund. It was also decided that
the Green Climate Fund shall be designed by a Transitional Committee of 40 members, with 15
members from developed country parties and 25 members from developing country parties.
The preeminent example of regional cooperation in the cause of conflict prevention is captured in
the emergence of today’s Europe, after centuries of interstate violence had culminated in the most
destructive war in history. From the Marshall Plan and the Organisation for European Cooperation
through the creation of the European Union and its absorption of former Soviet bloc countries,
this evolving social compact has so far managed to navigate a range of volatile political and social
developments and to bring a degree of political and economic unity that few would have foreseen
65 years ago. The current accession process provides very strong incentives for candidate states
to attain specified governance, security, and human rights standards. Lockhart 2010; Eichengreen
2010; Grimm 2010.
See Wulf and Debiel 2009.
See Shiawl-Kidanekal 2004.
For further information, see NEPAD 2010.
World Bank 2007b; Kramer 2008.
“The cost ‘wedges’ associated with small size, undeveloped human capital and institutions, and
market distance mean there is little scope for exports of manufactured goods or services; national
economic viability in the Pacific is instead vested largely in three external income streams: i) rents

International action to mitigate external stresses

57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
63.
65.
66.
67.
68.

69.

from natural resource extraction; ii) aid and fiscal flows; and iii) remittances from labor exports.”
See World Bank 2009b.
See, for example, Fearon and Laitin 1999, 2003.
Faye and others 2004.
World Bank 2008h.
Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the
Grenadines.
Anguilla, British Virgin Islands, and Montserrat. See Byron and Dakolias 2008.
See Pacific Island Forum Secretariat 2005.
See also La Porta and others 1999; Acemoglu, Johnson, and Robinson 2001; Hall and Jones 1999.
The result holds for both lower- and lower-middle-income countries, both nominally and in purchasing power parity adjusted.
Favaro 2010.
The Banque des États de l’Afrique Centrale (BEAC) serves six countries: Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, and Republic of Congo.
The Banque Centrale des États de l’Afrique de l’Ouest (BCEAO) serves eight states: Benin, Burkina
Faso, Côte d’Ivoire, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo.
The Greater Mekong Subregion (GMS) countries (Cambodia, China, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Myanmar, Thailand, and Vietnam) have implemented a wide-ranging series of regional
projects covering transport, power, telecommunications, environmental management, human
resource development, tourism, trade, private sector investment, and agriculture. These projects
were carried out with the assistance of the Asian Development Bank, which had a track record of
working with each of these countries on a bilateral basis, and was able to offer a platform for dialogue as well as contribute technical knowledge and expertise that helped set consistent standards
acceptable to all. The GMS is recognized as having enhanced cross-border trade while reducing
poverty levels and creating shared interests in economic stability and peace. See World Bank 2006d.
UNDP 2005a; Asian Development Bank 2006; Linn and Pidufala 2008; World Bank 2007c;
Matveeva 2007; Olcott 2010.

243

PART 3

Practical Options
and Recommendations

T

his chapter draws together practical country lessons and
options to prevent organized criminal and political violence
and recover from their eﬀects. The audience is strategic
decision makers in countries grappling with violence or attempting
to prevent it—national reformers in government and civil society, as
well as international representatives in the ﬁeld. As this Report has
emphasized throughout, eﬀorts to build conﬁdence and transform
institutions for citizen security, justice, and jobs need to be adapted
to the local political context in each country, at each transition
moment—and there is a need for humility, since lessons in how to
combat changing patterns of repeated violence are being reﬁned
and expanded on the ground all the time. This chapter, therefore,
lays out basic principles and a toolkit of options emerging from
country lessons and illustrates how these can be adapted to
diﬀerent contexts.

CITIZEN
SECURITY,
JUSTICE,
AND JOBS

CHAPTER

EXTERNAL
STRESS
RE

R
TO
ING

FID
CON
ENCE

TU

I

IO

8

ST

E NC E

UT

IN

E NCE

ST

IT

NG

FID
CON

IN

FID
CON

ST

I

ON

ING

I NG

IN

TI

R
TO

R
TO

TRANSFORMING

TU

VIOLENCE and
FRAGILITY

S

TRANSFORMING

RE

S

TRANSFORMI

RE

S

TI

ON

S

NS

S

EXTERNAL SUPPORT
AND INCENTIVES

Practical country directions
and options
Principles and options, not recipes

T

his Report lays out a different way
of thinking about approaches to
violence prevention and recovery
in fragile situations. It does not
aim to be a “cookbook” that prescribes recipes—every country’s history and political
context differ, and there are no one-size-fitsall solutions. As described earlier, recovering
from fragile situations is not a short, linear
process. Countries go through multiple transitions over a period of at least a generation
before achieving institutional resilience. Because trust is low in high-risk environments,
building confidence and political support
among stakeholders in each round of change
is a prelude to institutional transformation.
Managing these complex dynamics and multiple transitions is the basis of statecraft, and
this chapter draws heavily on lessons from
national reformers and country experiences
in chapters 4 and 5. There is no substitute
for the judicious blend of political judgment,
deep knowledge of actors, innovation, and
tactical calculus that only national reformers
can wield.
The first section presents basic principles
emerging from many different settings where
societies have been able to prevent and recover from episodes of violence and develop
institutional resilience, as well as a framework

for differentiating these principles in country strategies. The second section summarizes practical tools for confidence-building
and gives examples of how these have been
adapted to different country circumstances.
The third section considers insights from program design to link early results with longerterm institution-building, again illustrating
how common tools have been tailored to
country contexts. The last section considers,
more briefly, lessons on addressing external
stresses and marshaling external resources.
Some of the challenges in relation to external
assistance and regional and global stresses are
beyond the capacity of individual states and
donor field representatives to resolve. So this
chapter should be read with chapter 9, which
considers directions for global policy.

Basic principles and countryspecific frameworks for sustained
violence prevention and recovery
Basic principles
The Report’s analysis underlines that institutions and governance, which are important
for development in general, work differently
in fragile situations. Restoring confidence
through inclusion and early, visible results at
the local level is important before undertaking wider institutional reforms. The princi-

248

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

pal tactic national reformers and their partners have used to restore confidence in the
face of recent or rising violence and fragility is to build “inclusive-enough” coalitions.
Coalition-building efforts will sustain success only if they can address the underlying
weaknesses that increase the risks of repeated
cycles of violence—deficits in security, justice, and job creation. Cycles of confidencebuilding and institutional transformation
repeat over time. To galvanize and sustain
this “virtuous circle” in the face of deep challenges of repeated violence and weak institutional capacity, four key principles emerge.
• Inclusion is important to restore confidence, but coalitions need not be “allinclusive.” Inclusive-enough coalitions
work in two ways. At a broad level, they
build national support for change and
by bringing in the relevant international
stakeholders whose support is needed. At
a local level, they work with community
leaders and structures to identify priorities and deliver programs. Inclusiveenough coalitions apply just as much to
criminal violence as to political violence,
through collaboration with community
leaders, business, parliaments, civil society—and with regional neighbors, donors, and investors.
• Some early results are needed to build
citizen confidence and create momentum
for longer-term institutional transformation. When trust is low, people do not believe grand plans for reform will work.
Some early results that demonstrate the
potential for success can generate trust,
restore confidence in the prospects of
collective action, and build momentum
for deeper institutional transformation.
Transforming institutions takes a generation, but political cycles are short—early
results can both meet political imperatives
and generate the incentives for the longerterm project of institution-building.
• It makes sense to first establish the basic
institutional functions that provide citizen security, justice, and jobs (and asso-

ciated services)—and that ensure that
new initiatives do not lose credibility due
to corruption. Progress in these areas,
and coordination among them, are the
foundation for broader change. Other
reforms that require the accrual of greater
social consensus and capacities—political reform, decentralization, deeper economic reform, shifts in social attitudes
toward marginalized groups—are best
addressed systematically over time once
these foundational reforms have made
some progress.
• Don’t let perfection be the enemy of
progress—embrace pragmatic, best-fit
options to address immediate challenges.
In insecure situations, it is generally impossible to achieve technical perfection in
approaches to security, justice, or development. There is a need to be pragmatic,
to address immediate challenges within
political realities, with approaches that
can improve over time. Sometimes these
approaches will have temporary secondbest aspects associated with them. For example, jobs generated may not immediately meet long-term goals for high skills
and wages. Community and traditional
structures may have drawbacks in their
representation of women or youth groups.
Anti-corruption initiatives may have to
focus on major corruption while tolerating financial weaknesses in other areas.

A framework for tailoring countryspecific strategies
Within these general principles, each country
needs to assess its particular circumstances
and find its own path. National reformers will face different types of violence, different combinations of international and
external stresses, different institutional challenges, different stakeholders who need to
be involved to make a difference, and different transition opportunities. Throughout,
this Report has covered some of the most
important variations in country circumstances through a simple assessment (table

Practical country directions and options

TA B L E 8 . 1

Situation-specific challenge and opportunities

Types of violence: Civil, criminal, cross-border, subnational, and/or ideological
Transition opportunity: Opportunities can
be gradual and limited, or can present more
immediate or major space for change.

Key stakeholders: Stakeholder balances include
internal versus external stakeholders, state versus
nonstate stakeholders, low-income versus middlehigh-income stakeholders.

Key stresses: Situations pose diﬀerent mixtures
of internal versus external stresses; high versus low
levels of division between ethnic, social, regional or
religious identity groups.

Institutional challenges: Degrees and mixtures of
capacity, accountability, and inclusion constraints
in state and nonstate institutions aﬀect strategy.

8.1). There are five factors to be considered in
applying a tailored strategy—each, of course,
tempered by political judgment.
First is the transition moment and opportunity for change. Some situations, because of
political, economic, or security factors, offer
greater space for change and a major break
from the past—a peace agreement, a leadership or electoral succession, or even a crisis
that spurs an opportunity for change. Other
situations present more limited space for
change—a sense of mounting problems that
spurs debate, pressure for reform by groups
outside government, or a new governmental
reform plan. The type of strategy advocated
needs to take account of this opening. Is this
a moment to put forward a long-term transformational vision or to make incremental
advances?
Second is the type of stress. In situations
where the internal divisions between ethnic,
religious, social, or geographical groups are
a major factor in the mobilization for violence, strategies need components that address political, economic, or social inclusion.
External stresses such as incursions from
drug trafficking networks or global economic
shocks clearly require working with regional
or global partners.
Third is the type of violent threat. Successful approaches to address political, communal, or criminal violence have commonalities in the underlying institutional deficits
that permit repeated cycles of violence—
and common priorities to develop the institutions to provide citizen security, justice,
and jobs. But the particular mix of different
types of violence does make some difference.

Capacity for formal investigations and prosecutions in the police and civilian justice
institutions is more important, for example,
in situations of organized criminal violence
than in civil war or communal conflicts—
although it is important in both. Ideologically motivated violence may require more
emphasis on security, justice, and social inclusion, since this form of violence appears
to be less motivated by employment or economic considerations.
Fourth is the type of institutional challenges. Where states have fairly strong capacity but inclusion is weak, reform actions
need to draw marginalized groups into decision making and ensure they benefit from
national growth, service delivery, and welfare
improvements. Where lack of accountability
has been a source of tension, strategies need
to focus on responsiveness to citizens and to
act against abuses. Where both capacity and
accountability are weak, it makes sense to
make greater use of state-community, state–
civil society, state–private sector, and stateinternational mechanisms in delivering and
monitoring early reform efforts.
Fifth is the set of stakeholders. National or
subnational political and economic leaders
and current combatants or ex-combatants—
while not among the poorest groups—can
be crucial stakeholders in achieving security
and early results, and they may need to see
benefits from initial reforms if they are to
support them. Where neighboring countries,
international donors, and investors affect the
success of a reform, they need to be brought
into the debates on strategy and the delivery
of early results.

249

250

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

For deeper analysis of each country context, national leaders and their international
partners need tools to assess risks, develop
priorities, and formulate plans for action. National governments can often draw expertise
from their own line ministries or political
parties, as South Africa did in developing its
reconstruction and development program in
1993 and 1994, or as Colombia did in reviewing the strengths and weaknesses of previous
efforts to address violence in the early 2000s.1
Where external actors play critical roles,
national leaders can initiate a joint nationalinternational assessment with help from
regional institutions, the United Nations
(UN), international financial institutions,
or bilateral partners, as in Liberia following the Comprehensive Peace Agreement
of 2003 and in the post-crisis needs assessment in Pakistan in 2009–10. Many good
international assessment tools exist for these
purposes, such as the post-conflict/postcrisis needs assessments developed by the
World Bank, UN, and European Commission. More formal national-international
processes have the advantage of generating
buy-in, as well as possible financial assistance, from international partners, though
they may also set high expectations for immediate financial assistance that need careful
management.
One key lesson on assessments and planning processes is that they have often been
lengthy exercises that have difficulty in later
adapting to new challenges. Recognizing the
analysis of this Report on the repeated nature
of violent threats and the succession of multiple transitions that countries go through to
address them, lighter and more regular assessments of risks and opportunities make sense.
Assessments can also be strengthened by
• considering where the society stands on
the spectra of transition opportunities,
stresses, institutional challenges, and
stakeholders.
• explicitly considering the history of past
efforts and the legacy of earlier episodes of
violence.

• identifying both the early results needed
for stakeholder confidence-building and
the path toward long-term institutional
transformation.
• keeping strategies simple, and being realistic about the number of priorities identified and the timelines, as with the changes
recommended to the joint UN–World
Bank–European Union (EU) post-crisis
needs assessment.
• ensuring that political, security, and development actors at national and international levels have joint ownership of
assessments and strategy exercises. Where
assessments and plans are led by only one
ministry, for example, other ministries
may resist implementation. Equally, for
strategies to bring to bear a range of diplomatic, security, and development assis
tance from external partners, all need to
be consulted in their preparation.

Practical approaches to
confidence-building
Basic tools
When confronted with a rising crisis or transition opportunity, national reformers and
their international partners have a variety of
tools available for confidence-building and
the development of “inclusive-enough” coalitions, based on lessons from a range of country experiences (table 8.2). Key stakeholder
groups whose support has often been sought
in coalition-building (in different combinations according to country circumstances)
include the leaders and populations affected
and targeted by violence; security actors, both
governmental and nongovernmental, combatants; political leaders with influence, both
in ruling and opposition parties; business, and
civil society, whose support may be needed to
undertake reforms; and neighbors and international partners. Including women leaders
and women’s groups has a good track record
in creating continued pressure for change.

Practical country directions and options

TA B L E 8 . 2

Core tools for restoring confidence

Signals: Future policy
and priorities

Signals: Immediate
actions

• Citizen security goals

• Participatory processes

• Key principles and realistic
timelines for addressing
political reform, decentralization, corruption,
basic justice services, and
transitional justice

• Local security, justice, and
development results

• Utilize state, community,
NGO, and international
capacities

• Credible government
appointments

Commitment
mechanisms
• Independence of key
executing agencies

• Risk and priority
assessments

• Independent thirdparty monitoring

• Communicating of costs
of inaction

• Dual-key systems

• Simple plans and
progress measures on
2–3 early results

• International execution of functions

• Transparency of
expenditures

Supporting actions

• Strategic
communication

• Redeployment of
security forces
• Removal of discriminatory
policies

Source: WDR team.
Note: NGO = nongovernmental organization.

To build national and local-level support,
political and policy signals that demonstrate
a break with the past are important. Signals
that help to build political support among
stakeholder groups are particularly effective when they are based on immediate actions rather than only on announcements
of intent.
Signaling through immediate action can
include credible government appointments
(national and local) who can command the
confidence of stakeholder groups. Redeployment of security forces can restore confidence by signaling an increase in civilian
protection—as when Colombia redeployed
military contingents to protect civilian road
transit in 2002–03.2 Similar effects can be
achieved by removing units that have a history of abuse or mistrust with communities.
In some cases, the quick removal of legal
regimes seen as discriminatory or abusive—
apartheid laws, collective punishments, government restrictions on hiring from specific
identity groups—can help restore confidence.
Transparency in budgets and expenditures
can be an important signal of improved governance, as with Timor-Leste’s public budget
debates and reporting systems to parliament
after the renewed violence and instability
of 2006–07.3 Most successful signals require a
mix of security, political, and economic content—with credible resource allocations and

transparency measures, for example, backing
up political and security plans.
Some options for signaling a break with
the past will necessarily constitute announcements of future action rather than immediate action. For example, clear signals on
approaches and timelines for political- and
security-sector reform, decentralization, and
transitional justice have often been part of
confidence-building—drawing lessons, however, on the generational timelines often required to complete the comprehensive institutional reforms described in chapter 3.
Signals on political reform may include
rapid action toward elections or laying out
of a series of preparatory steps—as with the
transitional executive bodies and constitutional reform processes in South Africa, supported by civic education and national and
local action to maintain security during the
political process through the National Peace
Accords. Where elections will take place
quickly, indicating that these are not an end
but a step toward transformation of institutions and democratic practices (as described
in the inputs by Lakhdar Brahimi and Nitin
Desai in chapter 5, box 5.11), is important.
Particular attention is also merited on local
participatory processes—such as a commitment to involve violence-affected communities in identifying priorities and delivering
programs in their areas.4

251

252

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

To generate support of stakeholders in
low-trust environments, special commitment mechanisms to persuade key political and economic stakeholder groups and
citizens that announcements will be carried
through have proved useful. These include
the creation of special independent agencies
to implement programs, as with Indonesia’s
reconstruction agency in Aceh,5 and independent third-party monitoring of commitments. Third parties can be national—as with
independent agencies or local civil society
monitoring—or involve joint national and
international cooperation, as with the Governance and Economic Management Action
Plan in Liberia6 and the Commission against
Impunity in Guatemala.7 They also can simply be international and provide either monitoring or direct execution for a transitional
period, as with United Nations or regional
peacekeeping missions’ electoral monitoring,
or the ASEAN-European Union Aceh Monitoring Mission, which supported implementation of the Aceh peace agreement.8
Several supporting actions can help in
confidence-building and in persuading stakeholders whose support is sought of the benefits of collaboration. In some situations, there
may be great unwillingness in the national
discourse to recognize the potential for an
escalation of violence and the depth of challenges. Where the risks of crisis escalation are
not fully recognized by all national leadership, providing an accurate and compelling
message on the consequences of inaction can
help galvanize momentum for progress.9 For
example, technical analysis can be produced
on the costs of violence and the benefits of
restored security—as for the regional benefits of peace in Afghanistan and for the costs
of crime to business in several countries.10
Economic and social analyses can also show
how rising violence and failing institutions
are causing national or subnational areas to
lag far behind their neighbors in development progress, or how other countries that
have failed to address rising threats have
faced severe and long-lasting development
consequences.

This Report’s analysis also provides some
clear messages from global experience to underpin efforts to persuade stakeholders of the
urgency of action:
• No country or region can afford to ignore
areas where repeated cycles of violence
flourish or citizens are disengaged from
the state.
• Unemployment, corruption, and exclusion increase the risks of violence—and
legitimate institutions and governance
that give everyone a stake in national prosperity are the immune system that protects
from different types of violence.
• Citizen security is a preeminent goal, underpinned by justice and jobs.
• Leaders need to seize opportunities before
violence escalates or recurs.
Strategic communication on the need for
change and for a positive vision for the future is crucial—no one can be persuaded to
support new initiatives if they do not know
they exist, or if their intent and content have
been distorted in reporting. Common lessons on strategic communications include
ensuring that different parts of government
communicate consistently on the vision for
change and specific plans; fostering supportive messages from civil society and international partners; and directing communications to assuage concerns while avoiding
promises that cannot be kept. Traditional
consultation mechanisms and new technologies also offer the potential to mobilize
broader citizen input into debates, as with
the use of traditional community meetings
in West Africa11 or youth activists using social networking tools to mobilize popular
support and oppose violent actions by the
FARC (Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia) in Colombia.12
It helps to produce clear plans and budgets that identify early results as well as the
approach toward longer-term institutionbuilding early on, informed by a sense of
realism in timelines and availability of resources. The key lesson from country experi-

Practical country directions and options

ences is that it is not necessary to generate
early results in every area. Two or three
early results are sufficient in each period
of confidence-building. Once the pursuit
of these results is properly resourced and
achieved, other available capacities (leadership and managerial, technical, and financial)
can be targeted at institutional transformation. Of course, results have to be repeated at
regular intervals and help rather than hinder
longer-term institution-building.13
Early results can take the form of progress
on political and justice, security, or development outcomes and often involve successful
combinations of all three. In South Africa,
transitional mechanisms that ensured broad
participation in political, security, and economic decision-making during the transition played a key role. In Kosovo, highway
security was a crucial early result to support
increased trade, and hence employment.14
In Liberia, basic improvements in security,
electricity, and action against corruption
were crucial in restoring confidence.15 In Afghanistan16 and in the Democratic Republic
of Congo,17 reopening key transit routes for
imports and exports through linked security and development efforts increased supplies in the capitals and lowered producer
prices. In Chile and Argentina, responsible
macroeconomic management, social protection, and initiation of transitional justice
measures helped restore confidence following transitions from military rule.
The choice of early results and how they
are delivered is important because it sets incentives for later institution-building. For
example, if services and public works are
delivered only through national, top-down
programs and social protection only through
international humanitarian aid, communities have few incentives to take responsibility
for violence prevention; neither do national
institutions have incentives to take on the responsibility for protecting all vulnerable citizens. Using partnerships in delivering early
results with civil society, communities, faithbased organizations or the private sector has
two benefits: it expands the range of capac-

ity available to states, and it creates a sense of
broader stakeholder and citizen engagement
in crisis prevention and recovery. For these
reasons, short-term confidence-building and
longer-term efforts to transform institutions
need to be linked.

Differentiating confidence-building
tools to match country circumstances
The particular mix of transition opportunities, stresses, stakeholders, and institutional
challenges makes a difference in selecting
types of confidence-building approaches.
Where political power is contested and opposition groups have the potential to derail
progress, developing collaborative capacities among political parties is crucial. Where
political leadership is uncontested, more
focused approaches to building coalitions
between the ruling party and key stakeholders whose support is needed, such as subnational leaders, civil society, the military, and
business interests, can be inclusive-enough
to create momentum for change. Where the
engagement of external partners—investors,
donors, diplomatic partners, neighboring
countries—can provide additional support
or help manage external stresses, signals
that build their confidence become more
important. (Box 8.1 contrasts the experiences of Colombia and South Africa in initial confidence-building and constructing of
inclusive-enough coalitions.)
Two trade-offs to be decided within each
country context with regard to using inclusion strategies to build confidence are inclusion versus justice for perpetrators of past
abuses and inclusion versus efficiency. With
regard to inclusiveness and justice for groups,
country experiences indicate that groups may
be legitimately excluded from political dialogue where there is an evolving belief among
the population that they have sacrificed their
right to participate due to past abuses, as the
FARC were excluded from political talks in
Colombia. But that exclusion can pose dangers when it is driven by international opposition to engagement by groups that have

253

254

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

BOX 8.1

Confidence-building in South Africa, 1990–94, and Colombia, 2002 onward

Types of violence: Both countries had faced long-standing civil conﬂict and high levels of criminal violence.
Transition opportunity: South Africa faced a more fundamental
transition in the run-up 1994 election and the end of apartheid.
Before its 2002 election, Colombia faced a sense of rising crisis
due to failed peace talks and growing violence, but initially had
less space for major institutional change.

Key stakeholders: In South Africa, key stakeholders for the
two main protagonists, the ruling National Party (NP) and the
African National Congress (ANC), were their own members and
allied constituencies, Inkatha and other smaller parties, security
forces, domestic and international businesses, and neighboring
states. In Colombia, before and during the presidential election,
key stakeholders in setting a new direction were the ruling party,
businesses, the military, and some civil society groups.

Key stresses: South Africa’s stresses were primarily internal:
huge inequities between black and white citizens; ethnic
tensions; high unemployment. Colombia faced high internal
social inequity, but also external stresses from organized crime
networks.

Institutional challenges: Both countries had relatively high
capacity, but low accountability in state institutions, as well as
low social cohesion.

South Africa
In South Africa, inclusive-enough coalition-building in the run-up to the 1994 election meant involving all political parties and civil
society in discussions over the country’s future, although the ANC maintained a hierarchy in which it led decision making among other
ANC Alliance and United Democratic Front members. In Colombia, an inclusive-enough coalition to implement the new government’s
Democratic Security Policy did not include all parties: FARC rebels were automatically excluded since they were not recognized by the
Colombian government as a political organization. The ruling party instead galvanized support from the military; most business organizations; and some civil society groups, who were also instrumental in leading popular protests demanding action on security; as well
as community leaders in violence-aﬀected areas. Business groups were important in supporting the new government’s wealth tax,
which provided an important source of ﬁnance for the Democratic Security Policy.
In both countries, the main protagonists sent signals to demonstrate a break with the past. In South Africa, this involved a move
within the ANC to adopt an inclusive approach to other parties and interests and a move by the National Party from discourse over
group rights to discourse over individual rights—immediate actions such as the ANC’s unilateral suspension of armed struggle and the
National Party’s decision to release Nelson Mandela and unban the ANC, Communist Party, Pan Africanist Congress (PAC), and Azanian
People’s Organisation (AZAPO); and announcements on future policy, such as the creation of provincial governments to provide opportunities for power for the smaller parties, job security for white civil servants, and free maternal and child health care for the broader
population.

Colombia
In Colombia, the use of the word “democratic” in describing security approaches was intended to show that future policy would not
involve the human rights abuses that had been common in the past in Colombia and other Latin American countries. Redeployment of
military forces to protect civilian road transit and budget increases to the military were designed to foster business, military, and popular support. In South Africa, however, announcements about future policy went much further than Colombia in the commitments of
the Reconstruction and Development Program to social and institutional transformation, reﬂecting the political background of the
ANC Alliance as well as the greater space for change at the time of the transition. In both countries, the degree to which these initial
signals have been maintained in the longer term is still a subject of debate, but they were undoubtedly important in mobilizing
support.
Leaders in each country used diﬀerent types of commitment mechanisms to provide guarantees that policy announcements would
not be reversed: broad mechanisms for transitional decision making, constitutional and legal change, and electoral monitoring in
South Africa, reﬂecting more inclusive coalition-building; and narrower mechanisms in Colombia to ensure cooperation between the
military and civilian agencies, such as the creation of a new coordination framework, Centro de Coordinación de Acción Integral (CCAI),
reporting to the President.
Sources: South Africa: WDR consultation with former key negotiators from the ANC Alliance and the National Party in South Africa, 2010; Eades
1999; Piron and Curran 2005; Roque and others 2010. Colombia: Arboleda 2010; Guerrero 1999; Centro de Coordinación de Acción Integral 2010;
WDR team consultations with government oﬃcials, civil society representatives, and security personnel in Colombia, 2010; WDR interview with
former president Álvaro Uribe, 2010.

Practical country directions and options

strong local support. Transitional justice
processes can and often should form part of
a dialogue on new directions, but inclusion
strategies can change over time as it becomes
possible to marginalize consistently abusive
groups, as with the Revolutionary United
Front (RUF) in Sierra Leone.18
With regard to the trade-off between inclusion and efficiency, the main question is
how far to go. Exclusion of groups or regions
from core coalitions has the risk of fostering
resentment and generating pent-up pressure
for later rounds of contestation and violence.
But including everyone risks stretching collaborative decision-making capacity too far.
This tension often takes specific form for
political leaders in broadening appointments
to power through the creation of new senior
posts and expanded participation in decision
making, when these actions may also slow
the delivery of results. For national policy,
political parties and governments have been
clear that there is a hierarchy of decision
making—with many present at the table
presenting views and engaged in action to
implement strategy, but with one body taking final decisions. For local participatory
decision making, the mere fact of engaging
communities is often seen as a positive signal, which merits taking the time necessary
to gain local buy-in.

Program approaches to link early
results to transforming institutions
Basic tools
The way programs are designed must vary
according to country circumstances, but experience suggests a core set of basic program
tools, delivered at scale either nationally or
subnationally, that can be adapted to different country contexts—from low to high income and with different mixes of criminal
and political violence (table 8.3). These are
programs based on the concept of building
a rhythm of repeated successes, linking regular early results for confidence-building with
longer-term institutional transformation.

They are deliberately kept small in number
to reflect country lessons on the priority
areas of citizen security, justice, and jobs.
These basic program tools are designed to be
delivered in combination. Action on security
alone has not had a good track record in
delivering long-term results on the ground.
Nor are economic programs sufficient on
their own to address problems of violence.
Five common insights for program design
can link rapid confidence-building to longerterm institutional transformation.
Insight 1: Multisectoral community empowerment programs are important to
build state-society relations from the bottom up, as well as to deliver development
improvements. Top-down programming
through the state can help build technical
capacity, but may be misaligned with the
process of forging and reforging trust in
state institutions and in state-society relations. Bottom-up program design works
with community structures to identify and
deliver priorities for violence prevention.
The clearest signal is to entrust community
structures with their own funds to identify
and deliver local activities, as with the Afghanistan National Solidarity Program. A
second model, which can be combined with
community block grants, is for state agencies and NGOs working in concert to consult
with community councils on their activities.
Examples are the Latin American multisectoral violence prevention programs, which
combine community policing with access to
local justice and dispute resolution services,
creating a safe physical environment (such as
public trading spaces, transit); employment
and vocational training; civic education; and
social and cultural activities. Activities that
“recognize” community membership can be
an important part of this, through programs
as simple as registering births and life events.
Insight 2: Prioritization of basic security
and justice reform programs has been part
of the core tools countries use to develop
resilience to violence. Community-based

255

256

TA B L E 8 . 3

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

Core tools for transforming institutions

Citizen security

Justice

Jobs and associated services

Foundational reforms and “best-ﬁt” approaches
Security sector reform:
• Designed to deliver citizen security
beneﬁts
• Capacity increases linked to repeated
realistic performance outcomes and
justice functions
• Dismantling of criminal networks
through civilian oversight, vetting, and
budget expenditure transparency
• Use of low-capital systems for rural and
community policing

Justice sector reform:
• Independence and links to security
reforms
• Strengthening of basic caseload
processing
• Extending of justice services, drawing on
traditional/community mechanisms
Phasing anti-corruption measures:
• Demonstration that national resources
can be used for public good before
dismantling rent systems
• Control of capture of rents
• Use of social accountability mechanisms

Multisectoral community empowerment
programs: Combining citizen security, employment, justice, education, and infrastructure.
Employment programs:
• Regulatory simpliﬁcation and infrastructure
recovery for private sector job creation
• Long-term public programs
• Asset expansion
• Value-chain programs
• Informal sector support
• Labor migration
• Women’s economic empowerment
Humanitarian delivery and social protection: With
planned transition from international provision
Macroeconomic policy: Focus on consumer price
volatility and employment

Gradual, systematic programs
• Phased capacity and accountability in
specialized security functions

•
•
•
•

Political and electoral reform
Decentralization
Transitional justice
Comprehensive anti-corruption reforms

• Structural economic reforms such as
privatization
• Education and health reforms
• Inclusion of marginalized groups

Source: WDR team.

programs are important, but they cannot on
their own deliver wider institutional change.
The lessons from security and justice reform
programs are to focus on basic functions
that build trust and performance, such as the
following:

nities exist to reintegrate former security
force members into civilian life. Country
experiences that can provide insights include Argentina, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Chile, El Salvador, Indonesia, Mozambique, Nicaragua, and Sierra Leone.

• Crucial early actions can include strengthening of civilian oversight of the security
forces alongside capacity increases; criminal caseload processing in the courts; adequate basic investigation and arrest procedures in policing; and vetting of budget
and expenditure transparency to dismantle covert or criminal networks across the
security and criminal justice functions.
Budget and expenditure analysis and
strengthening of public finance processes
in these areas form a part of early reforms.
In some situations, tolerating an oversize
security wage bill (as in South Africa’s
early reforms) is necessary until opportu-

• Linking security and justice reform is important. One of the most common weaknesses in country experiences has been
increasing actions to reform security systems without complementary action to
reform justice systems. This causes several
problems. First, increases in arrests by the
security forces not processed by the courts
result in either grievances over prolonged
detention without due process or the release of offenders back into the community, as in the relatively successful police
reforms in Haiti in the 1990s and the
2000s.19 Second, where civilian justice systems are absent in insecure areas, the mili-

Practical country directions and options

tary and police will end up performing
justice and correction functions beyond
their mandate and capacity—and perhaps
result in abuses.
• Security and justice reforms should go beyond paper reforms, and reach into local
communities. Extending access to the formal justice system in underserved areas
can help, as with mobile courts. The capacity of formal justice systems to deal
with local dispute resolution is often limited, however. Blending of formal and informal systems, such as Timor-Leste’s incorporating traditional justice measures
into the formal system;20 community paralegals; and the use of nongovernmental
organization (NGO) capacity to support
access to justice for the poor, as in Nicaragua and Sierra Leone, can help bridge this
divide. 21
Insight 3: Shifting back to basics on job creation goes beyond material benefits by providing a productive role and occupation for
youth. There is still debate over what works
in generating jobs and widening economic
stakes in prosperity—not only in fragile areas but worldwide in the wake of the global
financial crisis. Because there is no consensus
on the exact set of policies that can generate employment—and even less so in environments where insecurity is a constraint
to trade and investment—program design
needs to draw from what is known about
pragmatic interventions that have worked.
The lessons here, drawing from the experiences in chapter 5, include the following:
• The role of jobs in violence prevention
argues for judicious public financing of
employment programs, as in India or Indonesia. To ensure that these are compatible with long-term job creation and
strengthening of social cohesion, it makes
sense to deliver employment programs
through community institutions, ensure
that wages are set to avoid distorting private sector activities and programs, keep
the design simple to match administra-

tive capacity, and complement programs
with vocational training and life skills.22
• Easing the infrastructure constraints to
private sector activity is important for
early results and longer-term laborintensive growth. Trade and transit infrastructure such as roads and ports can
be crucial for private sector activity,
but the number one constraint cited by
businesses in World Bank enterprise
surveys in violent areas is electricity.23
Approaches to restitute electricity capacity may involve programs that are fast,
even while these are technically suboptimal in the early period, as in the experience of Lebanon and Liberia after the
civil war.24
• Regulatory simplification, as in Bosnia
and Herzegovina’s removal of the bureaucratic constraints to business activity, can
gain business confidence.25 Simplification,
rather than the addition of complexity in
business regulation, is crucial to demonstrating fast results and adapting to institutional capacity constraints.
• Investment in the value chain for laborintensive sectors—bringing together producers, traders, and consumers—can support job creation and address links between
different regional, social, or ethnic groups
affected by violence, as in Rwanda’s investments in coffee and Kosovo’s in dairy.26
• Agriculture and informal sector jobs are
often viewed as second best in relation to
the formal sector—but they often offer the
only realistic prospect for large-scale job
creation. Support can include access to finance and training, sympathetic regulation, and basic market and transit infrastructure.
• Asset expansion programs have helped in
some successful transitions from violence—such as land reform in the Republic of Korea and Japan and housing programs in Singapore.27 But they require the
political capital to succeed in redistribution (in the Republic of Korea and Japan

257

258

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

the power of landowning classes had been
considerably weakened) as well as considerable public resources, access to private
finance, and institutional capacity. Smaller
programs that provide transfers to victims of violence, such as Timor-Leste’s
transfers to displaced people, provide a
simpler model of asset expansion.28
• Labor migration agreements also provide
an example of best-fit policies in some
circumstances: all countries would prefer
to generate jobs at home, but where massive youth unemployment exists, managed migration agreements that inform
and protect workers are a good “best-fit”
alternative.29
Insight 4: Involving women in security,
justice, and economic empowerment programs can deliver results and support
longer-term institutional change. While
the pacing of involvement of women in reforms will vary by local context, experience
across regions and forms of violence shows
the value of accelerating the involvement of
women. Given the large number of femaleheaded households in violence-affected communities, women often engage in economic
activities out of necessity. Targeting women’s
economic empowerment can be a core part
of job creation programs, as in Nepal,30 and
may have more lasting effects on women’s
status than national gender action plans. Reforms to increase female staffing and genderspecific services in the security forces and
justice systems, as in Nicaragua, Liberia, and
Sierra Leone, and a number of high-income
police forces facing urban violence have delivered good results.31 Involving women leaders in decision making in community-driven
programs can also shift attitudes toward
gender—but as the Afghanistan example in
chapter 5 shows, this takes time.
Insight 5: Focused anti-corruption initiatives demonstrating that new programs can
be well governed are crucial for credibility.
This does not mean addressing all corruption at once—it is as impossible for develop-

ing countries with high levels of corruption
to eliminate it overnight, as it was for OECD
(Organisation for Economic Co-operation
and Development) societies to do so at earlier stages of their development. Moreover,
deep-rooted patronage systems are a way
of holding together potentially violent situations, however imperfect, so dismantling
them before other, more transparent institutions are embedded to take their place can
increase risk. However, high levels of corruption increase the risks of violence, making
action on corruption important. Two main
mechanisms emerge as realistic early measures to improve controls over corruption in
highly fragile situations:
• The first is to prevent serious corruption
in major new concessions and contracts,
including those for natural resources, by
making processes more transparent and
drawing on private sector audit and inspection capacity.
• The second is to use social accountability mechanisms to monitor the use of
funds—making budgets transparent and
using community and civil society capacity to monitor them, as with the use of local budget transparency in communitydriven programs.

Managing trade-offs: Toward more
systematic reform
The key trade-off in best-fit approaches that
link rapid confidence-building with longerterm institutional transformation is balancing their positive effects with their possible
negative and distortionary effects. An oversized security sector draws resources away
from other productive activities. Services
provided by nongovernment groups or the
private sector can be costly. Publicly funded
employment, if badly designed, can draw
people away from private sector work.
Where best-fit approaches can have some
costs that will exceed benefits once security,
state institutional capacity, and competitive
markets return to normal, it helps to design
a clear but flexible exit strategy. This can in-

Practical country directions and options

volve the move from nongovernment to state
systems, or from informal to formal systems.
Next, mitigate the negative consequences.
For example, labor migration agreements
can be accompanied by information and
protection for workers. And public action
to support employment can be designed to
avoid pressure on private sector recruitment
by keeping wages at self-selecting levels and
using controls on incremental job creation
by employers.
Similar lessons apply to systematic but
more gradual reform (see table 8.3). Marking these areas as “systematic and gradual”
does not mean they are unimportant—they
have played a big role in successful transitions, from devolution in Northern Ireland
to transitional justice and education reform
in South Africa and Germany.32 What they
have in common, however, is that they involve a complex web of institutions and social norms. So, in most situations, systematic
and gradual action appears to work best.

Monitoring results
National reformers and their international
partners in-country need efficient ways to
monitor results from these programs, both to
demonstrate successes and to create a feedback loop on areas that are lagging. The Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) have
been crucial for shifting attention to poverty
and social issues, and remain important longterm goals even in the most fragile situations.
But they move too slowly to act as a feedback
loop for policy-makers—and they do not focus on citizen security, justice, or jobs.
Table 8.4 shows sample indicators for
measuring early results of programmatic interventions. These outcome-oriented measures will vary by country context, but could
include, for example, freedom of movement
along transit routes, electricity coverage, number of businesses registered, and employment
days created. These will not, however, provide
a more systematic picture of risk and progress. Useful complementary indicators would
cover the areas most directly related to citizen
security, justice, and jobs over the short and

longer terms—actual levels of insecurity; employment; access to justice; and differences
in welfare and perceived welfare between ethnic, religious, geographical, and social groups,
as shown in table 8.4. They would also cover
developments in trust, state society relations,
and institutional legitimacy. Governance indicators take time to shift—a useful shortterm measure is polling citizen perceptions
of institutions, as Haiti did to measure early
shifts in the performance of its police.33 Such
polling data are a regular part of government policy information in high-income and
many middle-income countries, but much
less so in the lowest income fragile states,
where, arguably, they would be of most use to
policy-makers.
As with the discussion of early results, it
is important that progress indicators set the
right incentives for later institution-building.
For example, if security forces have targets
set based on the number of rebel combatants
killed or captured or criminals arrested, they
may rely primarily on coercive approaches,
and there would be no incentive to build
longer-term trust with communities. Targets based on citizen security (freedom of
movement and so on), by contrast, create
longer-term incentives for the role of the security forces in underpinning effective statesociety relations. Similarly, if progress on
security, justice, and jobs is monitored only
through indicators of access, there are fewer
incentives for state institutions to work with
communities in violence prevention and pay
attention to citizen confidence that institutions are responsive to their needs. A mix of
indicators that measure citizen perceptions
and security, justice, and employment outcomes to monitor progress can help address
both areas.

Fitting program design to context
The idea of best-fit approaches has been used
throughout the WDR: rather than copying
programs that have been used elsewhere,
adapting their design to local context can
ensure that they will deliver results within
local political dynamics. For example, while

259

260

TA B L E 8 . 4

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

Feasible indicators for results measurement

Indicators

Citizen security

Sample program
indicators:
Outcome-oriented
results

•

(sample associated
program in
parentheses)

•

Freedom of movement
along transit routes
(redeployment of
security forces, focus
on citizen security)
Decline in crime rate
statistics

Justice
•

•

•

Number of additional people
with access to justice services
(e.g., mobile courts, community
paralegals, traditional justice
systems)
Number of cases prosecuted/
backlog (processing of judicial
caseloads)
Transparency of decision making
and meeting of targets (publication
of budgets, expenditures, and
audits)

Jobs and associated services
•

•

•

•

•
•

Short-term
systematic
monitoring of conﬁdence in
institutions

Long-term
systematic
monitoring of
institutional
transformation

•
•

•

Number of violent
deaths
Perception survey data
on trends in security
and trust in security
forces

•

Victim surveys

•

•

•

Perception surveys by groups
(ethnic, geographical, religious,
class) regarding whether their
welfare is increasing over time and
in relation to others
Perception survey data regarding
trust in national institutions, justice
sector; and on corruption, nationally
and by region and group

•

Household survey data on vertical
and horizontal inequalities and
access to justice services
Governance indicators refocused
on degree of progress within
historically realistic time frames

•

•

Coverage and representation in state and
community decision-making mechanisms
(multisectoral community programs)
Number of employment days and small
infrastructure or income-generating projects
produced (employment programs)
Number of businesses registered and
operating, including large, labor-intensive
businesses resuming operations in insecure
areas (security, regulatory simpliﬁcation,
infrastructure bottlenecks)
Percentage of vulnerable groups reached
with services and transfers through national
institutions (community social protection,
humanitarian aid, vaccination)
Electricity coverage/number of hours of
blackouts
Reduction in level/volatility of consumer
prices (macropolicy and/or infrastructure
bottlenecks)
Perceptions of whether employment
opportunities are increasing
Business conﬁdence surveys

Household data on employment and labor
force participation

Source: WDR team.

multisectoral community approaches can
be effective in contexts as different as Côte
d’Ivoire, Guatemala, and Northern Ireland,
specific stresses in Côte d’Ivoire and Northern Ireland linked to geographical or religious divides makes it imperative for
program designs to ensure that activities are
seen not as targeted to one ethnic or religious
group and instead build bonds between
groups. Box 8.2 shows how the core tool
of multisectoral state-community programs
has been adapted to different contexts.
Different types of stresses and institutional
challenges make a difference. Box 8.3 shows
an example of anti-corruption approaches in

Liberia and Mozambique, which both drew
on nongovernmental capacities to monitor
key functions. In Liberia, a history of funds
corrupted from natural resource extraction
sources, as well as concern over the risk of diversion of public funds following the Comprehensive Peace Agreement in 2003, argued
for the use of intensive state–private sector
and state-international partnerships to prevent a recurrence of corruption-fueled violence. In Mozambique, corruption had been
less of a divisive issue during the conflict, but
increases in trade linked to reconstruction
programs created new risks, for example, in
customs functions.

Practical country directions and options

B OX 8.2

Adapting community-level program design to country context: Afghanistan, Burundi,
Cambodia, Colombia, Indonesia, Nepal, and Rwanda

The basic elements of community-based programs for violence prevention and recovery are simple and can be adapted to a
broad range of country contexts. All community programs under state auspices consist, essentially, of a community decisionmaking mechanism to decide on priorities and the provision of funds and technical help to implement them. Within this model
there is a great deal of variance that can be adapted to diﬀerent types of stresses and institutional capacities, as well as to diﬀerent opportunities for transition. Three important sources of variance are in how community decision-making is done, who controls the funds, and where programs sit within government.
Diﬀerent stresses and institutional capacities and accountability aﬀect community decision-making. In many violent areas,
preexisting community councils are either destroyed or were already discredited. A critical ﬁrst step is to reestablish credible participatory forms of representation. In Burundi, for example, a local NGO organized elections for representative community development committees in the participating communes that cut across ethnic divides. Similarly, Afghanistan’s National Solidarity Program began with village-wide elections for a community development council. But Indonesia’s programs for the conﬂict-aﬀected
areas of Aceh, Kalimantan, Maluku, and Sulawesi did not include holding new community elections. Community councils were
largely intact, and national laws already provided for local, democratic village elections. Indonesia also experimented with separating grants to Muslim and Christian villages to minimize intercommunal tensions, but eventually used common funds and
councils to bridge divides between these communities.
Diﬀerent institutional challenges also aﬀect who manages the funds. Programs must weigh the trade-oﬀs between a ﬁrst
objective of building trust with the risks of money going missing and the elite capture of resources. Diﬀerent approaches to program design to ﬁt context include the following:
•

In Indonesia, where local capacity was fairly strong, subdistrict councils established ﬁnancial management units that are
routinely audited but have full responsibility for all aspects of ﬁnancial performance.

•

In Burundi, lack of progress in overall decentralization and diﬃculties in monitoring funds through community structures
meant that responsibility for managing the funds remained with the NGO partners. In Rwanda, by contrast, greater space for
change after the genocide meant the councils could from the start be integrated into the government’s decentralization
plans.

•

In Afghanistan’s National Solidarity Program, NGOs also took on the initial responsibility for managing the funds while councils were trained in bookkeeping, but within a year, block grants were being transferred directly to the councils.

•

In Colombia, where the primary institutional challenges were to bring the state closer to communities and overcome distrust
between security and civilian government agencies, funds are held by individual government ministries, but approvals for
activities are made by multisectoral teams in consultation with communities.

•

In Nepal, community programs show the full range of design options, with some programs giving primary responsibility for
fund oversight to partner NGOs, to their large-scale village school program, where community school committees are the
legal owners of school facilities and can use government funds to hire and train their staﬀ.

•

In Cambodia’s Seila program, councils were launched under UNDP (United Nations Development Programme) auspices and
then moved into the government’s newly formed commune structure.

The type of transition moment and governance environment also aﬀects how community decision-making structures align
with the formal government administration. Many countries emerging from conﬂict will also be undergoing major constitutional
and administrative reforms, just as the early-response community programs are being launched. There may be tensions between
national and local governance and power-holders at the center and the community. In Afghanistan, where center-periphery
issues are a key driver of conﬂict, and where warlords are a continuing threat to stability, community-driven development (CDD)
programs must be sensitive to national-local dynamics. Afghanistan’s Community Development Councils, though constituted
under a 2007 vice presidential bylaw, are still under review for formal integration into the national administrative structure.
In other settings of either prolonged crisis or in authoritarian systems, CDD programs can be designed to sustain human capital and oﬀer an avenue for local-level debate in the absence of national-level progress. CDD programs designed in environments
with more limited space for change may rely more heavily on nongovernmental delivery of services, employing local workers for
skill building and focusing on “neutral,” nonpolitical issues in community debates.
Source: Guggenheim 2011.

261

262

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

B OX 8 .3

Anti-corruption approaches in Liberia and Mozambique

Types of violence: Both countries had faced long-standing civil war.
Transition opportunity: Both countries went
through major transitions: peace agreements
followed by electoral transitions.

Key stakeholders: Government, opposition
parties, civil society, and donors were important
stakeholders relating to corruption issues in both
countries: regional institutions played a higherstake role in Liberia than in Mozambique on
corruption-related issues.

Key stresses: Corruption under the transitional
government in Liberia between 2002 and 2004
reached extremely high proportions, threatening
progress in the peace agreement by denuding the
country’s large natural resources and potentially
ﬁnancing renewed electoral violence. Increasing
trade in Mozambique created the potential for
increased customs revenue—but also increased
vulnerability to corruption. High unemployment
and a legacy of regional and ethnic tensions were
issues in both countries—with a commensurate
need to attract investors and donor funds to
supplement public ﬁnances.

Institutional challenges: Both countries had lowcapacity state institutions and low state revenues,
with accountability problems greater in Liberia than
in Mozambique.

Both countries outsourced some key functions to the private sector and undertook additional monitoring
to guard against corruption and increase revenues. The functions chosen and the nature of external monitoring were diﬀerent, however. Liberia focused on forestry inspections and natural resource concessions,
reﬂecting the role of natural resource revenues in ﬁnancing violence, while Mozambique focused on customs as a source of additional revenue that was vulnerable to corruption.
Liberia undertook, through the Governance and Economic Management Assistance Program, “dual
key” oversight by regional and international experts of major contracts and concessions. The African Union
and ECOWAS (Economic Community of West African States) were instrumental in reaching agreement on
this arrangement, along with the international ﬁnancial institutions, the UN, the United States, and the
European Union, in recognition of the potential regional spillover eﬀects of rising corruption. In its initial
stages, this arrangement focused more on accountability than capacity transfer, reﬂecting the severe
nature of corruption challenges at the time. More recently, the program has emphasized capacity transfer
more strongly. Following the elections, the new government also contracted a private inspection company
to build and operate a system to track all timber from the point of harvest through transport to sale. The
system ensures the government collects all revenue because it will not issue an export permit until the
Central Bank conﬁrms that all taxes have been paid. In Mozambique, the government contracted a private
company to run customs inspection functions and collect customs revenues. Both strategies delivered
results, with domestic revenues rising and increased donor funds.
Sources: Giovine and others 2010; Dwan and Bailey 2006; Jahr 2010; Government of the Republic of Liberia Executive Mansion 2009; Hubbard 2005; Mosse 2007; De Wulf and Sokol 2004; Crown Agents 2007.

External factors: Reducing external
stresses and mobilizing external
support
Societies do not have the luxury of transforming their institutions in isolation—they
need at the same time to mobilize external
support for change and to manage external
pressures, whether from economic shocks or

from trafficking and international corruption. Many of these constraints on external
assistance and the management of external stresses are beyond the control of each
nation-state to address. Chapter 9 considers
possible directions for international policy in
these issues. National leaders and their international partners at a country level can, however, help to mobilize external support and

Practical country directions and options

galvanize cooperation programs to address
shared stresses with external partners.

Factoring in external stresses
National development strategies rarely involve an assessment of potential external
stresses or collaborative action with others to
address them—yet action on external stresses
may be key to effective violence prevention.
Regular assessment of risks and opportunities, as described earlier should also include
considering and planning for possible external
stresses. One example is the potential security
impacts of economic stresses, such as volatile
food prices. Another is increased insecurity of
neighbors—how to mitigate, for example, the
economic spillover of Somalia piracy on the
neighboring economies and fishing industries.34 Still others include, ironically, considering the impact of a successful action against
trafficking or rebel groups on neighboring
countries—for example, whether these actions will push insecurity over borders, as
Colombia’s dismantling of drug cartels did
for Central America and Mexico.
Actions to address external stresses can be
taken in security, justice, and developmental areas (table 8.5). Some of the actions to
address potential external stresses and opportunities fall in the purely diplomatic and
security sphere. (This Report does not attempt to address these in detail, but it is clear
that they can be crucial for confidencebuilding with external stakeholders.) Border cooperation, redeployment of troops to
signal non-interference or engagement in
shared security approaches, or simple dip-

TA B L E 8 . 5

lomatic signals, such as the visit of Sheikh
Sharif of Somalia to the Government of
Ethiopia in March 2010 immediately after
his nomination as president or Timor-Leste’s
outreach to the Government of Indonesia,
can all form an important part of the basic
tools for restoration of confidence.
Cross-border programs to link security
and development approaches can be initiated by national governments. An openness
to discussing both security and development
cooperation across insecure border regions,
based on shared goals of citizen security,
justice, and jobs, has the potential to deliver
results. Cooperation between China’s southeastern provinces and neighboring ASEAN
states under the Greater Mekong Subregion
initiative, while still with potential for expansion, has addressed some of these issues.35
EU member states have a range of models
to address cross-border cooperation: while
some may be appropriate only for advanced
economic and institutional environments,
many involve subregions that were historically
underdeveloped and driven by conflict, either
after World War II or more recently after the
Balkan War.36 Lessons from cross-border cooperation in Europe appear to include the
need to start with economic and social issues
(including pooled administrative capacity
in universities), as well as shared actions on
border security and trafficking—while avoiding actions that can cause political or cultural
tensions, particularly those involving ethnic
groups residing across borders.
A promising form of bilateral cooperation to address external stresses further afield
is to address the complex web of corruption

Core tools—National action to address external stresses

Citizen security
• Border cooperation
• Military, police, and
ﬁnancial intelligence

Justice

Jobs and associated services

• Coordination of supply and
demand-side responses

• Pooled supplementary
administrative capacity

• Joint investigations and
prosecutions across jurisdictions

• Cross-border development
programming

• Building of links between formal
and informal systems

• Social protection to mitigate
global economic stresses

263

264

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

B OX 8 .4

Bilateral cooperation against corruption and money
laundering in Haiti and Nigeria

Key stresses: In both countries, corruption with international money-laundering links has
undermined the capacity of national institutions to combat violence.
Key stakeholders: Government, opposition parties, civil society, and donors were important
stakeholders relating to corruption issues in Haiti, with the Unites States playing a particularly
important role. Donors were less important in Nigeria, but civil society was much stronger
than in Haiti.
Institutional challenges: Political obstacles to prosecuting grand corruption were high in
both countries. Capacity in the criminal justice system to prosecute complex corruption cases
was present in Nigeria but absent in Haiti.

Both countries developed links with the law enforcement institutions of other nations.
Haiti’s government drew on capacity from the United States not only during the investigative
phase but in the prosecution as well. In Nigeria, by contrast, local oﬃcials mainly drew on the
investigative capacity of the United Kingdom to gather evidence to be used for convictions in
Nigerian courts.
Since former Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide ﬂed into exile in 2004, successive Haitian governments have sought to recoup funds lost from a corrupt agreement with American
telecommunications companies. According to the government, Haiti Teleco, Haiti’s stateowned telecom ﬁrm, had provided services at cut-rate prices to American providers in return
for kickbacks to senior government oﬃcials and key Teleco staﬀ. The case involved a complex
scheme of favorable tariﬀs with kickbacks channeled through an intermediary’s oﬀshore bank
account. Proving it in a Haitian court would have been a challenge, given the absence of police
and prosecutors with experience handling cases of sophisticated ﬁnancial crime, and once the
earthquake hit in January 2010 it would have been nigh impossible. In December 2009, the U.S.
Department of Justice charged two former employees of Teleco who allegedly received kickbacks with money laundering oﬀenses. In June 2010, one of the two was convicted and sentenced to four years in prison and ordered to pay US$1.8 million in restitution to the government of Haiti and forfeit another US$1.6 million. The second employee awaits trial.
In Nigeria, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) worked closely with the
U.K. Crown Prosecution Service and Scotland Yard to develop evidence against the corrupt
governors of three Nigerian states. The EFCC alerted British authorities to the possibility that
the governors were hiding the proceeds of corruption in London banks or real estate investments. In one of the cases, the governor was prosecuted in the U.K. for money laundering; in
the others, the evidence was used to prosecute them in Nigeria. Under the Nigerian constitution, state governors enjoy immunity while in oﬃce. In one instance, evidence developed
by the U.K. criminal justice agencies was presented by a U.K. law enforcement oﬃcial to a committee of the state’s legislature, which voted to remove the governor from oﬃce, thus lifting
his immunity and allowing him to be charged in Nigeria. During these investigations, the EFCC
worked closely with U.K. oﬃcials and received on-the-job training.
Source: Messick 2011.

and money laundering through joint investigations or prosecutions. Where stronger
jurisdictions pair with those with weaker institutions, these initiatives have the potential
to build capacity as well as deliver practical
results in diminishing impunity. Investigations and prosecutions involving trafficking
can increase this type of cooperation, which

can be differentiated for different environments, as in Haiti and Nigeria (box 8.4).

Mobilizing international support
Some constraints on international support
come from policies and systems in the headquarters of multilaterals and donor coun-

Practical country directions and options

tries (chapter 9). National leaders and their
partners on the ground cannot individually
determine these broader changes to the international system, but they can act to maximize the benefits of existing support.
It helps when national leaders and their
international partners in the field lay out
clear, program-level priorities across the security, justice, and development domains.
Where national actors are divided in their
priorities (for example, with different ministries putting forth different requests, or
donor field representatives disagreeing on
overall priorities), international capitals and
the governing structures of multilaterals will
not receive a clear message to focus efforts.
Priorities are better laid out in a very limited
number of clear programs, as in Liberia after
the civil war or Colombia in the face of rising criminal violence after 2002.37 Using the
national budget process to decide on priority programs creates leverage to coordinate
messages and implementation between the
security and development ministries.
Being alert to the needs of international
partners to show results and manage risks
can also improve results from international
aid. International partners have their own
domestic pressures—such as demonstrating that aid funds are not misused and being
able to attribute results to their endeavors. A
frank exchange on risks and results helps to
find ways to bridge differences. In Indonesia in the aftermath of the tsunami and Aceh
peace agreement, the government agreed with
donors that incoming assistance would be
“jointly branded” from the Indonesian Reconstruction Agency and donors, with special
transparency measures in place. This enabled
both sides to show visible results and manage
risks, while bolstering state-society relations
in the aftermath of crisis. In donor coordination arrangements for highly aid-dependent
countries, “double compacts,” described in
chapter 6, can be a useful tool. These agreements lay out the results governments aim to
provide to their own citizens as well as clarify
mutual commitments between governments
and donors.

An important trade-off for national reformers and their international partners is
to ensure that international delivery capacity can help deliver fast results while also
supporting increases in the legitimacy of
national institutions. International humanitarian assistance, for example, not only can
save lives but also can help greatly in delivering quick confidence-building results. But
humanitarian delivery of food imports can
also distort production in local markets, and
long-term international humanitarian provision of health, education, and water and
sanitation services can undermine efforts
to increase the credibility of local institutions. Much of this can be avoided through
phased transitions from humanitarian capacity to local institutions (box 8.5). Similar
approaches can be used in other sectors: the
International Commission against Impunity
in Guatemala, for example, combines local
judicial capacity-building with the use of
international staff to assist in investigations
and prosecutions.38 The Governance and
Economic Management Program in Liberia
has shifted from an initial focus on international executive support for accountability
over public resources to capacity-building in
national systems.39
National reformers and their international
partners in-country have a rich set of experiences to draw on—both in evaluating efforts
in the past in their countries and in adapting experiences from around the world. The
tools in this chapter offer options for this adaptation. Confidence-building through collaborative approaches and early results and
the foundational reforms that can deliver citizen security, justice, and jobs have some elements in common. But they need to be well
adapted to the local political context. The
task of national reformers and international
representatives in the field is made easier—
or harder—by the supporting environments
in global policy and in the headquarters of
bilateral actors and the global institutions.
Chapter 9 turns to directions for global policy to support countries struggling to prevent
and recover from violence on the ground.

265

266

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

B OX 8 .5

Phasing the transition from international humanitarian aid to local
institutions: Afghanistan and Timor-Leste

Types of violence: Both countries have a history of external and civil conﬂict, with signiﬁcant ongoing violence in Afghanistan and, in
Timor, a more limited wave of renewed political and communal conﬂict and gang-based violence in 2005–06.
Transition opportunities: Signiﬁcant transitions occurred in both
countries: particularly signiﬁcant was space for change under the
UN transitional authority in Timor in 1999–2002.

Key stakeholders: Government, civil society, and humanitarian
and development donors were key stakeholders.

Institutional challenges: Limited service delivery, severe capacity
constraints, many donor players were the major challenges.

Timor-Leste
Following the UN supervised referendum on independence of August 1999, Timor-Leste suﬀered widespread violence and destruction
of its infrastructure and collapse of state services. In the transition period before and after independence in 2002, Timor-Leste managed, however, to provide both rapid results and long-term institution-building in the health sector in four phases.
In the ﬁrst phase international and national NGOs occupied a central role in providing emergency health services throughout
Timor, independently funded through humanitarian assistance. In the second phase, the interim health authority established in 2000
developed a health plan and performance indicators and signed memoranda of understanding with NGOs to standardize the service
packages provided in diﬀerent parts of the territory still under independent humanitarian funding. In the third phase, NGOs were contracted directly by the transitional authority to perform both local management and service delivery functions. In the fourth phase, the
Interim Health Authority was replaced by a new ministry of health, which assumed district management of the system and facilities,
with NGOs important in specialized service delivery and a capacity-building role, but decreased local personnel over time. All the
major international agencies in the health sector worked together within this framework.
By 2004 this gradual phasing of responsibility and capacity-building had led to 90 percent of the population having access to
health facilities within a two-hour walking distance. Between 2000 and 2004, the use of these facilities rose from 0.75 outpatient visits
per capita to 2.13. The health ministry and district operations were among the few state functions resilient to renewed violence in
2005–06, continuing to operate and, indeed, to provide assistance to the displaced population.

Afghanistan
In the wake of the fall of the Taliban in 2002, Afghanistan’s basic health services were in a dismal condition, with maternal mortality
estimated at 1,600 per 100,000 live births. The Afghan ministry of public health outlined a package of priority health services in
response (costing about US$4 per capita per year) and contracted NGOs to deliver them, while also establishing rigorous monitoring
and evaluation. The NGOs were selected competitively and sanctioned for poor performance.
Early results have been optimistic, with a 136 percent increase in the number of functioning primary health care facilities between
2002 and 2007. Despite a worsening security situation, the number of outpatient visits between 2004 and 2007 also increased by nearly
400 percent. These outcomes have relied not only on political support but also on a commitment by the ministry of public health not
to micromanage the process.
By contracting autonomously operating NGOs while ensuring accountability, the Afghan government both earned and sustained
policy leadership in the health sector. It allowed the ministry of public health to address scarce human resources, a lack of physical
facilities, and logistical hurdles. The depth of ongoing violence in Afghanistan has not permitted national institutions to assume the
role played by NGOs over time, as in Timor-Leste, but the Afghan government and ministry of public health have still managed to
achieve much needed health outcomes in an uncertain environment dominated by insecurity and institutional challenges.
Sources: Baird 2010; Rohland and Cliﬀe 2002; Tulloch and others 2003.

Notes
1. WDR Consultation with former key negotiators from the ANC Alliance and the National Party in
South Africa, 2010; WDR team interview with former president Álvaro Uribe, 2010; WDR team
consultation with government officials, representatives from civil society organizations, and security personnel in Colombia, 2010.
2. Arboleda 2010; WDR team consultation with government officials, representatives from civil society organizations, and security personnel in Colombia, 2010.
3. Porter and Rab 2010.
4. For more in-depth discussion, see the section on delivering early results in chapter 4.

Practical country directions and options

5. Barron and Burke 2008; World Bank 2010a.
6. Dwan and Bailey 2006; Jahr 2010; Government of the Republic of Liberia Executive Mansion
2009. Also see box 4.3 in chapter 4.
7. CICIG 2009; Férnandez 2010; Donovan 2008; UN 2006a; Hudson 2010. Also see box 6.4 in
chapter 6.
8. Braud and Grevi 2005; Schulze 2007. Also see feature 4 in chapter 4.
9. See section on support to building inclusive-enough coalitions in chapter 6.
10. See UNODC 2010a; Duffield 2000; Kohlmann 2004. Also see the section on spillover effects of
violence and feature 1 in chapter 1.
11. Robinson 1994; Kingah and Kingah 2010.
12. Salazar 2007; Murphy 2008; Bronstein 2007.
13. For more information, see the section on delivering early results in chapter 4.
14. Cousens and Harland 2006; Statistical Office of Kosovo 2010; Chesterman 2004. Also see box 4.7
in chapter 4.
15. Dwan and Bailey 2006; Jahr 2010; Government of the Republic of Liberia Executive Mansion
2009; Baily and Hoskins 2007. Also see box 4.3 and box 4.6 in chapter 4.
16. BBC News 2010.
17. World Bank 2011a.
18. Dupuy and Binningsbø 2008. Also see discussion on inclusive-enough coalitions in chapter 4.
19. UNDPKO 2010a. Also see box 4.5 in chapter 4.
20. Graydon 2005; Greenfell 2006; Timor-Leste Independent Comprehensive Need Assessment Team
2009.
21. For Nicaragua, see Scheye 2009. For Sierra Leone, see Dale 2009. Also see the section on justice in
chapter 5 for more in-depth discussion.
22. Lamb and Dye 2009; Tajima 2009; see section on public finance for employment in chapter 5 for
in-depth discussion.
23. World Bank 2010d.
24. For Lebanon, see World Bank 2008f, 2009d; Republic of Lebanon Ministry of Environment 1999, box
5.9 in chapter 5. For Liberia, see Bailey and Hoskins 2007; McCandless 2008, box 4.6 in chapter 4; box
6.5 in chapter 6.
25. Herzberg 2004. Also see section on jobs in chapter 5.
26. USAID Rwanda 2006; Grygiel 2007; Parker 2008; Chohan-Pole 2010; Boudreaux 2010. Also see
box 5.8 in chapter 5.
27. For Japanese land reforms, see Kawagoe 1999; For broader statebuilding experience in Japan, see
Tsunekawa and Yoshida 2010; For Korean land reforms, see Shin 2006. For Singapore, see box 5.2
in chapter 5.
28. Lopes 2009.
29. World Bank 2006b; Kireyev 2006; Economic Times 2008. Also see section on public finance for
employment in chapter 5.
30. Ashe and Parrott 2001. Also see box 5.10 in chapter 5.
31. Mobekk 2010; Bastick, Grimm, and Kunz 2007. Also see section on security in chapter 5 for more
information.
32. For Northern Ireland, see Barron and others 2010. Also see the section on decentralization and
devolution in chapter 5. For South Africa, see Hayner 2010; UNOHCHR 2006. For Germany,
see Grimm 2010. Also see the section titled “Transitional justice to recognize past crimes” in
chapter 5.
33. UNDPKO 2010a. Also see box 5.5 in chapter 5.
34. Bowden 2010; Gilpin 2009. Also see section on spillover effects of violence in chapter 1.
35. World Bank 2006d. See section titled “Between the global and the national: Regional stresses,
regional support” in chapter 7.
36. Greta and Lewandowski 2010; Otocan 2010; Council of Europe 1995; Council of Europe and
Institute of International Sociology of Gorizia 2003; Bilcik and others 2000. Also see box 7.11 in
chapter 7.
37. Liberia: Giovine and others 2010; box 4.6 in chapter 4. Colombia: WDR team interview with former president Álvaro Uribe, 2010; WDR team consultation with government officials, representatives from civil society organizations, and security personnel in Colombia, 2010.
38. CICIG 2009; Férnandez 2010; Donovan 2008; UN 2006a; Hudson 2010. Also see box 6.4 in
chapter 6.
39. Dwan and Bailey 2006; Jahr 2010; Government of the Republic of Liberia Executive Mansion
2009. Also see box 4.3 in chapter 4.

267

C

hapter 9 sets out new directions for international policy.
International assistance to strengthen the national institutions and governance that provide citizen security, justice,
and jobs, and to alleviate the factors that undermine them, is crucial
to break the repeated cycles of violence described in this Report.
But it requires an international system better adapted to address
21st-century risks of violence. This means refocusing assistance on
preventing criminal and political violence through greater, and
more integrated, support for security, justice, and jobs; reforming
the procedures of international agencies; responding at a regional
level; and renewing cooperative eﬀorts among lower-, middle-, and
higher-income countries.

CITIZEN
SECURITY,
JUSTICE,
AND JOBS

CHAPTER

EXTERNAL
STRESS

VIOLENCE and
FRAGILITY

9

EXTERNAL SUPPORT
AND INCENTIVES

New directions for
international support

T

he international system achieved
remarkable progress in reducing
20th-century violence. The overall
decrease in interstate war owes a
great deal to the establishment and growth of
an international architecture after World War
II that viewed peace and prosperity as linked
and embodied shared global standards and
new methods of collective action to address
threats. The adaptation of that system at the
end of the Cold War provided new tools that
contributed to a subsequent reduction in the
number and severity of civil wars. This Report stresses that progress in overcoming violence and reducing risk is above all a national
process and that national actors need to own
their institutional transformation. Yet many
of the national responses analyzed in part 2
of this Report, “Lessons from National and
International Responses,” were achieved with
international support. It is difficult to imagine how committed leaders in post–World
War II Europe, Indonesia, the Republic of
Korea, Liberia, Mozambique, Northern Ireland, Singapore, or Timor-Leste would have
stabilized their countries or regions without
help from abroad.
The international system is hampered,
however, by structures and processes that are
not sufficiently adapted to the current challenge as described in chapters 6 and 7. There
is relatively little capacity internationally to

support the core institutional challenges for
violence prevention—citizen security, justice,
and jobs. Internal agency processes are often
too slow to support confidence-building and
too quick to exit, inadequately engaged with
building national institutions, and preoccupied with technical “best practice” rather
than functionality adapted to the local political context. Divisions between diplomatic,
security, and development agencies, and between those initiatives dealing with political
conflict and criminal violence, persist, despite the practical links on the ground between these issues. Efforts are targeted more
at the national than the regional level, and
global initiatives on corruption and trafficking lack robust tools to “follow the money”
across fragile jurisdictions. A focus on smarter
assistance tools is particularly urgent given
the current environment of constraints on
aid budgets.
The changing international balance of
power is also widening the circle of influential actors. With the rising economic and
diplomatic influence of lower- and middleincome countries, the focus of influence on
national action is shifting. Middle-income
countries, many with a history of solidarity
support and increasing aid programs, are
taking on greater responsibilities for shaping
outcomes beyond their borders. And regional
institutions are playing a larger role. In fragile

270

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

situations, the different domestic pressures
faced by OECD (Organisation for Economic
Co-operation and Development) donors, recipient countries, and middle-income countries—the “dual accountability dilemma” of
accountability pressures both to domestic
constituencies and shareholders and to the
leaders and citizens of recipient states described in chapter 6—often means that their
view on priorities and what is reasonable to
expect of national actors are divided.
Taken together, these constraints mean
that international assistance is not yet marshaling the resources needed to address the
21st-century challenges of repeated and interlinked violence and weak governance. To
achieve real change in approaches, this Report considers four tracks to improve global
responses for security and development.
• Track 1: Preventing repeated cycles of violence by investing in citizen security, justice, and jobs
• Track 2: Reforming internal agency systems to support rapid action to restore
confidence and long-term institutionbuilding
• Track 3: Acting regionally and globally on
external stresses
• Track 4: Marshaling experience and support from lower-, middle-, and higherincome countries and global and regional institutions to reflect the changing
landscape of international policy and
assistance.

Track 1: Preventing repeated cycles
of violence by investing in citizen
security, justice, and jobs
The demand for international support that
can help areas struggling to prevent largescale political or criminal violence is high.
Prevention does not mean only the prevention of new violence in hitherto peaceful
areas, but reducing the risk of recurring
violence in countries that have already experienced past cycles, for example, Guate-

mala or Yemen. Repeated cycles of political
and criminal violence require thinking outside the box, beyond the traditional development paradigm. Issues of citizen security are
not peripheral to “mainstream” development.
They are in varying forms a problem for subnational areas of larger and more prosperous
countries, for countries emerging from conflict that need to prevent recurrence, and for
areas facing new or resurgent threats. More
effective international support to risk reduction requires (1) combined tools that link
citizen security, justice, jobs, and associated
services, and (2) structural investments in
justice and employment capacity.

Operational gaps in capacity—
New tools for combined action
International actors increasingly recognize
that development and security march hand
in hand. But most international instruments
do not. The basic tools presented in chapter
8 to prevent repeated cycles of violence require linked action from political, security,
development, and humanitarian actors. Yet
these actors generally assess priorities and
develop their programs separately, with efforts to help national reformers build unified programs being the exception rather
than the rule. United Nations (UN) “integrated missions” and various bilateral and
regional “whole-of-government” initiatives
have emerged to address the challenge of
merging development, diplomatic, and security strategies and operations. But these
models still struggle with the reality that
different disciplines bring with them different goals, business models, planning time
frames, decision-making processes, funding
streams, and risk calculus. Action has often
stopped at the level of light “coordination”
rather than moving toward programs that
combine efforts on the ground.1
The range of practical experience available
in the international system in supporting integrated approaches to prevent repeated cycles of violence has improved. There has been
an increase in global and regional mediation,
a greater focus on security-sector reform,

New directions for international support

an increase in police capacity-building, and
strengthening of links between peacekeeping and civilian assistance. Some innovative
programs have been developed, such as the
“peace infrastructure” supported by the UN
Development Programme (UNDP) and Department of Political Affairs (UNDPA),2 the
Inter-American Development Bank’s (IADB)
community projects for citizen security, and
collaboration on safe transit between the
World Bank and UN peacekeeping missions.
Such initiatives often support combined action relating to citizen security, justice, and
jobs, but they are not yet in the mainstream
of diplomatic, security, or development implementation on the ground.
A different way of doing business is
needed. There is a need to move away from
simply tweaking current practices toward
a fundamentally new practical set of tools
to link development and security, development and mediation, and development and
humanitarian assistance. New tools should
aim to have a catalytic effect in supporting
confidence-building and longer-term institutional transformation.
The key lessons from country experiences of international assistance are that four
types of programs requiring combined efforts by development, security, political, and
humanitarian actors are needed in insecure
situations (table 9.1). These would be the top
priority operational tools for international
partners to target combined action on the
ground. The development of a specialized
suite of catalytic products deliverable at scale
nationally or subnationally would enhance
the ability of international agencies to respond effectively to government requests for
assistance in preventing repeated cycles of
violence. Amongst the member states of the
multilateral organizations, greater coherence
and consistency in the positions they take in
multilateral governance bodies would help
foster such combined operations.

Principles for combined operations
Shared principles for the management of
combined operations are also necessary—

again moving beyond mere “coordination.”
For in-country management, much international action remains stuck, aptly characterized by the adage, “everyone wants to
coordinate but no one wants to be coordinated.” In this case, the Report suggests using the principle of subsidiarity: the closer to
violence, the better the understanding of the
local priorities and the more effectively the
combined management can operate. In general, this would mean empowering national
leadership in the coordination of assistance
and ensuring that they have the support to
do this. In others, thinking about subsidiarity
may mean empowering regional institutions
to supplement national governments’ coordinating role.
Where national coordinating mechanisms
lack sufficient authority or capacity to influence the more powerful international actors,
joint global-local or global-regional-local
leadership could improve confidence and
traction. The Association of Southeast Asian
Nations (ASEAN), the UN, and the Myanmar Government Tripartite Core Group after
Cyclone Nargis in Myanmar is one example,
and the Bosnia Board of Principals3 structure
involving international partners and senior
government officials is a second. Where regional or UN special representatives are given
the task of coordination, the World Bank
could consider coordinating the work of its
field representatives more closely behind their
leadership—with a clear lead on resource mobilization supporting the political convening
role of the UN or regional organizations.

Structural gaps in capacity—
justice and jobs
As argued throughout this Report, the institutions that provide citizen security, justice,
and jobs are crucial in creating resilience
to repeated cycles of violence. Unfortunately,
these priority areas are underresourced and
lack ownership in the current international
architecture. In each area, there are structural
gaps in knowledge and operational capacity. Economic policy assistance still tends to
be focused more on growth than employ-

271

272

TA B L E 9.1

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

International tools to link confidence-building and institutional transformation across the political,
security, development, and humanitarian spheres

Risk and opportunity
assessments

A shift from early warning to contingency planning for repeated cycles of violence. While agency and academic models
of early warning continue to make useful progress, no such model can ever predict the exact timing of the onset of
violence or capture all local variations. More useful is a mode of planning that accepts as a starting point that states and
subnational areas with weak institutions continually risk being overwhelmed by a range of stresses.
Changes to planning and assessment tools as a basis for combined action. To adapt to the reality of repeated cycles of
violence and multiple transitions, assessment processes would become lighter and more ﬂexible to provide regular,
repeated assessments of risks and opportunities. The assessments would beneﬁt from more realism in priorities and
timelines; stronger political economy analysis; and a tighter focus on the goals of citizen security, justice, and jobs.

Security, justice, and
jobs

Technical assistance and financing for multisectoral community programs that involve policing and justice as well as
development activities. These eﬀorts can build on initiatives in Latin America and Africa to provide local dispute resolution
and justice services, community policing, employment and training, safe public and trading spaces, and social and cultural
programs that promote tolerance.
Combined technical teams and financing to support the strategic, technical, and public financing aspects of institutional
reforms in the security and justice sectors—with economic, governance, and public ﬁnance specialists complementing
the eﬀorts of security, police, and judicial personnel. These eﬀorts would build on the insights presented in this Report,
focusing on basic functions to build trust and performance (including budget and expenditure functions); connections
between the police, civilian justice, and corrections systems; and access to justice services at a local level, including
through the blending of formal and informal systems.

Links to sustained
mediation

Supporting of national and local capacities for mediation and coalition-building. Countries facing rapid transitions and
cycles of violence will need to negotiate new internal pacts, and build consensus, around eﬀective policies to address
their many challenges. These negotiations will in turn require that the parties have access to internal mediators, and to
their own skills and autonomous platforms, for dialogue and for the resolution of conﬂicts. By helping build and apply
such capacities, development assistance has already contributed to peaceful elections, for instance, in several cases since
2004, and most recently during the constitutional referendum in Kenya in 2010. Further development of national and local
capacities for managing cyclical conﬂict, cascading change, and rapid transitions is therefore not only essential, but also
feasible.
Supporting of expertise for international mediation. For these eﬀorts to deliver sustained results, they should be linked
to the developmental assistance that can provide conﬁdence-building and institutional transformation and should be
available to governments for the longer term. Seconding increased expertise from bilateral agencies and international
ﬁnancial institutions (IFIs) to UN regional and civil society special envoys and mediators would help bridge gaps in
political, security, and economic support.
Developmental help during mounting crises. Countries struggling to prevent escalation of criminal and political violence
often need timely ﬁnancial help, although this can be met in part by improving the predictability of funding for mediation,
initiating planned development support, and focusing security or development activities on localities with rising threats.
Where exceptional additional ﬁnancial support is needed (for example, in situations of high external stress and weak
institutions), the responsible leadership of national reformers can be gauged by the signals they are prepared to give—for
example, they might welcome international access to violence-aﬀected areas and transparent reporting of budget and
expenditure data under the auspices of an accepted regional prevention plan (see box 9.1 on investment in prevention).

Humanitarian
support to national
institution-building

Guidelines on phasing humanitarian assistance to build national institutional capacity over time. Where national
institutional capacity and governance are improving, guidelines build on good practice by the UNDP, UNICEF (UN
Children’s Fund), WHO (World Health Organization), WFP (World Food Programme), and many nongovernmental
organization (NGO) partners in combining humanitarian services delivery with capacity-building. Timelines for phasing
the transition from international humanitarian assistance to national institutional capacity will vary by country.
A strengthened framework under which international humanitarian assistance can be “jointly branded” with local institutions, or in-kind assistance of humanitarian materials and staff provided to support state social protection operations,
with appropriate monitoring. Where this is not possible, increased use of community-driven mechanisms and local staﬀ to
deliver humanitarian aid would help to build resilient local capacities.

New directions for international support

REFLECTIONS FROM ADVISORY COUNCIL MEMBERS: 2011 WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT
B OX 9.1

Preventing violence: Prioritizing investment in citizen security and justice reforms
Investment in prevention

Kenzo Oshima, Senior Vice President, Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA),
Former Permanent Representative of Japan to the United Nations; WDR Advisory Council Member
The vital importance of conﬂict prevention has been understood for many years, and advocates have argued passionately for it. When Article 1 of the United Nations Charter was
written, however, enshrining a mandate “to take eﬀective
collective measures for the prevention and removal of
threats to the peace,” the main focus of concern was interstate war. Since then, the nature of armed conﬂict has
changed. Although for many years we were unaware of the
magnitude, there has been a signiﬁcant shift from interstate
to intrastate conﬂict and then from “classic” civil war to
mixed problems of criminal and political violence, demanding a concomitant shift in our prevention focus.
The case of Afghanistan exempliﬁes the consequences
of this unawareness. After the Soviet withdrawal, the international community was largely oblivious to ongoing internal struggles. Then, in the early 2000s, that “forgotten conﬂict” became a serious global security threat. Our capacity
internationally to foresee the risk that a particular country
might fall into conﬂict and to mitigate that risk in a timely
manner has been weak and that weakness has contributed
to our failure to prevent conﬂicts from happening.
It is important that the international community ﬁnd
a better way to coordinate, through mechanisms that
include not only UN agencies, but also international ﬁnancial institutions and regional/sub-regional organizations

such as African Union (AU), ASEAN, and Economic Community
of West African States (ECOWAS). My profound hope is that
WDR 2011 will convince these stakeholders that collaboration
on investment in conﬂict prevention is urgently needed.
While the UN Security Council retains the primary authority under international law for the prevention of armed conﬂict, others can play vital roles. This includes, vitally, national
governments themselves, who ultimately have the primary
responsibility to manage violence. These actors are all present
in the country-speciﬁc meetings of the UN Peacebuilding
Commission (PBC), which was established in 2005 following
on the recommendations of the Secretary-General’s HighLevel Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change. However,
while the two tasks were suggested for it by the High-Level
Panel, one focusing on response to the soaring risk of fresh
conﬂicts—“to help states avoid collapse and the slide to
war”—was omitted from its core functions. In the face of this
limitation, the 2010 review of UN peacebuilding architecture,
while recognizing the narrowness of the mandate, recommends that the Commission utilize to the fullest the potential
given by its existing mandate to expand its prevention role.
Whether through this route or otherwise, the fact remains
that linking political, security and economic actors is a critical
part of how the international system can better help countries
prevent new threats of conﬂict and other forms of violence.

Security and justice as foundational reforms: Addressing violence and criminality

Zeid Ra’ad Al-Hussein, Ambassador of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan to the United Nations;
WDR Advisory Council Member
War creates crime; and I do not mean the atrocity crimes we
commonly associate with war; rather, I refer to the appearance of its oldest companion and practitioner: the war profiteer. The smuggler of weapons, of fuel, of vehicles and narcotics, in war, will often bind with others to create networks
of black market activity so eﬃcient that, by the time a peace
is struck, their potency means they not only survive the war
intact, supremely well-organized, but also they do so with
momentum.
A newly formed government in the aﬀected country
could only hope to match them, indeed overcome or defeat
them in the long term, if two early conditions are fulﬁlled—
with vital action by the international community itself.
The target country must ﬁrst be provided with security
assistance, and then must be in a position to deliver an
eﬀective judicial system to its people, including police and
corrections. If the nascent government cannot do the latter,

and in many cases it would be too weak to do so, the international community must then do it with them. It must supply
doctrine for international policing and criminal justice support
operations, as well as fast and ﬂexible executive assistance to
help Governments carry out police and judicial functions as
well as the corrections facilities. And that is all. Nothing more
need be done.
With security and a functioning judicial system in place, a
country recovering from war could hope to maintain the lowest levels of public corruption, indeed, extinguish organized
crime altogether, and be ready to embrace the in-ﬂow of foreign direct investment (FDI) and other forms of ﬁnancial assistance. Should we fail to grasp just how fundamental security
and justice are to the whole enterprise of peacebuilding, the
sole beneﬁciaries of our inattentiveness, and much to their
delight—will continue to be organized crime—the very oﬀspring of war itself.

273

274

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

ment, despite rising demands for assistance
on employment policy from countries facing fragile situations due to unemployed
and disengaged youth populations. Assistance to countries struggling to develop wellgoverned police forces, civilian justice, and
corrections systems in the face of fluid violent
threats is much more limited than assistance
available to build military capacity, and there
is a disconnect between the policing and civilian justice areas. The section below provides
recommendations to address gaps in support
for employment and the rule of law.

Employment
As described in chapters 5 and 8, there is little
consensus on the exact set of policies that can
generate sustained labor-intensive growth in
the face of high unemployment, and even less
so in violent environments. What we have
available is a series of “good fit” examples of
policies and programs that appear to have
delivered results in creating employment in
different country circumstances. At the international level, better evaluation of these program interventions and the macroeconomic
environment in which they can deliver is an
important priority.
At the national level, leaders cannot wait
for a more comprehensive international consensus on employment policies to evolve—
they need to address the challenges of youth
unemployment in insecure areas now, based
on the tools they have available. A sensible approach would be to support the types of programs described in chapter 8, combined with
evaluations and feedback loops that provide
information to refine policies and program
design.
Priority programs for job creation to
which this approach should be applied include investments in supporting infrastructure, in particular, electricity and transit. A
second program cluster is those that invest in
skills; develop links among producers, traders, and consumers; and expand access to
finance and assets. Last, recognizing that private sector–led growth sufficient to absorb

young entrants to the labor market may take
a generation in many fragile situations, there
is a need to simultaneously support and evaluate transitional employment measures.
Efforts to strengthen international support to employment should draw on joint
security, justice, and economic tools. Unemployment is traditionally viewed as simply
a function of economic conditions. But in
highly insecure areas, international security
assistance can help ensure safe trade and
transit, enabling productive investment from
within and outside the country. For violence
prevention, there are also links between employment, justice, and identity issues. Programs that reinforce the role of disengaged
youth as community members and support
job creation with social and cultural activities
merit investment and further evaluation.
These approaches would help. But there is
likely to be continued pressure from large unemployed youth populations unless a more
significant international effort is launched. A
bolder approach could draw together capacities from development agencies, the private
sector, foundations, and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) to support a new
global partnership to galvanize investments
in countries and communities where high
unemployment and social disengagement
contribute to the risks of conflict. Focusing
primarily on job creation through project
finance, advisory support to small and medium businesses, training, and guarantees,
the initiative would also support social and
cultural initiatives that promote collaborative
capacities in communities, social tolerance,
and recognition of young people’s social and
economic roles. Private sector capacities to
draw on include large companies that trade
and invest in insecure areas (creating links
with local entrepreneurs), as well as technology companies that can assist with connectivity and training in remote insecure areas.

Police and justice
To fill the rising demand for assistance with
criminal justice issues, systems to provide

New directions for international support

support for police and justice should be
flexible. This, in three senses. First, some
states have adequate police capacity but face
gaps in other aspects of their civilian justice
systems—or the gaps are in police capacity, not in justice systems. Others have gaps
across the board. Second, some will need assistance as part of a broader package of conflict management support, often under UN
Security Council or regional institution auspices. Others will need specialized assistance
to strengthen their police and civilian justice
sectors without broader political engagement.
Third, some will prefer assistance from within
the region, while others will prefer to look
to global mechanisms. Any effort to deepen
international capacity to provide assistance
should build in this flexibility of response.
That assistance should also be available to
help national authorities deal with specialized
transboundary challenges—from financial
crimes to trafficking issues. These specialized
challenges will be covered in the next section.
The starting point for improving the
international response to criminal justice
capacity-building is increasing the supply of
personnel. National governments, both high
and middle income, could usefully invest (or
continue to invest) in increasing the pool of
police and other criminal justice personnel
available for overseas deployment, whether
through bilateral or multilateral programs.
There are three main options available to
increase this supply, all desirable: drawing
on retired officers as advisers; secondment
of active service members; and provision of
formed police units. Formed police units are
requested by a relatively small number of
countries under UN peacekeeping missions,
but demand has clearly grown in recent years
in relation to military deployments. Secondment of active service members can be assisted by career and promotion systems that
recognize and reward international experience. In all three areas, deployment of women
police officers has proved valuable.
For other functions of the civilian justice
system, current capacity to supply personnel
is weaker than for police. Within ongoing ef-

forts to develop rosters of civilian expertise,
the availability of justice professionals and
administrators should continue to receive
particular attention—but with a focus on capacity from the South that can provide experience of reform of weak systems in difficult
environments of political contest.
Police and justice personnel must also be
deployed with appropriate training. In both
policing and broader civilian justice, national
systems differ greatly in their organizational
structures, legal frameworks, and practices,
far more so than for military capacity. As
described in chapter 6, the UN’s Standing
Police Capacity and its Office of Rule of Law
and Security Institutions have begun to make
headway on standardized doctrine and training for police units willing to deploy into UN
operations. But there is no similar mechanism
for joint training of national judicial personnel to expose them to different systems and
practices, and less of a body of knowledge
on approaching institution-building in fragile settings. Extending training in both areas
through global and regional centers would
improve the impact of additional personnel capacity. Within bilateral assistance programs, long-term institutional partnerships
between agencies providing technical assistance and national counterpart agencies may
be another mechanism to strengthen the sensitivity of assistance to the local context.
As with employment, combined security and developmental approaches will be
needed to support justice issues. There are
areas where, at the request of government,
the Bank and other international financial
institutions (IFIs) could consider playing a
greater role in supporting the developmental
underpinnings of violence prevention within
their mandates—such as the links between
public financial management and security
sector reform and institution-building, legal
administration, justice systems development
and multisectoral approaches at the community level that combine community policing
and justice services with social cohesion,
developmental, and employment creation
programs.

275

276

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

But the IFIs are not well placed to support
the core operational aspects of a criminal justice system. A clear lead within the UN system would help. Softer options for change in
this area include the “global service provider”
model currently under discussion, with one
agency leading on police and another on
other aspects of the civilian justice system,
or one leading on deployments for executive functions and the other on institutional
transformation. Since a consistent theme
throughout this Report has been the need
to link support to police and civilian justice
systems, the division of labor in the international system would ideally facilitate this
linkage rather than further separate capacities. Bolder options for change could involve
breaking down barriers between police and
justice assistance, either at a country level by
facilitating an integration of the financing
and program management of police and justice support, or by identifying a single organizational responsibility.4

Track 2: Reforming internal agency
procedures
New international commitment to programs
that combine citizen security, justice, and
employment linkages and an increase in
structural capacities to support justice, and
employment challenges will be effective only
to the extent that international agencies can
provide assistance fast, and take the risks
necessary to support national institutional
development. Without these actions, an increased emphasis on prevention will not be
reflected in improved performance on the
ground. To address this, internal agency reforms, new tools to manage risks and results,
and mechanisms to end the stop-go pattern
of international assistance are needed.

Principles for internal agency reforms
To support countries with rapid confidencebuilding assistance and longer-term institutional transformation, internal reform is
needed for international agencies to improve

responsiveness. Many individuals working on
fragile and conflict-affected states are dedicated professionals attempting to support
national efforts. But they are held back by
structures, tools, and processes designed for
different contexts and purposes. Best-fit approaches designed to fit the local context are
as important for international approaches as
for national reforms. Budgeting, staffing, results measurement, and fiduciary systems require significant changes to achieve a best fit in
fragile situations in almost all the multilateral
agencies—and in many bilaterals. Existing
systems that implicitly avoid risk—insisting
on sophisticated controls initially developed
for more stable and higher-capacity countries, and often choosing to delay assistance
when risks are high—have not delivered consistent results. For the g7+ group of leaders of
fragile states5 who have begun to meet regularly as part of the International Dialogue on
Peacebuilding and Statebuilding, reforming
internal agency procedures, particularly procurement procedures, was the number-one
suggestion for international reform. Principles to bridge the different perspectives of
donors and recipient countries on risks and
guide internal agency reforms that emerge
from this Report’s analysis are as follows.
• First, accept the links between security
and development outcomes. Few internal
systems in the multilateral agencies are
designed to support the links between security and development outcomes. Program objectives tend to be narrowly set.
Economic and social interventions in
situations of insecurity can justifiably be
designed to contribute to citizen security
and justice outcomes (a decrease in homicides, for example). Security programs
can also be designed to contribute to development outcomes (an increase in trade,
for example). This would require agencies
to use outcome measures outside their
traditional “technical” domains, and work
together within the combined program
frameworks described above. Rewarding
staff for partnership would also help facilitate cooperation.

New directions for international support

• Second, adapt to the reality of the absence
of security, institutional capacity, and fully
competitive markets in fragile situations.
When insecurity is high, both the costs
and benefits of interventions may change
dramatically over a short period. This
argues for greater flexibility in administrative budget and staff planning. In program budgets, it implies careful sequencing where some programs will be more
beneficial at a later date, but also placing
more weight on speed (over some costefficiency and quality concerns) in contracting of personnel, goods, works, and
services where benefits to fast action are
high. Where competitive markets are very
thin and not transparent, different procurement controls—such as pre-tendering
internationally under variable quantity
contracts, or contracting processes that
allow direct negotiations with knowledge
of regional markets—can be appropriate.
Where institutional capacity is insufficient,
procedures need to be distilled to the simplest level of due process, together with
flexible mechanisms to execute some activities on behalf of recipient institutions.
• Third, balance the risk of action with the
risk of inaction. The first implication of
this principle is that countries in need of
assistance and their international partners
have to accept each other’s concerns on
risk. The prime minister of a country in a
fragile situation is not wrong to seek immediate help to pay salaries and provide
equipment for the security forces; a minister of development cooperation is not
wrong to worry about risks of corruption
or human rights abuses. To align their interests, they must understand each other’s
constraints. The second implication is that
solutions will require that these needs are
balanced, rather than risk aversion dominating. Decentralizing greater responsibility and accountability to international staff
on the ground can increase responsiveness
to the risks of inaction. Transparent publication of achievements against target
timelines for donor funds release and ac-

tivities—and reasons for delays—would
also help to shift international incentives
in favor of action. Donors, though, will
need to have different ways to manage the
risks of their engagement, which will be
covered in the next section.
• Fourth, accept that some programs will
fail, and adapt rapidly in response. Rates of
success in assistance programs should be
lower in fragile situations than in stable
development situations, since the contextual risk is by definition higher. This is justified because returns are also far greater
when programs work—in peace and security terms, but also in development terms
because these countries start from such a
low baseline on the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The political
problem for donors in accepting a certain
degree of failure is the perception that international actors are naive about risks
and slow to act when problems arise. Having a menu of options to shift modalities
rapidly when failures occur is crucial in
managing donor risks without abandoning support to national institutions. To
avoid disrupting program continuity, embedding contingencies into program design from the beginning is crucial, as will
be discussed in the next section.
Adopting these principles would help bilateral and multilateral agencies reform internal systems in an appropriate way, to both
manage risks and deliver better results. These
principles could be incorporated into agency
procedures in several ways: (1) increasing the
use of adequate contingency funds under
appropriate oversight; (2) adapting models,
such as community procurement, already
geared to thin markets and low institutional
capacity in national procurement processes;
(3) putting in place effective best-fit measures
to increase transparency and control costs,
such as staff able to monitor reasonable regional prices in noncompetitive procurement
processes; (4) simplifying processes, delegating authority, and accelerating turnaround
times; and (5) changing incentives and performance monitoring mechanisms for staff to

277

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

ensure that those who learn from failure and
adapt quickly are rewarded. Responses will
and should vary by agency—but common
principles would help improve the complementarity of international agency support.

tolerance and will be able to choose modes
that go more directly through national budgets and institutions; others will need greater
oversight or nonstate involvement in delivery. Various options exist for managing risk,
including the following:

Risk and results management

• Increasing the contingencies in budgets,
under transparent planning assumptions. Where governance is volatile, development program budgets, as well as the
budgets for political and peacekeeping
missions, would benefit from greater contingency measures so that activities and
delivery mechanisms could be adjusted
when new risks and opportunities emerge
without disrupting overall support. The
planning assumptions for such contingencies—for example, that additional
oversight mechanisms will be adopted if
certain agreed-on measures of governance
deteriorate—should be transparent to
both recipient governments and the governing bodies of international agencies.

Current donor risk management relies on
two primary mechanisms: postponing or
suspending assistance when risks are too
high, and using headquarters controls rather
than best-fit delivery mechanisms adapted
to local conditions. Both are driven in large
part to meet the dual-accountability pressure from domestic constituencies to avoid
risks of corruption, wastage, or abuse. This
may manage donor risk, but it constrains
real progress in institution-building on the
ground. Where continuity in aid is needed,
risks do exist, and innovation is needed in
national strategy to fit the political context
(see figure 9.1). An alternative is to embrace
faster and more consistent engagement
through national institutions but to vary
the ways aid is delivered to manage risks
and results. Some donors have a higher risk-

F I G U R E 9 .1

• Varying the oversight mechanisms when
engaging through national budget and
institutions. Oversight mechanisms to

Adapting the modality of assistance to risk

Regular
support
Balancing risk and institution-building

278

Focus on
poverty
reduction

Contingency
and standby
measures

Varied
oversight
mechanisms

Varied
delivery
mechanisms

Regular
risk
environment

Flexible for
risks and
opportunities;
transparent
expectations

Tracking
expenditures;
independent
oversight

State-community,
state-UN, and
state-NGO under
government
auspices

Balancing risk and institution-building:
Rising violence or post-crisis with high
risk of recurrence

Dual key
mechanisms
Economic,
security, and
justice programs

Nongovernment
execution
Use of local
personnel and
community
systems

Balancing risk to
avoid disengagement

Increasing risk

Source: WDR team.

279

New directions for international support

adapt to risk include shifting from budget
support to “tracked” expenditure through
government systems,6 and from regular
reporting and internal control mechanisms to independent financial monitoring agents, independent monitoring of
complaints, and independent technical
agents.
• Varying the delivery mechanisms when
engaging through national institutions.
Variations in delivery mechanisms include
community structures, civil society, the
private sector, and the UN and other international executing agencies in delivering
programs jointly with state institutions.
In situations of more extreme risk where
donors would normally disengage, the following options could be considered:
• Consider executive capacity to supplement national control systems, as with
“dual key” mechanisms, where international line management capacity works
alongside national actors, and agency processes are governed by joint national and
international boards.
• Use local personnel and community
structures for delivering humanitarian,
economic, and social programs, which still
maintains some focus on local institutional capacity, mitigating the brain drain
of local skills overseas.
Risk can also be shared by pooling funds.
To achieve results at scale, pooling funds can
TA B L E 9.2

provide recipient governments with larger
single programs and international partners
with a way to support programs that greatly
exceed their own national contribution.
Pooling funds can also be an effective way to
pool risks, shifting the burden of responsibility for risks of waste, abuse, or corruption
from the shoulders of each individual donor
to the multilateral system. Multidonor trust
funds (MDTFs) have delivered excellent results in some situations. But the performance
of these funds is mixed, with criticisms ranging from slowness and cumbersome procedures and governance arrangements to a
lack of robust monitoring and evaluation of
results and limited support through national
systems. A small fraction of international assistance in violence-affected countries flows
through MDTFs, undermining their overall impact. The combined security-justicedevelopment programs and internal agency
reforms described above would help mitigate
some of these challenges.
Measuring transitional progress—as discussed in chapter 8 from the perspective of
national reformers—can also give international actors help in responding to risks. National reformers and donors need to show
results to their parliaments, media, taxpayers,
and citizens. Standard development measures,
such as economic growth and the MDGs, are
excellent long-term goals and indicators, but
they are not always helpful in fragile situations
in the short term. These indicators move too
slowly to give feedback to governments and

Compelling and feasible short-term indicators
Current data coverage: Most recent 5 years
Violence

Low-income
countries

Trust in national
institutions

Battle deaths

Homicide rates

Fragile

100% coverage,
low precision

24% coverage

Many every 3 to 4 years, some
more infrequently

Non-fragile

100% coverage,
low precision

48% coverage

Biennially

100% coverage,
medium precision

64% coverage

Annually, some more frequently

100% coverage,
high precision
(low incidence)

78% coverage

Monthly/weekly

Middle-income countries

High-income countries
Source: WDR team calculations.

280

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

their international partners on the speed and
direction of progress, and they do not directly
measure security, or citizen concerns over issues such as inequality, unemployment, or
trust in national institutions.
The development of indicators that can
show short-term progress is not just a technical issue—it is important at a political level
for both national governments and donors to
show short-term improvements and to maintain support for continued investments—
and at times for the occasional risky and difficult institutional reforms. The indicators
presented in chapter 8 on security, trust in
national institutions, and progress in governance in relation to the historic record of
how long transformations have taken in other
countries can help donors as well as national
reformers—by showing that progress is being
made even when some setbacks occur.
International actors could also play a role
in helping countries develop the capacity
to measure these indicators (see table 9.2).
WDR estimates indicate that information
on deaths in civil conflict is available for all
developing countries, although only 24 percent of fragile countries have homicide data
and the precision of battle-death information is likely lower. A partnership of member
states, the UN Office on Drugs and Crime
(UNODC), the IFIs, and the universities and
NGOs that collect conflict data could take
this forward. A similar effort could develop
another useful indicator: measuring confidence in institutions through polling. With
regard to trust in institutions, regular information on security and citizen perceptions
of the state is available in most high-income
and some middle-income countries, but is
rarely available in the fragile states, which
need it most. Polling surveys are cheap and
can be administered frequently—and new
technologies are emerging to conduct surveys by cell phone, which this Report did
as part of its background research in the
Democratic Republic of Congo.7 The Report
estimates indicate that most countries have
some polling data—but in fragile states the
data are collected very infrequently. A partnership of the regional barometers, Statistics

40, and the IFIs could support poorer and
more fragile countries in using the polling
tools that richer countries draw upon.

Ending the stop-go pattern of assistance
International agencies will also need to think
carefully about how to lengthen the duration of assistance to meet the realities of
institutional transformation over a generation without raising costs. As suggested by
Commissioner for Peace and Security, Ambassador Ramtane Lamamra and UnderSecretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations Alain Le Roy (box 9.2), the flexible use
of alternative modalities for peacekeeping
can aid substantially in this regard, including over-the-horizon capacities. Building on
growing cooperation, the multilateral security agencies—the African Union Peace and
Security Council, UN Department of Peacekeeping Operations, the European Union
(EU), and North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO)—could work with the IFIs
to conduct a thorough examination of the
costs and benefits of over-the-horizon deployments and other forms of flexible peacekeeping to provide long-term assistance in
fragile situations at reasonable cost.
Better resourcing for mediation and diplomatic facilitation is also an easy win, since
it is always low cost and can reduce risks of
violence escalation. This could be linked to
efforts to foster a norm that mediation or facilitation support should be on call for states
longer than is currently the pattern, so that it
is available to facilitate ongoing confidencebuilding beyond the immediate resolution of
a crisis.
For development agencies, ending the
stop-go pattern of assistance to programs delivering results in citizen security, justice, or
jobs—or simply preserving social cohesion
and human and institutional capacity—can
increase impact without increasing overall
cost. As described earlier, volatility greatly
reduces aid effectiveness and is twice as high
for fragile and conflict-affected countries as
for other developing countries, despite the

New directions for international support

REFLECTIONS FROM ADVISORY COUNCIL MEMBERS: 2011 WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT
B OX 9. 2

Flexible peacekeeping arrangements
Ramtane Lamamra, Commissioner for Peace and Security, African Union; WDR Advisory Council Member;
with Alain Le Roy, United Nations Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations
Societies trying to move away from violence face acute
problems of mistrust, uncertainty, and lack of conﬁdence in
the basic institutions of the state. The use of mediation and
peacekeeping as “commitment mechanisms,” as this Report
describes them, can help overcome these obstacles to settlement. It can also extend the authority of the state and
contribute to the establishment of the rule of law.
In this context, we welcome the messages in this Report
about the role that peacekeeping can play in helping states
move away from violence, which broadly accord with our
experience. The Report’s ﬁnding that the deployment of
international peacekeepers extends the duration of a political settlement accords with our experience. The conclusion
that it also contributes to positive economic growth reinforces the argument that development and security go
hand in hand. We also share the Report’s emphasis on the
importance of transforming national institutions into guarantors of security and prosperity in the long term.
In order to achieve these goals, peacekeeping needs to
be given the right capabilities. Although the African Union
and the United Nations have diﬀerent mandates and face
diﬀerent demands, we share the challenge of managing
peacekeeping operations deployed to diﬃcult areas, without the full range of capabilities needed to succeed. The
international community learned the hard way in the mid1990s the human and political costs of failing to equip
peacekeepers with the necessary resources to fulﬁll their
mandates. In some cases, this is a question of scale; in
others, quality or ﬂexibility. Far from the Cold War days of
static peacekeeping in buﬀer zones or alongside contested
borders, contemporary operations are dynamic, operate in

fragile countries’ greater need for persistence
in building social and state institutions. There
are options for reducing volatility (see box
9.3), including providing threshold amounts
of aid based on appropriate modalities, topping up aid allocations to the most fragile
states when specific types of programs have
demonstrated the ability to deliver effectively
and at scale (as proposed in a recent working paper by the Centre for Global Development),8 and dedicating a target percentage
of assistance to larger and longer-term programs in fragile and conflict-affected states
under the OECD-DAC (Development Assis-

politically complex environments, and often cover enormous
areas.
The UN and the African Union (AU) operate together in
Sudan and Somalia to try to meet such challenges. The important partnership between the two organizations is not without
complexity and controversy, but represents the shared determination to meet the immediate challenges we confront.
The WDR points to the fact that uncertainty and weak institutions that enable violence can endure in a society for several
decades, long after the traditional period of intensive peacekeeping. In too many cases, peacekeepers had to be recalled
when a brief period of recovery was followed by a relapse into
a new cycle of violence.
The dilemma here is that national authorities and international mandating bodies are often reluctant to contemplate
longer term peacekeeping engagements. More creative solutions must be found. These could include combinations of
long-term programs for security sector development and
reform, light monitoring, and over-the-horizon reinforcements.
Over-the-horizon arrangements have been used to good
eﬀect in the intensive phase of peacekeeping, for example,
with the European Union’s Operation Artemis in the Democratic Republic of Congo. If development and security indeed
march hand in hand, so too should peacekeeping and economic support to the process of transforming national institutions—including through joint programs, for example, on
security sector reform and in the management of natural
resources. We welcome the Report’s call for a deeper examination of the costs, beneﬁts, and possible arrangements for longer term security and political support to national actors seeking a more permanent shift away from the risk of violence.

tance Committee) framework. As outlined in
chapter 6, a 30 percent decrease in volatility
could deliver value of around US$30 million per annum to each fragile and conflictaffected state.

Track 3: Reducing external
stresses: New regional and
global action
Direct assistance to states needs to be complemented by action at a regional and global
level to reduce external stresses. The analysis
in this Report has consistently emphasized

281

282

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

REFLECTIONS FROM ADVISORY COUNCIL MEMBERS: 2011 WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT
B OX 9. 3

Preventing violence: Prioritizing investment in citizen security and justice reforms
Resolving the donor risk and results dilemma: Learning from the Tinbergen rule

Paul Collier, Professor of Economics and Director for the Centre for the Study of African Economies,
Oxford University; WDR Advisory Council Member
In allocating aid, donors currently consider two fundamental objectives: aid should follow need and aid should be
well-used. Unfortunately, in fragile states, these two objectives are commonly in conﬂict: needs are far greater than
elsewhere, but governments lack the capacity to spend aid
well. The result has often been that aid volumes oscillate
around an inadequate average as donors shift between
concern for need and concern for eﬀectiveness.
Jan Tinbergen, one of the most revered Nobel laureates,
formulated a simple principle which illuminates the donor
dilemma and points to a resolution. He showed that a given
number of objectives can be achieved only if there are at
least as many independent policy instruments. Donors have
been attempting to achieve two objectives, meeting need
and assuring eﬀectiveness, with a single instrument—the
volume of aid. Such an approach is doomed to failure: either
one of the objectives must be sacriﬁced or a second instrument must be introduced. Since clearly neither objective
can be abandoned, the implication is that donors must
develop another instrument.
That instrument is the modality for aid delivery:
modalities should vary according to the capacity of
government. While unconditional and unmonitored budget support or unhurried project investments are appropriate for secure and well-governed states, it is essential to
develop alternative mechanisms for channeling aid inﬂows
in fragile situations. New types of instruments are needed
and should recognise the spectrum of risk, from governments who are well-intentioned but face insecurity and
weak institutions, to those who are more abusive. Recurrent

expenditures can be supported, and indeed often need to be,
if governments are to regain legitimacy in the eyes of their
citizens, but should support actions linked to stabilization and
be provided only with additional oversight mechanisms which
track expenditures. Funds through government can be channeled directly to the local level and monitored through community reporting. Social service provision could be scaled up if
aid were channeled through public agencies outside the conventional civil service, co-supervised by government and third
parties such as civil society, and donors. The agencies could
fund clinics, schools, and public works run by churches, NGOs,
and local communities, in return for public accountability and
agreed standards of quality.
Tinbergen’s rule also says how objectives should be linked
to instruments. The donor dilemma can be resolved by linking
the objective of meeting needs to the volume of aid, and the
objective of using aid well to the choice of delivery modalities.
Fragile states need large volumes of aid, but aid delivery
should look very diﬀerent from contexts in which government
ministries are eﬀective. Spending money eﬀectively in fragile
states is not complicated: for example, community-driven
approaches, mission schools, and clinics have been operating
successfully in the most diﬃcult environments for many years.
The needs are manifestly greater than other environments and
so returns on aid can be commensurately higher. But to establish that those needs can indeed be met cost-eﬀectively and
build long-term institutional resilience, delivery modalities
that encourage experimentation, are evaluated for results, and
are adapted to respond quickly to experiences of success and
failure are required.

WDR Note: Additional approaches for reducing volatility
The Centre for Global Development proposes the scaling up of successful projects in fragile and conﬂictaﬀected states. As outlined in Gelb 2010, this would involve timely monitoring, full transparency, and independent evaluation of projects. Projects that demonstrate early results could then draw upon additional
ﬁnancing through a special multi-donor trust fund designated as a tranche for scaling up. By reducing the
length of the feedback loop in project monitoring and evaluation, this approach would align incentives for
those delivering aid and those receiving aid and reward successes early in the project cycle, making this
approach wholly compatible with output-based aid.
OECD–DAC commitments. A further possibility is to explore a commitment under the OECD-DAC framework for a percentage of aid programs to go into long-term, larger scale support. There is a value to small,
rapid interventions in fragile situations, and it would not be desirable to lose the ﬂexibility to provide this type
of assistance. But the percentage of aid currently in small, fragmented, and short-term assistance appears to
be too high (see chapter 6) to beneﬁt long-term institution-building. The Accra Agenda commits donors to
developing long-term modalities to support the building of “capable, accountable, and responsive states.”

New directions for international support

the role of external stresses in increasing the
risks of violence, and it is therefore important that the recommendations for action do
not ignore this important area. Firm, practical, and coordinated action can diminish
the external stresses that hinder stability in
the short and long term. And support can be
increased to develop regional and international “buffers” to absorb and mitigate these
stresses. Analysis for this Report suggests
three areas for such action: cross-border cooperation, strengthening action against the
trafficking and illicit financial flows that can
fuel violence, and protecting fragile states
from food and resource shocks.

Cross-border goods: Development,
security, and administrative pooling
Support for regional goods is underresourced.
In recognition of the importance of external
stresses for violence, donors could increase
the proportion of their financial and technical
support going to cross-border development
programming and regional infrastructure, as
well as for various forms of regional administrative and economic cooperation—giving
priority to violence-affected regions. Such
support could take the following forms:
• Trade and transit infrastructure. Numerous conflict and violence-affected regions face obvious gaps in the infrastructure for trade between producer and
consumer areas and for ports and airports. They include large regions, such as
Central Africa and Central Asia, but also
smaller subnational areas that have little
access to trade, such as the northeastern
states of India. Where infrastructure is
constructed in violence-affected areas,
care should be taken to use labor-intensive
technologies and provide for local labor
to avoid tensions over the benefits. In
some regions, discussions about shared
economic infrastructure with joint benefits could also create an opening for later
political or security discussions. In most
cases, some simple policy reforms need to
be undertaken in parallel as these can be

as great a constraint to cross-border trade
as lack of infrastructure.
• Cross-border development programming. Many insecure border areas share
similar social and economic structures,
in which a shared terrain, ethnicity, or
history creates natural bonds. Yet very
few countries take advantage of this to
share lessons for development programming on both sides of insecure border
areas. Community-driven development
programs, for example, are likely to face
similar strengths and weaknesses in community organization, as is the private
sector. Development sectors like health,
which has regional and international
public-good aspects, can be a noncontentious form of cross-border cooperation.
Cross-border development programming
could simply involve special arrangements
to share lessons, or it could in some cases
move toward formal joint arrangements
to design and monitor programs.
• Regional security support. Although violence frequently crosses borders, international responses remain largely within
them. Two approaches that have been piloted warrant further consideration: regional political missions—including UN
offices in Africa and Central Asia, the latter
of which has a mandate for preventive
diplomacy linked to border and customs
management and counter-trafficking initiatives. A second is regional initiatives for
counter-trafficking, such as the joint UN/
ECOWAS (Economic Community of West
African States) West African Coast Initiative on organized crime.
• Shared regional technical and administrative capacity. As chapter 7 noted, pooling subregional administrative capacities
can allow states to develop institutional
capabilities they could not manage on
their own. There are a range of initiatives
that could be undertaken in this area, depending on regional needs—from programs that deliver the specialized assistance for reform of security and justice

283

284

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

sectors and multisectoral community
programs at a regional level, to pooled
administrative capacity to address skills
and training for youth, as with shared
university facilities.

ruption issues, such as the International Corruption Hunter’s Alliance and the Stolen Asset Recovery Initiative (STAR), three measures
would help in this effort to reduce violence
and the illicit financial flows that support it:

Rather than these somewhat incremental approaches to specific cross-border initiatives, international donors could take a
larger step to finance regional approaches.
The principle of such an initiative would be
to build on the local political knowledge and
legitimacy of regional institutions, in combination with the technical and financial capacity of global agencies. Delivered through
regional institutions in collaboration with
global agencies, this approach could adapt
lessons from initiatives that have already successfully pooled developed shared regional
capacity, such as justice in the Caribbean.9
It could also draw lessons from existing
cross-border cooperation, such as the Greater
Mekong Subregion, West Africa’s initiatives
on trafficking and economic integration, and
the European Union’s programs for previously conflict-affected border regions.10 It
would support political initiatives of regional
institutions (such as the African Union Border Programme11 and ASEAN’s subregional
initiatives) with financial and technical expertise from global partners. Well designed, the
expansion of such regional initiatives would
also have the advantage of protecting activities from some of the aid volatility caused by
fluctuations in national governance.

• Strengthening the capacity to conduct
strategic analysis of these flows in key
countries with the majority of global financial transfers. About a dozen financial
intelligence units in major financial markets or hubs have the integrity, independence, and technical capacity to conduct
such analysis. Concerted efforts to analyze
suspicious flows and exchange information could greatly increase their ability to
detect illicit financial flows.

Stemming the trafficking and illicit
financial flows that can fuel violence
Follow the money: at the heart of action
against the illegal trafficking of drugs and natural resources is tracking illicit financial flows.
For areas seriously affected by illegal trafficking and corruption, such as Central America
or West Africa, most countries have nothing
approaching the national capacity needed to
gather and process information on financial
transactions or to investigate and prosecute
offenders. Along with initiatives that help to
support a global community to address cor-

• Global financial centers could increase
the openness of information provision
and their cooperation with stolen asset
recovery processes. As part of this effort,
global financial institutions could perform
strategic analysis and make it available to
countries affected. To respect privacy, this
analysis could be based on shifts in aggregate flows rather than individual account
information. The analytical tools exist, as
chapter 7 describes for Australia’s analysis
of illicit flows generated by corruption or
money-laundering. But these approaches
have not yet been applied globally.
• Developed states and financial centers
could commit to ensuring that investing
the proceeds from corruption in their
countries is a violation of their antimoney-laundering laws. As part of this
commitment, they could also step up
their cooperation with law enforcement
authorities in fragile states. This would
build on recent precedents for joint and
parallel investigations, such as those between the United Kingdom and Nigeria,
and the United States and Haiti, described
in chapter 8.12
Mechanisms to coordinate the international spillovers of domestic policies are
crucial. Spillovers from successful action
against illegal trafficking in one country can

New directions for international support

affect another—Colombia’s actions against
drug cartels have had ripple effects across
Central America, Mexico, and even West
Africa.13 Similar effects can pertain to other
commodities: a ban or restraints on logging
in one country, for example, will increase
demand in other countries that do not have
similar policies. Without limiting sovereign
decisions, a platform for dialogue between
countries would help governments identify
potential impacts in advance, debate costs
and benefits at a regional level, and consider
options to coordinate policy or take action
to mitigate impacts in countries affected by
the decisions of others. Regional institutions
could lead such a dialogue, as could a global
agency such as UNODC.
Joint efforts on trafficking in natural resources can also produce more effective action. The new Natural Resource Charter is
an effective way to build on earlier initiatives,
such as the Kimberley Process and the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative,
by focusing on widespread communications
and citizen pressure.14 International market
regulatory requirements are another form
of consumer country action to combat trafficking. In timber, these schemes include certification requirements in the United States
under the Lacey Act, European procurement
policies that require government agencies
to purchase only verifiably legal timber, and
forthcoming EU due diligence regulations
involving bilateral cooperation with select
producer countries. Such market requirement systems could be strengthened by
information-sharing arrangements between
enforcement in producer and consumer
countries to assist consumer countries in
acting against suspect shipments. Consumer
nations and international actors should also
provide additional assistance to build capacity within producer nations to implement
effective chain-of-custody systems that keep
illegally sourced commodities out of the supply chain.
Forging a new sense of co-responsibility
for countering trafficking would also produce
better analysis of options. For example, there

would be value in joint efforts between producing and consuming countries to understand the implications of current debates on
combining demand-side options on drugs, including legalization, with supply-side enforcement. This would require in-depth analysis of
the health, social, and economic implications
of legalized drug use under different regulatory regimes, as well as trends in consumption
patterns. It would also require analysis of the
systems to regulate and control drugs that become legal and to ensure enforcement where
drugs remain illegal.

New action to protect fragile states from
food insecurity and resource shocks
Knowledge about the impacts of food, energy,
and resource shocks is limited. Rising global
demand for food and energy may impact
fragile and violence-affected states severely.
New analytical efforts are an important first
step in understanding this phenomenon.
One forward step would be for the relevant
agencies—the World Bank, UN Energy Programme, International Energy Agency, and
others—to work together on a World Resources Outlook, bringing together the multiple reports and analysis already undertaken
by these agencies independently.15 Such a report could give policy makers the valuable integrated analysis they currently lack. It could
examine the state of scientific knowledge
about the availability of key resources, including oil, food, water, and potentially land,
together with how climate change will affect
each of them; the economic dimensions of resource availability, including the risk of price
spikes, inflationary trends, and how resource
prices interact with wider trends in the international economy; and vulnerability to scarcity trends among poor people and regions
affected by violence. Without such analysis,
the risk of unintended consequences from
policy may remain unaddressed—as with biofuels, where the possible food security implications of measures to promote energy security were inadequately considered.

285

286

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

For fragile states unable to support comprehensive food security initiatives, best-fit
options may be desirable. A reliable global
food stock system would be ideal, but a
smaller independent emergency reserve—
managed regionally—could bridge the lags in
food aid response. Held in existing national
storage facilities at strategic locations, such
a reserve could allow for rapid response. An
example is the East Asia Emergency Rice Reserve program established by the 10 ASEAN
Member States, China, Japan, and the Republic of Korea, to provide food assistance
and strengthen food security in emergencies
and for poverty alleviation.16
Effective early warning schemes can also
be a second-best approach to addressing food
insecurity. While reducing the likelihood and
impact of food price shocks would be a first
best option, effective early warning systems
on food and agriculture can be put in place
to identify, assess, and monitor the evolution of conflict risks and food security levels,
especially in fragile countries. Examples of
early warning systems that use satellite data
to anticipate crop failure and food shortages
are the UN-sponsored Global Information
and Early Warning System,17 which aims at
improving food-security response planning
in 22 drought-prone African countries, and
the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID)–sponsored Famine
Early Warning System Network,18 which
monitors food supply and demand in all
countries with emphasis on 80 low-income
food deficit nations.
International trading systems should protect fragile states from the pressure of international resource competition in the search
for land or energy. Initiatives addressing
these issues, such as the Extractive Industry
Transparency Initiative (EITI), the Equator
Principles,19 and the Santiago Principles,20
have formulated standards to guide engagement in certain sectors, and many institutions and large enterprises have produced
guidelines of their own. But broader efforts to
build on such ongoing private initiatives are
needed. In large-scale agro-investing, where

no industry agreement has been reached on
self-regulation, the World Bank and the UN
Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO),
the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), the UN Conference on
Trade and Development (UNCTAD), and
other partners have recently formulated
a set of principles for responsible agroinvestment that stress respect for land and
resource rights; food security; transparency;
good governance; a proper enabling environment; consultation and participation; and
social and environmental sustainability (see
box 7.9).21
Ahead of potential new impacts from climate change, international support could be
provided to subregions where fragile countries share river boundaries. Depending on
the circumstances, this effort could encompass a shift from agreements based on precise volume to agreements based on percentages, to account for the potential impact of
reduced flow, and to agreements based on
sharing the benefits from expanded development of river basins that benefit all riparians,
as well as new agreements where none exist.
Efforts to foster cross-border or subregional
water management arrangements can ease
regional tensions even if climate impacts do
not end up affecting flow rates.

Track 4: Marshaling support from
lower-, middle-, and higher-income
countries and from global and
regional institutions
The landscape of international assistance in
fragile and violence-affected countries has
changed in the last 20 years, with more aid
and policy input from middle-income countries with a history of solidarity support.
Several regional institutions are also playing
a greater role in security and development
issues. Yet discussions of global conflict and
violence, the norms of responsible leadership
to respond to them, and the shape of international assistance have been driven more by
northern than southern actors. The Interna-

New directions for international support

tional Dialogue on Peacebuilding and Statebuilding has been created to help address this
deficit. The WDR process has also conducted
wide-ranging consultations with violenceaffected lower- and middle-income countries, regional policy makers, and regional
institutions, as well as with traditional donor
partners. It found many areas of agreement—
the focus on institution-building and governance and on citizen security, justice, and
jobs—but also some areas of difference.
WDR consultations frequently revealed
divided views among national actors, regional bodies, middle-income countries, and
OECD actors over what is realistic to expect
from national leadership in improving governance, over what time period, and over
the “forms” versus the “functions” of good
governance (for example, elections versus
broader democratic practices and processes,
and minimizing corruption in practice versus establishing procurement laws and anticorruption commissions).
Perceived double standards were also criticized by WDR interlocutors, who reflected
a sentiment that donor countries and organizations that have faced their own internal
governance challenges could approach shortcomings in fragile developing states with
more humility. Developed countries are not
immune to corruption, bribery, human rights
abuses, or failures to account adequately for
public finances. Thus, effective implementation of standards of good governance is also
a challenge in advanced countries, even more
so when the international community has
played an executive government or security
role in violence-affected areas.
Lack of concerted support for the norms
of responsible leadership is a concern, because progress in global norms is crucial for
reducing the risk of violence. Regional and
global standards, as well as recognition and
sanction mechanisms in constitutionality,
human rights, and corruption, have provided support and incentives for national
leadership, particularly where the capacity
of the domestic system to provide rewards
and accountability is weak. Human rights

standards, for example, have been important
reference points for reformers that led efforts
to transform authoritarian military regimes
in many regions toward more accountable
systems, with benefits for citizen security and
broader development. The Lomé Declaration in 2000, establishing African standards
and a regional response mechanism to unconstitutional changes in government, has, as
described earlier, underpinned a significant
decrease in coups since the 1990s and strong
continental action to uphold constitutional
government.22
Modest actions that could strengthen
collaboration among higher-, middle-, and
lower-income countries on shared problems
of violence and development, both global
and local, are as follows:
• Increase both South-South and SouthNorth exchanges on violence prevention.
South-South exchanges have enormous
potential to provide relevant capacity and
lessons in current fragile and violenceaffected situations.23 Lower- and middleincome countries that have gone through
their own recent experiences of transition
have much to offer to their counterparts—
as demonstrated in this Report, where
Latin American countries offered perspectives on urban violence prevention and
security and justice reforms, China on job
creation, India on local public works and
democratic practices, Southeast Asian and
African countries on community-driven
development in conflict areas. Yet, SouthNorth exchanges are also important. While
institutional capacities differ, many Northern and Southern countries, provinces,
and cities face some similar stresses. Program approaches—such as addressing
trafficking, reintegrating ex-gang members and disengaged young people, and
fostering tolerance and social bonds among
communities that are ethnically or religiously divided—will have lessons relevant
for others. Such exchanges would increase
understanding that the challenges of violence are not unique to developing coun-

287

288

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

tries and that developing countries are not
alone in struggling to find solutions.
• Better align international assistance behind regional governance efforts. When
regional institutions take the initiative,
as with the African Union (AU) on constitutionality, they have great comparative
advantage in traction with their member
states. The potential convening role of regional institutions was also widely recognized in WDR consultations by higher-,
middle-, and lower-income country interlocutors alike (see box 9.4). Supporting
regional platforms to discuss the application of governance norms is an effective
way to increase ownership. Adopting
clearer structures to discuss responses to
major improvements or deteriorations in
governance (such as coups d’états) among
bilateral and multilateral actors would
also improve information-sharing and
the potential for coordinated responses
without creating unacceptable binding
obligations on international actors.24
• Expand initiatives to recognize responsible leadership. While there is always a
role for frank and transparent criticism,
approaches from the North that are seen
as disproportionately focused on criticism in fragile situations can be divisive.
Initiatives, such as the Ibrahim Prize for
African leadership, could be emulated to
recognize leaders in different roles (for
example, ministers who have a lasting impact on corruption or military leaders
who implement successful security-sector
reform). Multistakeholder initiatives,
such as the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, could consider provisions to recognize individual leaders or
leadership teams who have improved the
transparency of resource revenues and
expenditures, whether in governments,
civil society, or companies.
More focused and realistic expectations
built into the timetables for governance
improvements would also help bridge gaps

in perspectives among countries receiving
international assistance, their middle- and
higher-income international partners, and
global and regional institutions. This is particularly crucial in the light of recent social
protests that demonstrate strong grievances
and expectations over governance change—
that were not picked up by standard analyses
of security and of development progress. The
indicators described in chapter 8 aim to address this deficit through a focus on whether
countries are on track to make institutional
and governance improvements within the realistic generational time frames that the faster
reformers have achieved, and how citizens
perceive trends in the legitimacy and performance of national institutions across the political security and development domains.
These would be a simple way, as Louise Arbour suggests in box 9.4, to compare
progress, stagnation, or deterioration. Ensuring that such indicators measure outcomes
rather than just the form of institutions
(laws passed, anti-corruption commissions
formed) is also important to ensure that they
encourage rather than suppress innovative
national action and that they foster learning among low-, middle-, and high-income
country institutions. The UN Peacebuilding
Commission—which brings together fragile
states, donors, troop-contributing countries,
and regional bodies—has unexploited potential to advise on realistic timelines.

A continuing global learning
platform
This Report draws together many rich strands
of existing research on security and development, adding to them through new quantitative and qualitative work. But its preparation
has made clear the gaps in knowledge—from
evolving issues such as the links between organized crime and political violence, glaringly underresearched, to the lack of firm
conceptual models and testing of the processes of institutional transformation, and to
the absence of evaluation data on key policy

New directions for international support

REFLECTIONS FROM ADVISORY COUNCIL MEMBERS: 2011 WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT
B OX 9. 4

The role of regional institutions and initiatives in norm-setting and violence prevention
Reaﬃrming consensus on international norms and standards—The role of regional organizations

Louise Arbour, President, International Crisis Group; former UN High Commissioner for Human Rights;
WDR Advisory Council Member
Whether based on universal values, such as the sanctity of
human life, or on international legal rules, there are some
universally accepted norms—reﬂected in the Charter of the
United Nations and other international instruments.
These norms are not self-implementing, and because
they include the right to cultural diversity, their interpretation must reﬂect local, national, and regional diversity. The
resistance to the exportation of “Western values” might be
no more than the rejection of a foreign way of expressing a
particular norm, rather than a rejection of the norm itself.
Regional institutions can bridge the distance between
universal norms and local customs. Those customs or practices must conform, in substance, to the core international
principles from which the international community derives
its cohesion. Otherwise, cultural diversity can simply override, and undermine, the international framework.

and program options, such as justice and employment interventions. Priorities for future
research and policy work are as follows:
• Filling gaps in data. There are gaps in the
data on violence (particularly criminal violence) and on citizen trust in national institutions. Other variables to fully test conceptual models and evaluate policy options
are also missing. Priorities for following up
on the WDR’s work would be spending on
criminal justice systems, institutional performance indicators of capacity and accountability in security and criminal justice systems, and employment data.
• Testing conceptual models. The WDR
has put forward hypotheses drawn from
regional and country consultations that
are consistent with available cross-country
data or qualitative case analysis. All would
benefit from further testing and research
to identify detailed pathways of successful
reform and reasons for failure. They include the importance of national institu-

In the justice sector, for instance, uniformity of institutional
models and procedures may obscure radical diﬀerences in
the actual delivery of justice. But the adjudication of disputes
based on principles of fairness, impartiality, transparency, integrity, compassion, and ultimately accountability can take
many forms.
In their assistance to development, international actors
must resist the exportation of form over substance, and accept
the regionalization of norms that enhance, rather than impede,
their true universal character. In the same spirit, regional actors
must translate, in a culturally relevant way, international norms
and repudiate nonconforming practices.
And all must concede that the standards set by universal
norms are aspirations. Measures of performance should reﬂect
either progress, stagnation, or regression in a given country,
toward a common, universal ideal.

tional transformation and governance
outcomes for sustained violence prevention; confidence-building as a prelude to
wider institutional transformation; the
characteristics of inclusive-enough coalitions for reform in fragile situations; how
these are adapted or consolidated over
multiple transitions; and the design and
benefits of early institutional action on
citizen security, justice, and jobs. As discussed in chapter 2 (box 2.5), more research is needed on the link between employment and violence prevention.
• Evaluating policy and program options.
There is also a dearth of impact evaluations
on the relationship between specific policy
and program interventions and security
outcomes. At a macropolicy level, the costs
and benefits of second-best reforms in situations of insecurity and weak institutions
merit further attention—as do the sequence of reforms to increase revenues and
expand government expenditures and the

289

290

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

costs and benefits of regional integration.
At the program level, evaluating the importance of rapid development results and
of integrated security-development approaches would greatly assist policy makers. A focused evaluation agenda to analyze
the impact of programmatic interventions
to address unemployment in situations of
conflict or rising violence would also contribute to a more proactive international
approach to job creation, including the
role of private sector development. Analysis of the economic costs and benefits of
flexible peacekeeping options, as suggested
by Commissioner Lamamra and UnderSecretary-General Le Roy, can inform future policy developments.25
• Tracking the evolving impacts of new
phenomena, including rapidly increasing
demand for energy and scarce resource
supplies, as well as climate change, on
areas at risk of violence.
The future research agenda is rich indeed,26
and a strong network of public agencies, think
tanks, universities, and NGOs could productively collaborate in tackling it. A shared collaborative platform for knowledge on violence, fragility, and development would also
have the advantage of drawing together work
led by the political and social sciences, including economics, and by the political, security,
humanitarian, and development agencies in
this most interdisciplinary of areas. Such a
platform could foster research by institutes
in fragile and conflict-affected states and in
middle-income countries that have experienced violence, thus helping to produce the
kind of lessons and learning highlighted here,
as well as informing a new consensus on critical norms and their adaptation to national
contexts. This platform can also draw from
a new research initiative, “Democratizing
Development Economics,” from the research
group at the World Bank, which promotes
“Open Data, Open Knowledge, and Open
Solutions” to support South-South learning
and collaborative research on common challenges and solutions.27

A compelling agenda for action
Can the international community help build
resilience in countries facing repeated or new
threats? Significant areas—North Africa and
the Middle East; Central Africa, the Horn of
Africa, and West Africa; Southwest and Central Asia; and Central America—currently face
risks of new or repeated cycles of violence. Will
the international community be able to help,
not just to halt one acute episode, but reduce
the risk of continuing cycles? Business as usual
is unlikely to deliver sustained results. What is
needed is a renewed consensus among international actors in their dialogue with national
leaders, based on expectations that are both
principled and realistic. Supporting this consensus at a practical level will require focused
and timely assistance to institutions that can
help prevent an escalation of violence. It will
also require a willingness to try new ways of
doing business in humanitarian, development, security, and mediation assistance in
order to help build national institutional legitimacy. And it will require decisive action to
prevent stresses outside these countries from
overwhelming fragile progress.
All the recommendations of this Report
have at their heart the concept of shared
global risk. Risks are evolving, with new
threats to stability arising from international
organized crime and global economic instability. The landscape of international power
relations is also changing, as lower- and
middle-income countries increase their share
of global economic influence and their contributions to global policy thinking. A fundamental rethink is needed on the approaches
of international actors to manage global risks
collectively—and as equal partners.
The recommendations are not easy to
implement. They require clear political leadership from both developed and developing
countries and sustained attention to change
in bilateral development agencies and multilateral institutions. Real change will require a
strong rationale for political leadership. But
a dual rationale exists: fragility and violence
are major obstacles to development, and are

New directions for international support

no longer confined to poor and remote areas or cityscapes. This decade has seen the
increasing penetration of instability in global
life—in terrorism, an expanding drug trade,

and the rising numbers of internationally
mobile refugees. Breaking cycles of repeated
violence is thus a shared challenge demanding urgent action.

Notes
1. Stewart and Brown 2007.
2. Ojielo 2007; Odendaal 2010; UNDPA 2010a.
3. Following an extensive study carried out by the Office of the High Representative (the chief civilian peace implementation agency in Bosnia and Herzegovina) at the request of the Peace Implementation Council, the coordinating structure of the International Community in Bosnia and
Herzegovina was “streamlined” in 2002 to eliminate overlapping effort and responsibilities and
increase effectiveness. As part of this process a Board of Principals was established under the chairmanship of the High Representative to serve as the main coordinating body for international community activity in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Board of Principals meets once a week in Sarajevo and is attended by Office of the High Representative, NATO-led military Stabilisation Force
(SFOR), Office of Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), European Union Police Mission,
UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), European Commission, the World Bank, the
International Monetary Fund (IMF), and the UN Development Programme (UNDP). See Office
of the High Representative and European Union Special Representative 2011.
4. Recognizing the public-good benefits of some types of security assistance, as the OECD-DAC
is considering by providing a separate channel for reporting assistance in these areas, could also
help.
5. g7+ is an open grouping of low-income countries experiencing conflict and fragility. It was established in 2008 and comprises the following countries: Afghanistan, Burundi, the Central African
Republic, Chad, Côte d’Ivoire, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Haiti, Liberia, Nepal, the Solomon Islands, Sierra Leone, South Sudan, and Timor-Leste.
6. A practical example of this type of shift is Ethiopia in 2005, when government and donors agreed
to move from regular budget support to a program of transfers to local and municipal governments. The program included measures to ensure that all regions of the country, irrespective of
how they had voted in elections, received continuing central government support.
7. The WDR team, in conjunction with Mobile Accord and with generous donations of SMS (short
message service) by Vodacom Congo, carried out a geo-polling project known as DRC Speaks!
The project utilized cell phone technology to conduct the survey. Using SMS through cell phones,
the project allowed more than 140,000 Congolese to share, without any filters, their thoughts,
feelings, and concerns. See section on monitoring progress out of fragility in chapter 6 for more
information.
8. Gelb 2010.
9. See Favaro 2010.
10. For the Greater Mekong Subregion, see World Bank 2006d; the section on regional stresses and
support in chapter 7. For West Africa, see Favaro 2008, 2010; box 7.10 in chapter 7. For the European border region, see Greta and Lewandowski 2010; Otocan 2010; Council of Europe 1995;
Council of Europe and Institute of International Sociology of Gorizia 2003; Bilcik and others
2000; box 7.11 in chapter 7.
11. For the African Union Border Programme Cooperation, see African Union 2007a.
12. See Messick 2011; box 8.4 in chapter 8.
13. See Arboleda 2010; UNODC 2010a; WDR team consultations with government officials, civil society
representatives, and security personnel in Colombia, 2010; feature, chapter 3.
14. The Natural Resource Charter is a set of common principles and a practical step-by-step guide for
escaping the “resource curse.” It has no political heritage or sponsorships and was prepared by an
independent group of global experts on economically sustainable resource extraction, assembled
by Paul Collier, Director of the Centre for the Study of African Economies at Oxford University. The
charter aims to foster coordination, both along the decision chain from exploration to expenditure,
and among the international actors and stakeholders, by providing a unifying and overarching

291

292

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

15.
16.
17.
18.
19.

20.

21.
22.
23.

24.

25.

framework for action. It provides the tools and knowledge base necessary to avoid the mismanagement of these diminishing riches and ensure they bring lasting benefit. The charter consists
of 12 precepts, detailing the broad princi-ples, specific recommendations, and practical guidance. It is also an information toolkit to guide governments and societies in their use of natural
resources so that the opportunities they provide are seized in a way that results in maximum and
sustained benefits for citizens. The charter provides a clearinghouse for the collation and dissemination of information and best practice in the governance and management of resource-rich
economies. More information on the charter can be found at their website: http://www.natural
resourcecharter.org/.
Evans 2010.
Brinkman and Hendrix 2010; Bora and others 2010.
FAO 2010.
USAID Famine Early Warning Systems Network 2010.
The Equator Principles (EPs) are a voluntary set of standards for determining, assessing, and
managing social and environmental risk in project financing. The EPs are considered the financial industry “gold standard” for sustainable project finance and are based on the International
Finance Corporation (IFC) performance standards on social and environmental sustainability
and on the World Bank’s Environmental, Health and Safety General Guidelines. The principles are
intended to serve as a common baseline and framework for the implementation by each adopting institution of its own internal social and environmental policies, procedures, and standards
related to its project financing activities. These principles do not create any rights in, or liability
to, any person, public or private, and institutions adopt and implement the EPs without reliance
on or recourse to IFC or the World Bank. The Equator Principles can be found in full at http://
www.equator-principles.com/documents/Equator_Principles.pdf.
The Santiago Principles were developed in 2008 by the International Working Group of Sovereign
Wealth Funds (SWFs) and represent a collaborative effort by advanced, emerging, and developing
country economies to set out a comprehensive framework of 24 voluntary “best practices” guidelines, aiming to provide a clearer understanding of the operations of SWFs. Their adoption on
a voluntary basis signals strong commitment to the principles, and their implementation should
further enhance the stabilizing role played by SWFs in the financial markets, and help maintain the
free flow of cross-border investment. To date, 23 countries are members. For more information,
visit the International Working Group of Sovereign Wealth Funds website: http://www.iwg-swf
.org.
FAO and others 2010.
See Organization of African Unity 2000. Also see the section titled “Interstate and civil wars have
declined since peaking in the early1990s” in chapter 1.
Of the different forms that South-South cooperation has taken, technical assistance has been
the most common. Although many technical assistance projects focus on economic and social
development, countries in the Global South have also developed specialized capacities in postconflict peacebuilding. Examples include South Africa’s support to build structural capacities for
public service through peer learning among public sector schools (Management Development
Institutes) at the Ministries for Public Administration in Burundi, Rwanda, and Southern Sudan,
all countries that have emerged from violent conflict. Cooperation among 45 municipalities in El
Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras helps to manage regional public goods such as water in the
Trifinio region. In Trifinio, regional South-South cooperation has transformed a zone of tensions
(no-man’s armed borders) into a zone of integration and development. See OECD 2010f.
The view of the African Union with respect to West African countries that have recently experienced coups d’états was that donor support to social programs and poverty reduction programs
should continue in these countries, but that larger scale support should be paced to support the
return to a “constitutional path.” In practice, donors were divided between those that suspended
assistance completely and those that continued assistance with no change (WDR team consultation with officials in African Union in Addis Ababa, 2010).
An example of recent advances in evaluation in fragile states includes the new Development
Impact Evaluation (DIME) Initiative, which focuses on questions of legitimacy and utilization of
public institutions, public service delivery, local collective action, social capital, and trust in elected
officials in projects in Aceh (Indonesia), Afghanistan, Angola, Central African Republic, Cambodia, and Guinea.

New directions for international support

26. This report complements research forthcoming in 2011, including a second issue of the Global
Burden of Armed Violence from the Geneva Declaration, the next volume of the Human Security
Report published as this report went to press, and the forthcoming Oxford Handbook of the Economics of Peace and Conflict.
27. Zoellick 2010a.

293

Bibliographical Note

This report draws on a wide range of World Bank documents and on numerous outside
sources. Background analysis was contributed by: Beatriz Abizanda, Aga Khan Development
Network, Nathalie Alvarado, Sanam Naraghi-Anderlini, Matthew Andrews, Jairo Arboleda,
Paul Arthur, Claus Astrup, Alexandra Avdeenko, Kathryn Bach, Mark Baird, Patrick
Barron, Peter Bartu, Christina Biebesheimer, Arthur G. Blundell, Morten Bøås, Saswati
Bora, James Boyce, Henk-Jan Brinkman, Tilman Brück, Rex Brynen, Iride Ceccacci, Brian
Center, Pinki Chaudhuri, Asger Christensen, James Cockayne, Tara Cooper, Maria C.
Correia, David Craig, Christopher Cramer, Martha Crenshaw, Olivia D’Aoust, Victor A.B.
Davies, Pablo de Greiff, Alex de Waal, Dimitri F. De Pues, Frauke de Weijer, Christopher
Delgado, Gabriel Demombynes, Deval Desai, Peter Dewees, Sinclair Dinnen, Le Dang Doanh,
Barry Eichengreen, Gregory Ellis, Sundstøl Eriksen, FAFO, Alexander Evans, Doug Farah,
Edgardo Favaro, James D. Fearon, Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Finland, Hedda Flatø,
Shepard Forman, Paul Francis, Anthony Gambino, Esther Garcia, Scott Gates, Alan Gelb,
Luigi Giovine, Blair Glencorse, Jack A. Goldstone, Margarita Puerto Gomez, Sonja Grimm,
Jean-Marie Guehenno, Scott Guggenheim, Debarati Guha-Sapir, Paul-Simon Handy, Bernard
Harborne, Niels Harild, Emily Harwell, Håvard Hegre, Cullen S. Hendrix, Anke Hoeffler, Karla
Hoff, Richard Horsey, Fabrice Houdart, Yasheng Huang, Elisabeth Huybens, Inter-American
Development Bank, Syeda S. Ijaz, Horst Intscher, Kremena Ionkova, Michael Jacobson, Prashant
Jha, Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), Michael Johnston, Patricia Justino,
Tarcisius Kabutaulaka, Gilbert Khadaglia, Anne Kielland, Robert Krech, Christof P. Kurz,
Sarah Laughton, Constantino Lluch, Norman V. Loayza, Clare Lockhart, Megumi Makisaka,
Alexandre Marc, Keith Martin, Omar McDoom, Mike McGovern, John-Andrew McNeish,
Pratap Bhanu Mehta, Kenneth Menkhaus, Richard Messick, Ministry of Rural Development
of India, Nadir Mohammed, Hannah Nielsen, Håvard Mokleiv Nygård, OECD International
Network on Conflict and Fragility (OECD/INCAF), David Pearce, Mary Porter Peschka,
Nicola Pontara, Douglas Porter, Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Portugal, Monroe Price, Habib
Rab, Clionadh Raleigh, Martha Ramirez, Anne Sofie Roald, Esther Rojas-Garcia, Paula Roque,
Narve Rotwitt, Caroline Sage, Yezid Sayigh, Mark Schneider, Richard Scobey, Jake Sherman,
Sylvana Q. Sinha, Judy Smith-Höhn, Joanna Spear, Anna Spenceley, Radhika Srinivasan,
Frances Stewart, Håvard Strand, Scott Straus, Nicole Stremlau, Naotaka Sugawara, Deepak
Thapa, Åge Tiltnes, Monica Toft, Robert Townsend, Bakary Fouraba Traore, Keiichi Tsunekawa,
the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations Department of
Peacekeeping Operations (UNDPKO), the United Nations Department of Political Affairs
(UNDPA), Bernice van Bronkhorst, Philip Verwimp, Joaquin Villalobos, Sarah von Billerbeck,
Henriette von Kaltenborn-Stachau, Barbara F. Walter, Jusuf Wanandi, Xueli Wang, Clay Wescott,
Teresa Whitfield, Alys Willman, Michael Woolcock, Michael Wyganowski, Kohei Yoshida.
Background papers for the Report are available either on the World Wide Web at
www.worldbank.org/wdr2011 or through the World Development Report office. The views
expressed in these papers are not necessarily those of the World Bank or of this Report.

295

296

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

Many people inside and outside the World Bank gave comments to the team. Valuable comments, guidance, and contributions were provided by Patricio Abinales, Ségolène Adam, James
W. Adams, Douglas Addison, Ozong Agborsangaya-Fiteu, Sanjeev S. Ahluwalia, Ahmad Ahsan,
Bryant Allen, Noro Andriamihaja, Edward Aspinall, Laura Bailey, Bill Battaile, Ferid Belhaj,
Eric Bell, Christina Biebesheimer, Anna Bjerde, Brian Blankespoor, Chris Blattman, Edith H.
Bowles, Mike Bourke, Sean Bradley, Cynthia Brady, Anne Brown, Gillie Brown, Colin Bruce,
Paola Buendia, Roisín de Burca, William Byrd, Charles Call, Otaviano Canuto, Michael Carnahan, Francis Carneiro, Paloma Anos Casero, Mukesh Chawla, Judy Cheng-Hopkins, Fantu
Cheru, Punam Chuhan-Pole, Laurence Clarke, Kevin Clements, Cybèle Cochran, Colombia’s
Departamento Nacional de Planeación (DNP), Daniele Conversi, Louise Cord, Pamela Cox,
Jeff Crisp, Geoffrey Dabelko, Beth Daponte, Monica Das Gupta, Elisabeth David, Martin David,
John Davidson, Scott Dawson, Shanta Devarajan, James Dobbins, Joost Draaisma, Gregory
Keith Ellis, Ibrahim Elbadawi, Obiageli Kathryn Ezekweli, Kene Ezemenari, Judith Fagalasuu,
Oscar Fernandez-Taranco, Ezzedine Choukri Fishere, Cyprian F. Fisiy, Ariel Fiszbein, Robert L.
Floyd, Verena Fritz, Francis Fukuyama, Ivor Fung, Varun Gauri, Madhur Gautam, Germany’s
Deutscher Gesellschaft für Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ), Coralie Gevers, Indermit S.
Gill, Chiara Giorgetti, Giorgia Giovannetti, Edward Girardet, Jack Goldstone, Kelly Greenhill, Pablo de Greiff, Scott E. Guggenheim, Tobias Haque, Bernard Harborne, David Harland,
Jenny Hedman, Joel Hellman, Bert Hofman, Virginia Horscroft, Elisabeth Huybens, Elena
Ianchovichina, Patchamuthu Illangovan, Sana Jaffrey, Martin Jelsma, Emmanuel E. Jimenez,
Hilde Johnson, Mary Judd, Sima Kanaan, Alma Kanani, Phil Keefer, Caroline M. Kende-Robb,
Homi Kharas, Young Chul Kim, Mark Kleiman, Steve Knack, Sahr Kpundeh, Aart Kraay,
Keith Krause, Aurélien Kruse, Arvo Kuddo, Sibel Kulaksiz, Julien Labonne, Tuan Le, Theodore
Leggett, René Lemarchand, Anne-Marie Leroy, Brian Levy, Esther Loening, Ana Paula
Fialho Lopes, Chris Lovelace, Andrew Mack, Charles Maier, Sajjad Malik, David Mansfield,
Alexandre Marc, Roland Marchal, Ernesto May, Alastair McKechnie, Dave McRae, Pratap
Mehta, Piers Merrick, Jeffrey Miron, Peter Moll, Mick Moore, Adrian Morel, Edward Mountfield, Robert Muggah, Izumi Nakamitsu, Eric Nelson, Carmen Nonay, Antonio Nucifora,
Liam O’Dowd, the OECD/International Network on Conflict and Fragility (OECD/INCAF),
Adyline Waafas Ofusu-Amaah, Patti O’Neill, Robert Orr, Marina Ottaway, Phil Oxhorn, Kiran
Pandey, Andrew Parker, Martin Parry, Borany Penh, Nadia Piffaretti, Nicola Pontara, Rae
Porter, Ben Powis, Giovanna Prennushi, Gérard Prunier, Vikram Raghavan, Bassam Ramadan, Peter Reuter, Joey Reyes, Dena Ringold, David Robalino, Michael Ross, Mustapha Rouis,
Jordan Ryan, Joseph Saba, Abdi Samatar, Nicholas Sambanis, Kirsti Samuels, Jane Sansbury,
Mark Schneider, Colin Scott, John Sender, Yasmine Sherif, Janmejay Singh, David Sislen, Eduardo Somensatto, Radhika Srinivasan, Scott Straus, Camilla Sudgen, Vivek Suri, the Swiss
Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC), Almamy Sylla, Stefanie Teggemann, Thomas
John Thomsen, Martin Tisné, Alexandra Trzeciak-Duval, Anne Tully, Carolyn Turk, Oliver
Ulich, the United Kingdom’s Department for International Development (DFID), the United
States Agency for International Development (USAID), Peter Uvin, Manuel Vargas, Antonius
Verheijen, Thierry Vircoulon, M. Willem van Eeghen, Axel van Trotsenburg, Juergen Voegele,
Femke Vos, Tjip Walker, John Wallis, El Ghassim Wane, Dewen Wang, Achim Wennmann, Alys
Willman, Andreas Wimmer, Susan Wong, Rob Wrobel, Tevfik Yaprak, and Philip Zelikow.
We are grateful to persons in locations across the world who participated and provided
comments. In addition, we thank guest bloggers and members of the public who committed
on our blog: http://blogs.worldbank.org/conflict/.
Despite efforts to compile a comprehensive list, some who contributed may have been
inadvertently omitted. The team apologizes for any oversights and reiterates its gratitude to
all who contributed to this Report.

References

The word processed describes informally reproduced works that may not be commonly available
through libraries.
Abadie, Alberto. 2006. “Poverty, Political Freedom, and the Roots of Terrorism.” American Economic
Review 96 (2): 50–56.
Abbas, Hassan. 2008. “From FATA to the NWFP: The Taliban Spread Their Grip in Pakistan.” CTC
Sentinel 1 (10): 3–5.
———. 2010. “Inside Pakistan’s North-West Frontier Province: The Political Landscape of the Insurgency.” Counterterrorism Strategy Initiative Policy Paper, New America Foundation, Washington,
DC.
Abbink, Klaus, and Benedikt Herrmann. 2009. “Pointless Vendettas.” Center for Research in Experimental Economics and Political Decision-Making, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam.
Acemoglu, Daron, Simon Johnson, and James A. Robinson. 2001. “The Colonial Origins of Comparative
Development: An Empirical Investigation.” American Economic Review 91 (5): 1369–401.
———. 2005. “Institutions as the Fundamental Cause of Long-Run Growth.” In Handbook of Economic
Growth, ed. Philippe Aghion and Stephen N. Durlauf. Amsterdam: Elsevier.
Acemoglu, Daron, and James A. Robinson. 2006. Economic Origins of Dictatorship and Democracy. New
York: Cambridge University Press.
Acharya, Amitav, and Arabinda Acharya. 2007. “The Myth of the Second Front: Localizing the ‘War on
Terror’ in Southeast Asia.” The Washington Quarterly 30 (4): 75–90.
Addison, Tony. 2009. “The Political Economy of the Transition from Authoritarianism.” In Transitional
Justice and Development: Making Connections, ed. Pablo de Greiff and Roger Duthie. New York:
International Center for Transitional Justice.
Advancement Project. 2009. “Advancement Project.” Advancement Project, Washington, DC. http://
www.advancementproject.org.
African Development Bank. 2008. “Burundi: 2008–2011 Country Strategy Paper.” African Development
Bank, Tunis.
———. 2010. “The Fragile States Facility (FSF) Guidelines on Administration of the Technical Assistance and Capacity Building (TCB) Program of Pillar III Operations.” African Development Bank,
Tunis.
———. 2011. “Accompanying States Towards Sustainable Development.” African Development Bank,
Tunis. http://www.afdb.org.
African Union. 2006. “Draft Policy Framework for Post-conflict Reconstruction and Development
(PCRD).” African Union, Addis Ababa.
———. 2007a. “Declaration on the African Union Border Programme and its Implementation Modalities as Adopted by the Conference of African Ministers in Charge of Border Issues Held in Addis
Ababa.” African Union, Addis Ababa.
———. 2007b. “Framework for Post-conflict Reconstruction and Technical and Vocational Education
and Training (TVET).” African Union, Addis Ababa.
Afrobarometer. 2009. “Afrobarometer.” Afrobarometer, Accra.
Afshari, Ali, and H. Graham Underwood. 2009. “The Green Wave.” Journal of Democracy 20 (4): 6–10.
Aga Khan Development Network. 2003. “Speech by His Highness the Aga Khan.” Annual Meeting of
The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Tashkent, May 5.
297

298

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

———. 2010. “The Aga Khan Development Network: A Long-Term Approach to Development in
Conflict-prone Areas.” Background note for the WDR 2011.
Agarwal, Sanjay, Rasmus Heltberg, and Myrtle Diachok. 2009. “Scaling up Social Accountability in World
Bank Operations.” Social Development Department, World Bank, Washington, DC.
Agence Française de Développement, Bundesministerium für Wirtschaftliche Zusammenarbeit und
Entwicklung, DFID (U.K. Department for International Development), and World Bank. 2005. “Propoor Growth in the 1990s: Lessons and Insights from 14 Countries.” World Bank, Washington, DC.
Agence France-Presse. 1999. “East Timorese Rebels Vow to Confine Troops to Barracks: UN.” Agence
France-Presse, July 28.
Agoglia, John, Michael Dziedzic, and Barbara Sotirin, eds. 2008. Measuring Progress in Conflict Environments (MPICE): A Metrics Framework. Washington, DC: United States Institute of Peace.
Alda, Erik, and José Cuesta. 2010. “A Comprehensive Estimation of Costs of Crime in South Africa and Its
Implications for Effective Policy Making.” Journal of International Development (Online Edition).
Alden, Christopher. 2001. Mozambique and the Construction of the New African State: From Negotiations
to Nation Building. London: Palgrave Macmillan.
AllAfrica. 2009. “Liberia: GEMAP Has Succeeded.” AllAfrica.com, October 30.
Altbeker, Antony. 2005. “Paying for Crime: South African Spending on Criminal Justice.” ISS Working
Paper 115, Institute for Security Studies, Pretoria.
Alvarado, Nathalie, and Beatriz Abizanda. 2010. “Some Lessons Learnt in Citizen Security by the IADB.”
Background note for the WDR 2011.
American Psychological Association. 1996. “Violence and the Family: Report of the American Psychological Association Presidential Task Force on Violence and the Family.” American Psychological
Association, Washington, DC.
Amnesty International. 2005. “Israel and the Occupied Territories: Conflict, Occupation and Patriarchy:
Women Carry the Burden.” Amnesty International, London.
Anastasijevic, Dejan. 2006. “Organized Crime in the Western Balkans.” Paper presented at the First
Annual Conference on Human Security, Terrorism and Organized Crime in the Western Balkan
Region, Ljubljana, November 23.
Andean Council of Foreign Ministers. 2001. “Andean Cooperation Plan for the Control of Illegal Drugs
and Related Offenses.” Andean Community General Secretariat, Cartagena, Colombia.
Anderlini, Sanam. 2000. “Women at the Peace Table: Making a Difference.” UN Development Fund for
Women, New York.
———. 2010a. “Gender Background Paper.” Background paper for the WDR 2011.
———. 2010b. “What the Women Say: Participation and UNSCR 1325.” International Civil Society
Action Network, Washington, DC; Center for International Studies, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge, MA.
Andersen, Louise. 2010. “Outsiders Inside the State. Post-conflict Liberia between Trusteeship and Partnership.” Journal of Intervention and Statebuilding 4 (2): 129–52.
Andeweg, Rudy B. 2000. “Consociational Democracy.” Annual Review of Political Science 3: 509–36.
Andreas, Peter. 2004. “The Clandestine Political Economy of War and Peace in Bosnia.” International
Studies Quarterly 48 (1): 29–52.
Andrews, Matthew. 2010. “Good Government Means Different Things in Different Countries.” Governance 23 (1): 7–35.
Anyanwu, John C. 2004. “Economic and Political Causes of Civil Wars in Africa: Some Econometric
Results.” Peace, Conflict, and Development 4: 1–15.
Arai, Yukiko, Ata Cissé, and Madjiguene Sock. 2010. “Promoting Job Creation for Young People in Multinational Enterprises and Their Supply Chains: Liberia.” Employment Sector Report 7, International
Labour Organization, Geneva.
Arboleda, Jairo. 2010. “Security and Development in Colombia.” Background note for the WDR 2011.
Argandoña, Antonio. 2003. “The Social Dimensions of Labour Market Institutions.” In The Social Dimensions of Employment: Institutional Reforms in Labor Markets, ed. Antonio Argandoña and Jordi
Gual. Cheltenham, U.K.: Edward Elgar Publishing.
Arias, Patricia. 2009. “Seguridad Privada en América Latina: El Lucro y los Dilemas de una Regulación
Deficitaria.” Facultad Latinoamericana de Ciencias Sociales, Santiago.
Arnson, Cynthia J., and I. William Zartman, eds. 2005. Rethinking the Economics of War: The Intersection
of Need, Creed and Greed. Washington, DC: Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.

References

Arzeni, Simone, Enrico Cesanelli, and Stefano Pes. 2004. “Programme de Démobilisation, Réinsertion et
Réintégration des Ex-combatants (PDRRI): Rapport Final.” International Organization for Migration, Bissau.
Ashe, Jeffrey, and Lisa Parrott. 2001. “Impact Evaluation: PACT’s Women’s Empowerment Program in
Nepal: A Savings and Literacy Led Alternative to Financial Institution Building.” Brandeis University;
Freedom from Hunger, Waltham, MA.
Ashforth, Adam. 2009. “Ethnic Violence and the Prospects for Democracy in the Aftermath of the 2007
Kenyan Elections.” Public Culture 21 (1): 9–19.
Asian Development Bank. 2006. “Central Asia: Increasing Gains from Trade through Regional Cooperation in Trade Policy, Transport, and Customs Transit.” Asian Development Bank, Mandaluyong City,
Philippines.
Aspinall, Edward. 2005. The Helsinki Agreement: A More Promising Basis for Peace in Aceh? Washington,
DC: East-West Center.
Atkinson, Philippa. 2008. “Liberal Interventionism in Liberia: Towards a Tentatively Just Approach?”
Conflict, Security and Development 8 (1): 15–45.
Atos Consulting. 2009. “Evaluation of the Law and Order Trust Fund for Afghanistan (LOTFA) Phase
IV: Report.” Atos Consulting, Paris.
Atran, Scott. 2003. “Genesis of Suicide Terrorism.” Science 299 (5612): 1534–39.
AusAID. 2009. “Australian Aid to Water Supply and Sanitation Service Delivery in East Timor and Indonesia: Evaluation Report.” AusAID, Canberra.
Australian Crime Commission. 2010. “Australian Crime Commission: Unite the Fight Against Nationally Significant Crime.” Australian Crime Commission, Sydney.
Austrian Federal Ministry for European and International Affairs. 2006. “Three Year Programme on
Austrian Development Policy 2006–2008.” Austrian Federal Ministry for European and International
Affairs, Vienna.
Axelrod, Robert. 1984. The Evolution of Cooperation. New York: Basic Books.
Azam, Jean-Paul, Shantayanan Devarajan, and Stephen A. O’Connell. 2002. “Equilibrium Aid Dependence.” University of Toulouse, Toulouse, France. Processed.
Azam, Jean-Paul, and Alice Mesnard. 2003. “Civil War and the Social Contract.” Public Choice 115 (3–4):
455–75.
Bagwitz, Daniel, Reinhold Elges, Helmut Grossmann, and Gabriele Kruk. 2008. “Private Sector Development in (Post-) Conflict Situations: Guidebook.” Deutsche Gesellschaft für Technische Zusammenarbeit, Eschborn, Germany.
Baily, Virginia, and Veronica Hoskins. 2007. “Liberia: Peacebuilding Fund.” Africa Research Bulletin:
Economic, Financial and Technical Series 44 (9): 17550B.
Baird, Mark. 2010. “Service Delivery in Fragile and Conflict-Affected States.” Background paper for the
WDR 2011.
Baker, Paul, Friedrich von Kirchbach, Mondher Mimouni, and Jean-Michel Pasteels. 2002. “Analytical
Tools for Enhancing the Participation of Developing Countries in the Multilateral Trading System in
the Context of the Doha Development Agenda.” Aussenwirtschaft 57 (3): 343–69.
Baker, Raymond W. 2005. Capitalism’s Achilles Heel: Dirty Money and How to Renew the Free-Market
System. Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons.
Ball, Nicole, and Malcolm Holmes. 2002. “Integrating Defense into Public Expenditure Work.” U.K.
Department for International Development, London.
Ballentine, Karen, and Heiko Nitzschke. 2006. “Beyond Greed and Grievance: Policy Lessons from Studies in the Political Economy of Armed Conflict.” In Security and Development: Investing in Peace and
Prosperity, ed. Robert Picciotto and Rachel Weaving. Oxfordshire, U.K.: Routledge.
Banerjee, Abhijit V., and Esther Duflo. 2009. “The Experimental Approach to Development Economics.”
Annual Review of Economics 1: 151–78.
Bannon, Ian, and Paul Collier. 2003. Natural Resources and Violent Conflict: Options and Actions. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Barakat, Sultan. 2006. “Mid-term Evaluation Report of the National Solidarity Programme.” Post-war
Reconstruction and Development Unit, University of York, York, U.K.; Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation and Development, Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, Kabul.
Barron, Patrick. 2010. “Community-Driven Development in Post-conflict and Conflict-Affected Areas.”
Background paper for the WDR 2011.

299

300

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

Barron, Patrick, Paul Arthur, Peter Bartu, and Teresa Whitfield. 2010. “Sub-national Violence in Middleand Higher-Income Countries.” Background paper for the WDR 2011.
Barron, Patrick, and Adam Burke. 2008. “Supporting Peace in Aceh: Development Agencies and International Involvement.” Policy Studies 47, East-West Center, Washington, DC.
Barron, Patrick, Macartan Humphreys, Laura Paler, and Jeremy Weinstein. 2009. “Community-Based
Reintegration in Aceh: Assessing the Impacts of BRA-KDP.” Indonesian Social Development Paper
12, World Bank, Washington, DC.
Bartoli, Andrea. 2005. “Learning from the Mozambique Peace Process: The Role of the Community of
Sant’Egidio.” In Analyzing Successful Transfer Effects in Interactive Conflict Resolution, ed. Ron Fisher.
Lanham, MD: Lexington Books.
Bastick, Megan, Karin Grimm, and Rahel Kunz. 2007. Sexual Violence in Armed Conflict: Global Overview
and Implications for the Security Sector. Geneva: Geneva Centre for the Democratic Control of Armed
Forces.
Batchelor, Peter, and Paul Dunne. 1998. “The Restructuring of South Africa’s Defence Industry.” Africa
Security Review 7 (6): 27–43.
Bateson, Regina. 2010. “Summary of Recent Research: Public Security in Post War Guatemala.” PhD
thesis, Yale University, New Haven, CT.
Battle, Clare. 2008. “‘Fighting Talk’: The DCED Expert Meeting on Private Sector Development in Postconflict Situations.” The Donor Committee for Enterprise Development, Cambridge, U.K.
Bayer, Resat, and Matthew C. Rupert. 2004. “Effects of Civil Wars on International Trade, 1950–92.” Journal of Peace Research 41 (6): 699–713.
BBC News. 2002. “What is Loya Jirga?” BBC News, July 1.
———. 2010. “The Salang Tunnel: Afghanistan’s Lifeline.” BBC News, February 10.
BBC World Service Trust. 2010. “Afghan Education Projects.” BBC World Service Trust, London. http://
www.bbc.co.uk.
Beasley, Kenneth W. 2006. “Job Creation in Postconflict Societies.” Issue Paper 9, Center for Development
Information and Evaluation, U.S. Agency for International Development, Washington, DC.
Beath, Andrew, Christia Fotini, Ruben Enikolopov, and Shahim Ahmad Kabuli. 2010. “Randomized Impact Evaluation of Phase-II of Afghanistan’s National Solidarity Program: Estimates of Interim Program Impact from First Follow-up Survey.” World Bank, Washington, DC. http://www.nsp-ie.org/
reportsimpacts.html.
Beato, Claudio C. 2005. “Case Study ‘Fico Vivo’ Homicide Control Project in Belo Horizonte.” World
Bank, Washington, DC.
Becker, Gary S. 1968. “Crime and Punishment: An Economic Approach.” Journal of Political Economy 76
(2): 169–217.
Bedeski, Robert. 1994. The Transformation of South Korea: Reform and Reconstitution in the Sixth Republic
Under Roh Tae Woo, 1987–1992. London: Routledge.
Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action. 1995. “Chapter IV. E. Women and Armed Conflict.” Fourth
World Conference on Women, United Nations, Beijing.
Belgium Development Agency. 2006. “Indicative Cooperation Programme (2007–2009).” Belgium
Development Agency, Brussels.
———. 2009. “Indicative Cooperation Programme (2010–2013).” Belgium Development Agency, Brussels.
Bellina, Séverine, Dominique Darbon, Stein S. Eriksen, and Ole J. Sending. 2009. “The Legitimacy of the
State in Fragile Situations.” Report 20/2009 Discussion, Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation, Oslo; The French Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, Paris.
Ben-Ari, Benyamin. 2010. “An International Band-Aid: UNIFIL II and the Endeavor into Southern Lebanon.” Publications in Contemporary Affairs, Provo, UT.
Berger, Rachel. 2003. “Conflict over Natural Resources Among Pastoralists in Northern Kenya: A Look at
Recent Initiatives in Conflict Resolution.” Journal of International Development 15 (2): 245–57.
Berman, Eli. 2009. Radical, Religious and Violent: The New Economics of Terrorism. Cambridge, MA:
Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Berman, Eli, Joseph Felter, Jacob N. Shapiro, and Michael Callen. 2009. “Do Working Men Rebel? Insurgency and Unemployment in Iraq and the Philippines.” Working Paper 15547, National Bureau of
Economic Research, Cambridge, MA.
Berman, Eli, and Laurence R. Iannaccone. 2006. “Religious Extremism: The Good, the Bad, and the
Deadly.” Public Choice 128 (1): 109–29.

References

Berrebi, Claude. 2007. “Evidence About the Link Between Education, Poverty, and Terrorism among
Palestinians.” Peace Economics, Peace Science, and Public Policy 13 (1): 1–38.
Besley, Timothy, and Torsten Persson. 2009. “Repression or Civil War?” American Economic Review 99
(2): 292–97.
———. 2010. “State Capacity, Conflict and Development.” Econometrica 78 (1): 1–34.
Bessler, Manuel, Richard Garfield, and Gerard Mc Hugh. 2004. “Sanctions Assessment Handbook:
Assessing the Humanitarian Implications of Sanctions.” UN Office for the Coordination of
Humanitarian Affairs; Inter-Agency Standing Committee, New York.
Betancourt, Theresa S., and Timothy Williams. 2008. “Building an Evidence Base on Mental Health
Interventions for Children Affected by Armed Conflict.” Intervention 6 (1): 39–56.
Bhavnani, Ravi, and Dan Miodownik. 2009. “Ethnic Polarization, Ethnic Salience, and Civil War.” Journal of Conflict Resolution 53 (1): 30–49.
Bijleveld, Catrien, Aafke Morssinkhof, and Alette Smeulers. 2009. “Counting the Countless: Rape Victimization during the Rwandan Genocide.” International Criminal Justice Review 19 (2): 208–24.
Bilcik, Vladimir, Alexander Duleba, Michal Klyap, and Svitlana Mitryayeva. 2000. “Role of the Carpathian Euroregion in Strengthening Security and Stability in Central and Eastern Europe.” Paper
presented at the Carpathain Euroregion: Prospects and Challenges workshop, Truskavets, Ukraine,
November 23–25.
Birdsall, Nancy, Homi Kharas, Ayah Mahgoub, and Rita Perakis. 2010. “Quality of Official Development Assistance Assessment.” Brookings Institution; The Center for Global Development, Washington, DC.
BizCLIR (Business Climate Legal and Institutional Reform). 2007. “Overhauling Contract Enforcement:
Lessons from Rwanda.” BizCLIR Issues Paper 17, U.S. Agency for International Development, Washington, DC.
Blattman, Christopher. Forthcoming. “Post-conflict Recovery in Africa: The Micro Level.” In Oxford
Companion to the Economics of Africa, ed. Shantayanan Devarajan, Ernest Aryeetey, Ravi Kanbur, and
Louis Kasekende. Oxford, U.K.: Oxford University Press.
Blattman, Christopher, and Edward Miguel. 2010. “Civil War.” Journal of Economic Literature 48 (1):
3–57.
Blum, Rachel, and Jerome LeBleu. 2010. “Employment Generation in Post-conflict Environments: Linking Short- and Long-Term Initiatives.” In Civil Power in Irregular Conflicts, ed. Franklin D. Kramer,
Thomas Dempsey, Joseph Gregoire, and Susan Merrill. Alexandria, VA: CNA Analysis & Solutions;
Carlisle, PA: U.S. Army Peacekeeping and Stability Operations Institute; Arlington, VA: Association
of the U.S. Army.
Blundell, Arthur G. 2010. “Forests and Conflict: The Financial Flows That Fuel War.” Background paper
for the WDR 2011.
Bøås, Morten. 2009. “Making Plans for Liberia: A Trusteeship Approach to Good Governance.” Third
World Quarterly 30 (7): 1329–41.
Bøås, Morten, Åage Tiltnes, and Hedda Flatø. 2010. “Comparing the Cases.” Background paper for the
WDR 2011.
Boko, Sylvain H. 2008. “Social Accountability in Post-conflict and Fragile States.” Paper presented at the
Affiliated Network for Social Accountability: Africa Annual Stakeholder Conference, Addis Ababa,
May 19–20.
Bora, Saswati, Robert Townsend, Iride Ceccacci, and Christopher Delgado. 2010. “Food Security and
Conflict.” Background paper for the WDR 2011.
Bott, Sarah, Andrew Morrison, and Mary Ellsberg. 2005. “Preventing and Responding to Gender-Based
Violence in Middle- and Low-Income Countries: A Global Review and Analysis.” Policy Research
Working Paper 3618, World Bank, Washington, DC.
Boudreaux, Karol C. 2010. “A Better Brew for Success: Economic Liberalization in Rwanda’s Coffee
Sector.” World Bank, Washington, DC.
Boudreaux, Karol C., and Jutta Tobias. 2009. “The Role of Entrepreneurship in Conflict Reduction in the
Post-genocide Rwandan Coffee Industry: Quantitative Evidence from a Field Study.” Working Paper
09-24, Mercatus Center, George Mason University, Arlington, VA.
Bourne, Mike. 2007. Arming Conflict: The Proliferation of Small Arms. New York: Palgrave Macmillan.
Bowden, Anna. 2010. “The Economic Cost of Maritime Piracy.” One Earth Future Foundation, Louisville, CO.

301

302

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

Bowman, Brett, Richard Matzopoulos, Alexander Butchart, and James A. Mercy. 2008. “The Impact of
Violence on Development in Low- to Middle-Income Countries.” International Journal of Injury Control and Safety Promotion 15 (4): 209–19.
Boyce, James, and Shepard Forman. 2010. “Financing Peace: International and National Resources for
Post-conflict Countries and Fragile States.” Background paper for the WDR 2011.
Bradbury, Mark. 2008. Becoming Somaliland. Bloomington, IN: Indiana University Press.
Braithwaite, Valerie, and Margaret Levi, eds. 1998. Trust and Governance. New York: Russell Sage
Foundation.
Brancati, Dawn. 2006. “Decentralization: Fueling the Fire or Dampening the Flames of Ethnic Conflict
and Secessionism?” International Organization 60 (3): 651–85.
Brands, Hal. 2009. “Los Zetas and Mexico’s Transnational Drug War.” World Politics Review (Online
Edition).
Braud, Pierre-Antoine, and Giovanni Grevi. 2005. “The EU Mission in Aceh: Implementing Peace.”
Occasional Paper 61, European Union Institute for Security Studies, Paris.
Bräutigam, Deborah. 2000. Aid Dependence and Governance. Stockholm: Almqvist & Wiksell
International.
Briceño-Garmendia, Cecilia, and Vivien Foster, eds. 2010. Africa’s Infrastructure: A Time for Transformation. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Brick, Jennifer. 2008. “The Political Economy of Customary Village Organizations in Rural Afghanistan.”
Paper presented at the Annual Meeting of the Central Eurasian Studies Society, Washington, DC,
September 18–21.
Brinkman, Henk-Jan, and Cullen S. Hendrix. 2010. “Food Insecurity and Conflict: Applying the WDR
Framework.” Background paper for the WDR 2011.
Bronstein, Hugh. 2007. “Outraged Colombians March Against Rebel Kidnappers.” Reuters, July 5.
Brown, Michael E. 1996. “Introduction.” In The International Dimensions of Internal Conflict, ed.
Michael E. Brown. Cambridge, MA: Center for Science and International Affairs, John F. Kennedy
School of Government, Harvard University.
Brück, Tilman, Valpy Fitzgerald, and Arturo Grigsby. 2000. “Enhancing the Private Sector Contribution
to Post-War Recovery in Poor Countries.” Queen Elizabeth House Working Paper 45, University of
Oxford, Oxford, U.K.
Brück, Tilman, and Kati Schindler. 2008. “The Impact of Conflict and Fragility on Households: A Conceptual Framework with Reference to Widows.” Research Paper 2008/83, United Nations University–
World Institute for Development Economic Research Paper, Helsinki.
Brückner, Markus, and Antonio Ciccone. 2010. “International Commodity Prices, Growth and the Outbreak of Civil War in Sub-Saharan Africa.” The Economic Journal 120 (544): 519–34.
Buhaug, Halvard, and Kristian S. Gleditsch. 2008. “Contagion or Confusion? Why Conflicts Cluster in
Space.” International Studies Quarterly 52 (2): 215–33.
Buhaug, Halvard, and Henrik Urdal. 2010. “An Urbanization Bomb? Population Growth and Social Disorder in Cities.” Paper presented at the Urban Affairs Association Annual Conference, Honolulu, HI,
March 10.
Butchart, Alexander, David Brown, Alexis Khanh-Huynh, Phaedra Corso, Nicolas Florquin, and Robert
Muggah. 2008. “Manual for Estimating the Economic Costs of Injuries Due to Interpersonal and SelfDirected Violence.” World Health Organization, Geneva; Department of Health and Human Services,
Washington, DC; Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA.
Butty, James. 2010. “A New Study Finds Death Toll in Congo War Too High.” Voice of America, January 21.
Byron, Dennis, and Maria Dakolias. 2008. “The Regional Court Systems in the Organization of Eastern
Caribbean States and the Caribbean.” In Small States, Smart Solutions: Improving Connectivity and
Increasing the Effectiveness of Public Services, ed. Edgardo Favaro. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Cadeado, Calton, and Hipolito Hamela. 2009. “A Suis Generis Case of Power-Sharing in Mozambique.”
Peace and Development Research, World Bank, Washington, DC.
Campbell, Susanna P., Anja T. Kaspersen, and Erin Weir. 2007. “Integrated Mission Revisited: Synthesis of
Findings.” Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Oslo.
Carl, Andy, and Lorraine Garasu. 2002. “Weaving Consensus: The Papua New Guinea–Bougainville Peace
Process.” Conciliation Resources, London.
Carpenter, R. Charli. 2006. “Recognizing Gender-Based Violence against Civilian Men and Boys in Conflict Situations.” Security Dialogue 37 (1): 83–103.

References

Carter, Stephen, and Kate Clark. 2010. “No Shortcut to Stability: Justice, Politics and Insurgency in
Afghanistan.” Chatham House, London.
Cederman, Lars-Erik, Andreas Wimmer, and Brian Min. 2010. “Why Do Ethnic Groups Rebel?: New
Data and Analysis.” World Politics 62 (1): 87–119.
Central American Integration System. 2009. “Central American Integration System.” General Secretariat
of Central American Integration System, Antiguo Cuscatlán, El Salvador. http://www.sica.int.
Centre for Good Governance. 2009. “Social Audit of NREGS (AP) in Andhra Pradesh.” Centre for Good
Governance, Hyderabad, India.
Centro de Coordinación de Acción Integral. 2010. “Reporte Ejecutivo Plan Nacional de Consolidación.”
Centro de Coordinación de Acción Integral, Bogotá.
Cerra, Valerie, and Sweta C. Saxena. 2008. “Growth Dynamics: The Myth of Economic Recovery.” American Economic Review 98 (1): 439–57.
Chalk, Peter. 2008. “The Maritime Dimensions of International Security: Terrorism, Piracy and Challenges for the United States.” RAND Corporation, Santa Monica, CA.
Chalmers, Malcolm. 2007. “Spending to Save? An Analysis of the Cost Effectiveness of Conflict Prevention.” Defense and Peace Economics 18 (1): 1–23.
Chamarbagwala, Rubiana, and Hilcías E. Morán. 2011. “The Human Capital Consequences of Civil War:
Evidence from Guatemala.” Journal of Development Economics 94 (1): 41–61.
Chandran, Rahul, Jake Sherman, Bruce Jones, Shepard Forman, Anne le More, Andrew Hart, and
Yochino Funaki. 2009. “Rapid Deployment of Civilians for Peace Operations: Status, Gaps and
Options.” Center on International Cooperation, New York University, New York.
Chandran, Rahul, Jenna Slotin, and Gigja Sorensen. 2010. “Strategic Planning, Peacebuilding and Statebuilding: Background Paper for the International Dialogue.” Center on International Cooperation,
New York University, New York.
Chang, Yun-Shik, and Steven H. Lee. 2006. Transformations in Twentieth Century Korea. New York:
Routledge.
Chauveau, Jean-Pierre, and Paul Richards. 2008. “West African Insurgencies in Agrarian Perspective:
Côte d’Ivoire and Sierra Leone Compared.” Journal of Agrarian Change 8 (4): 515–52.
Cheeseman, Nic, and Blessing-Miles Tendi. 2010. “Power-Sharing in Comparative Perspective: The Dynamics of ‘Unity Government’ in Kenya and Zimbabwe.” Journal of Modern African Studies 48 (2):
203–29.
Chen, Shaohua, Martin Ravallion, and Prem Sangraula. 2008. “Dollar a Day Revisited.” World Bank
Economic Review 23 (2): 163–84.
Chesterman, Simon. 2004. You, the People: The United Nations, Transitional Administration, and StateBuilding. New York: Oxford University Press.
Christensen, Clayton M. 2003.The Innovator’s Dilemma: The Revolutionary Book that Will Change the
Way You Do Business. New York: HarperCollins.
Chuhan-Pole, Punam. 2010. “Yes Africa Can: Success Stories from a Dynamic Continent.” Office of the
Chief Economist, Africa Region, World Bank, Washington, DC.
Chun, Suk, and Inger Skjelsbæk. 2010. “Sexual Violence in Armed Conflicts.” Policy Brief I/2010, International Peace Research Institute of Oslo, Oslo.
CICIG (Comisión Internacional Contra la Impunidad en Guatemala). 2009. “Two Years of Work:
A Commitment to Justice.” CICIG, Guatemala City.
———. 2010. “Mensaje a los Jóvenes de Guatemala Acerca de la Elección de Fiscal General de la Nación.”
CICIG, Guatemala City.
Cincotta, Richard, Robert Engelman, and Daniele Anastasion. 2003. “The Security Demographic: Population and Civil Conflict after the Cold War.” Population Action International, Washington, DC.
Cingranelli, David L., and David L. Richards. 1999. “Measuring the Level, Pattern, and Sequence of
Government Respect for Physical Integrity Rights.” International Studies Quarterly 43 (2): 407–17.
———. 2010. “CIRI Human Rights Data Project.” Cingranelli-Richards (CIRI) Human Rights Data
Project, Binghamton, NY. http://ciri.binghamton.edu/.
Clark, John F. 1994. “The National Conference as an Instrument of Democratization in Francophone
Africa.” Journal of Third World Studies 11 (1): 304–35.
Clark, Phil, and Zachary A. Kaufman. 2011. “Rwanda: Recent History.” In Africa South of the Sahara
2012, ed. Iain Frame. London: Routledge.

303

304

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

Clements, Kevin P. 2010. Traditional, Charismatic and Grounded Legitimacy. Eschborn, Germany:
Deutsche Gesellschaft für Technische Zusammenarbeit.
Cliffe, Sarah, Scott Guggenheim, and Markus Kostner. 2003. “Community-Driven Reconstruction as an
Instrument in War-to-Peace Transitions.” Conflict Prevention and Reconstruction Series Working
Paper 7, Social Development Department, World Bank, Washington, DC.
Coalition for International Justice. 2005. “Following Taylor’s Money: A Path of War and Destruction.”
Coalition for International Justice, Washington, DC.
CODEH (Comité de Defensa para los Derechos Humanos en Honduras). 2008. “Crimen, Delincuencia e
Impunidad: Manifestaciones de Violencia y Conflictividad Social.” CODEH, Tegucigalpa.
Coldham, Simon. 1984. “The Settlement of Land Disputes in Kenya: An Historical Perspective.” The
Journal of Modern African Studies 22 (1): 59–71.
Colletta, Nat J., and Michelle L. Cullen. 2000. Violent Conflict and the Transformation of Social Capital:
Lessons from Cambodia, Rwanda, Guatemala, and Somalia. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Colletta, Nat J., Markus Kostner, and Ingo Wiederhofer. 1996. “Case Studies in War-to-Peace Transition:
The Demobilization and Reintegration of Ex-combatants in Ethiopia, Namibia and Uganda.” Discussion Paper 331, Africa Technical Department Series, World Bank, Washington, DC.
Colletta, Nat J., and Gebreselassie Tesfamichael. 2003. “Bank Engagement after Conflict: A Client Perspective.” World Bank, Washington, DC.
Collier, Paul. 2007. The Bottom Billion: Why the Poorest Countries Are Failing and What Can Be Done
about It. New York: Oxford University Press.
Collier, Paul, Lisa Chauvet, and Håvard Hegre. 2007. “The Security Challenge in Conflict-prone Countries.” Challenge Paper, Copenhagen Consensus 2008, Copenhagen.
Collier, Paul, Lani Elliott, Håvard Hegre, Anke Hoeffler, Marta Reynal-Querol, and Nicholas Sambanis.
2003. Breaking the Conflict Trap: Civil War and Development Policy. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Collier, Paul, and Anke Hoeffler. 1998. “On Economic Causes of Civil War.” Oxford Economic Papers 50
(4): 563–73.
———. 2002. “On the Incidence of Civil War in Africa.” Journal of Conflict Resolution 46 (1): 13–28.
———. 2004. “Greed and Grievance in Civil War.” Oxford Economic Papers 56 (4): 563–95.
Collier, Paul, Anke Hoeffler, and Mans Söderbom. 2008. “Post Conflict Risks.” Journal of Peace Research
45 (4): 461–78.
Collier, Paul, and Nicholas Sambanis, eds. 2005. Understanding Civil War: Evidence and Analysis. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Commission on Growth and Development. 2008. “The Growth Commission Report: Strategies for
Sustained Growth and Inclusive Development.” Commission on Growth and Development, Washington, DC.
Commission on Human Security. 2003. “Human Security Now: Protecting and Empowering People.”
Commission on Human Security, New York.
Commonwealth Secretariat. 2006. “Guyana General and Regional Elections: Report of the Commonwealth Observer Group.” Commonwealth Secretariat, London.
Comunità di Sant’Egidio. 2010. “The BRAVO! (Birth Registration for All Versus Oblivion) Programme.”
Comunità di Sant’Egidio, Rome.
Cooke, Julian, and Mervyn Brown. 2011. “Recent History: Madagascar.” Europa World Online, London.
http://www.europaworld.com.
Correia, Maria C. 2010. “MDRP and Regionality.” Background note for the WDR 2011.
Cortright, David, George Lopez, and Linda Gerber. 2002. “Sanctions Sans Commitment: An Assessment
of UN Arms Embargoes.” In Sanctions and the Search for Security Challenges to UN Action, ed. David
Cortright, George Lopez, and Linda Gerber. Boulder, CO: Lynne Reinner.
Council for the Development of Cambodia. 2010. “The Cambodia ODA Database.” Cambodian Rehabilitation and Development Board, Government of Cambodia, Phnom Penh. http://cdc.khmer.biz.
Council of Europe. 1995. “Examples of Good Practice of Transfrontier Co-operation Concerning Members of Ethnic Groups Residing on the Territory of Several States.” Council of Europe, Strasbourg,
France.
Council of Europe and Institute of International Sociology of Gorizia. 2003. “Cross-Border Cooperation in the Balkan/Danube Area: An Analysis of Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and

References

Threats.” Council of Europe, Strasbourg, France; Institute of International Sociology of Gorizia,
Gorizia, Italy.
Cousens, Elizabeth, and David Harland. 2006. “Post-Dayton Bosnia and Herzegovina.” In Twenty-First
Century Peace Operations, ed. William J. Durch. Washington, DC: United States Institute of Peace.
Cox, Marcus, and Nigel Thornton. 2010. “Applied Knowledge: Managing Results in Conflict-Affected
and Fragile States: A Stock-Take of Lessons, Experience, and Practice.” U.K. Department for International Development, London.
Cramer, Christopher. 2002. “Homo Economicus Goes to War: Methodological Individualism, Rational
Choice and the Political Economy of War.” World Development 30 (11): 1845–64.
———. 2006. Violence in Developing Countries: War, Memory, Progress. Bloomington, IN: Indiana University Press.
———. 2010. “Unemployment and Participation in Violence.” Background paper for the WDR 2011.
Crawford, Adam. 1999. The Local Governance of Crime: Appeals to Community and Partnerships. New
York: Oxford University Press.
Crisis Management Initiative. 2011. “Aceh.” Crisis Management Initiative, Helsinki. http://www.cmi.fi/.
Crook, Richard C., and James Manor. 1998. Democracy and Decentralisation in South Asia and West Africa: Participation, Accountability and Performance. Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge University Press.
Cross, Tim. 2010. “Youth Violence Prevention around the World: The Youth Build Case Study.” In Beyond Suppression: Global Perspectives on Youth Violence, ed. Robert Cohen, Joan S. Hoffman, and
Lyndee Knox. Santa Barbara, CA: ABC-CLIO.
Crown Agents. 2007. “Customs Reform Programme 1997–2006: The Modernisation of Alfândegas de
Moçambique.” Crown Agents, Sutton, U.K.
Cukier, Wendy. 2002. “Small Arms and Light Weapons: A Public Health Approach.” Brown Journal of
World Affairs 9 (1): 261–80.
Cumings, Bruce. 2005. “State Building in Korea: Continuity and Crisis.” In States and Development: Historical Antecedents of Stagnation and Advance, ed. Matthew Lange and Dietrich Rueschemeyer. New
York: Palgrave Macmillan.
Cunningham, Wendy, Lorena M. Cohen, Sophie Naudeau, and Linda McGinnis. 2008. “Supporting
Youth at Risk: A Policy Toolkit for Middle-Income Countries.” World Bank, Washington, DC.
Curtis, Glenn. E., and Tara Karacan. 2002. “The Nexus among Terrorists, Narcotics Traffickers, Weapons Proliferators, and Organized Crime Networks in Western Europe.” Federal Research Division,
Library of Congress, Washington, DC.
D’Anieri, Paul. 2006. “Explaining the Success and Failure of Post Communist Revolutions.” Communist
and Post-Communist Studies 39 (3): 331–50.
Dahlberg, Linda L. 1998. “Youth Violence in the United States: Major Trends, Risk Factors, and Prevention Approaches.” American Journal of Preventive Medicine 14 (4): 259–72.
Dahlberg, Linda L., and Etienne G. Krug. 2002. “Violence: A Global Public Health Problem.” In World
Report on Violence and Health, Etienne G. Krug, Linda L. Dahlberg, James A. Mercy, Anthony B. Zwi,
and Rafael Lozano. Geneva: World Health Organization.
Dale, Pamela. 2009. “Delivering Justice to Sierra Leone’s Poor: An Analysis of the Work of Timap for
Justice.” World Bank, Washington, DC.
Davies, Martyn, Hannah Edinger, Nastasya Tay, and Sanusha Naidu. 2008. “How China Delivers Development Assistance to Africa.” Centre for Chinese Studies, University of Stellenbosch, Matieland,
South Africa.
Davies, Stephen, Dimieari von Kemedi, and Mark Drennan. 2005. “Illegal Oil Bunkering in the Niger
Delta.” Niger Delta Peace and Security Strategy Working Group, Port Harcourt, Nigeria.
de Figueiredo, Rui J. P. Jr., and Barry R. Weingast. 1999. “The Rationality of Fear: Political Opportunism and Ethnic Conflict.” In Civil Wars, Insecurity and Interventions, ed. Jack Snyder and Barbara F.
Walter. New York: Columbia University Press.
de Greiff, Pablo. 2006. The Handbook of Reparations. New York: Oxford University Press.
———. 2010. “Transitional Justice, Security, and Development.” Background paper for the WDR 2011.
De Groot, Olaf J. 2010. “The Spillover Effects of Conflict on Economic Growth in Neighbouring Countries in Africa.” Defence and Peace Economics 21 (2): 149–64.
De Silva, K. M. 2005.A History of Sri Lanka. New York: Penguin Books.
de Soto, Alvaro, and Graciana del Castillo. 1994. “Obstacles to Peacebuilding.” Foreign Policy 94: 69–83.

305

306

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

de Soysa, Indra. 2002. “Paradise Is a Bazaar? Greed, Creed, and Governance in Civil War, 1989–99.” Journal of Peace Research 39 (4): 395–416.
De Stefano, Lucia, James Duncan, Shlomi Dinar, Kerstin Stahl, Kenneth Strzepek, and Aaron T. Wolf.
2010. “Mapping the Resilience of International River Basins to Future Climate Change: Induced
Water Variability.” Water Sector Board Discussion Paper 15, World Bank, Washington, DC.
de Waal, Alex, and Julie Flint. 2008. Darfur: A New History of a Long War. London: Zed Books; London:
International African Institute.
De Wulf, Luc, and José B. Sokol, eds. 2004. Customs Modernization Initiatives: Case Studies. Washington,
DC: World Bank.
de Zwart, Frank. 2000. “The Logic of Affirmative Action: Caste, Class and Quotas in India.” Acta Sociologica 43 (3): 235–49.
del Ninno, Carlo, Kalanidhi Subbarao, and Annamaria Milazzo. 2009. “How to Make Public Works Work:
A Review of Experiences.” Social Protection Discussion Paper 905, World Bank, Washington, DC.
Demirgüc-Kunt, Asli, Leora F. Klapper, and Georgios A. Panos. 2011. “Entrepreneurship in Post-conflict
Transition: The Role of Informality and Access to Finance.” Economics of Transition 19 (1): 27–78.
Demombynes, Gabriel. 2010. “Drug Trafficking and Violence in Central America and Beyond.” Background paper for the WDR 2011.
Demombynes, Gabriel, and Michael Clemens. 2010. “When Does Rigorous Impact Evaluation Make a
Difference? The Case of the Millennium Villages.” Working Paper 225, Center for Global Development, Washington, DC.
Development Alternatives Incorporated. 2010. “Facility for New Market Development (FNMD).” Development Alternatives Incorporated, Bethesda, MD.
DFID (U.K. Department for International Development). 2002. “Conducting Conflict Assessments:
Guidance Notes.” DFID, Center for Conflict Analysis and Prevention, London.
———. 2009. “Building the State and Securing the Peace.” DFID, London.
———. 2010. “Working Effectively in Conflict-Affected and Fragile Situations.” DFID, London.
Di John, Jonathon, and James Putzel. 2009. “Political Settlements.” Governance and Social Development Resource Centre, International Development Department, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, U.K.
Dinnen, Sinclair, Douglas Porter, and Caroline Sage. 2010. “Conflict in Melanesia: Common Themes,
Different Lessons.” Background paper for the WDR 2011.
Dixit, Avinash. 1980. “The Role of Investment in Entry Deterrence.” Economic Journal 90 (357): 95–106.
Dobbins, James, Seth G. Jones, Keith Crane, and Beth C. DeGrasse. 2007. The Beginner’s Guide to NationBuilding. Santa Monica, CA: RAND Corporation.
Dobbins, James, Seth G. Jones, Keith Crane, Andrew Rathmell, Brett Steele, Richard Teltschik, and Anga
Timilsina. 2005. The UN’s Role in Nation-Building: From the Congo to Iraq. Santa Monica, CA: RAND
Corporation.
Donovan, Megan K. 2008. “The International Commission against Impunity in Guatemala: Will Accountability Prevail?” Arizona Journal of International and Comparative Law 25 (3): 779–824.
Doyle, Michael W., and Nicholas Sambanis. 2006. Making War and Building Peace: United Nations Peace
Operations. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
Duailibi, Sergio, William Ponicki, Joel Grube, Ilana Pinsky, Ronaldo Laranjeira, and Martin Raw. 2007.
“The Effect of Restricting Opening Hours on Alcohol-Related Violence.” American Journal of Public
Health 97 (12): 2276–80.
Dudley, Steven S. 2010. “Drug Trafficking Organizations in Central America: Transportistas, Mexican
Cartels and Maras.” In Shared Responsibility: U.S.-Mexico Policy Options for Confronting Organized
Crime, ed. Erik L. Olson, David A. Shirk, and Andrew Selee. Washington, DC: Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars; San Diego, CA: Trans-Border Institute, University of San Diego.
Duffield, Mark. 2000. “Globalization, Transborder Trade, and War Economies.” In Greed and Grievance:
Economic Agendas in Civil Wars, Mats R. Berdal and David M. Malone. Boulder, CO: Lynne Rienner.
Dupuy, Kendra, and Helga M. Binningsbø. 2008. “Buying Peace with Diamonds? Power-sharing Agreements in Sierra Leone.” CSCW Policy Brief 7, Center for the Study of Civil War, Peace Research Institute of Oslo, Oslo.
Dwan, Renata, and Laura Bailey. 2006. “Liberia’s Governance and Economic Management Assistance
Program (GEMAP): A Joint Review by the Department of Peacekeeping Operations’ Peacekeeping

References

Best Practices Section and the World Bank’s Fragile States Group.” Fragile States Group, World Bank,
Washington, DC; Best Practices Section, Department of Peacekeeping Operations, United Nations,
New York.
Eades, Lindsay M. 1999.The End of Apartheid in South Africa. Westport, CT: Greenwood Press.
Easterly, William, Jozef Ritzen, and Michael Woolcock. 2006. “Social Cohesion, Institutions, and Growth.”
Economics and Politics 18 (2): 103–20.
Economic Times. 2008. “Australia Announces Pacific Guest Worker Scheme.” Economic Times, August 17.
Economist Intelligence Unit. 2008a. “Country Profile: Burundi.” Economist Intelligence Unit, London.
http://www.eiu.com.
———. 2008b. “Country Profile: Guinea-Bissau.” Economic Intelligence Unit, London. http://www.eiu
.com.
———. 2010. “Country Profiles.” Economist Intelligence Unit, London. http://www.eiu.com.
Edis, Richard. 1995. “Mozambique’s Successful Peace Process: An Insider’s View.” Cambridge Review of
International Affairs 9 (2): 5–21.
Eichengreen, Barry. 2010. “Lessons from the Marshall Plan.” Background paper for the WDR 2011.
Eide, Espen B., Anja T. Kaspersen, Randolph Kent, and Karen von Hippel. 2005. “Report on Integrated
Missions: Practical Perspectives and Recommendations.” UN Executive Committee on Humanitarian Affairs, New York.
EITI (Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative). 2009. “What is the EITI?” EITI, Oslo.
Ekeh, Peter. 2002. “A Review of HRW’s and CLEEN’s Report The Bakassi Boys: The Legitimization of
Murder and Torture on State Sponsored Vigilante Groups in Nigeria.” Dawodu.com, May 27.
El Jack, Amani. 2003. “Gender and Armed Conflict Overview Report.” Institute of Development Studies,
University of Sussex, Brighton, U.K.
Elbadawi, Ibrahim, Håvard Hegre, and Gary J. Milante. 2008. “The Aftermath of Civil War.” Journal of
Peace Research 45 (4): 451–59.
Embassy of the United States in Mexico. 2010. “Borders and Law Enforcement. A Border Community
United: The U.S.-Mexico Border.” U.S. Department of State, Mexico City. http://mexico.usembassy.
gov/.
Encyclopedia of the Nations. 2010. “Benin-History.” Encyclopedia of the Nations. http://www.nations
encyclopedia.com/.
Epstein, David L., Robert H. Bates, Jack A. Goldstone, Ida Kristensen, and Sharyn O’Halloran. 2006.
“Democratic Transitions.” American Journal of Political Science 50 (3): 551–69.
Esteban, Joan, and Debraj Ray. 2008. “Polarization, Fractionalization and Conflict.” Journal of Peace
Research 45 (2): 163–82.
Estrada, Daniela. 2010. “Unfinished Business.” Inter Press Service News Agency July 30.
Etzioni, Amitai. 1999. The Limits of Privacy. New York: Basic Books.
Europa Publications. 2001. “Europa World Online.” Europa Publications. http://www.europaworld.com.
European Affairs. 2010. “Led by the EU and NATO, International Efforts to Stem Maritime Piracy Begin
to Pay Off.” European Affairs, European Institute, Washington, DC.
European Commission and Republic of Burundi. 2007. “République du Burundi: Communauté Européenne: Document de Stratégie Pays et Programme Indicatif National 2008–2013.” European Commission, Lisbon.
European Union. 1951. “Treaty Establishing the European Coal and Steel Community, ECSC Treaty.”
European Union, Brussels. http://europa.eu.
Europol. 2007. “EU Terrorism Situation and Trend Report 2007.” Europol, The Hague, Netherlands.
Evans, Alex. 2010. “Resource Scarcity, Climate Change and the Risk of Violent Conflict.” Background
paper for the WDR 2011.
Even-Zohar, Chaim. 2003. “Sierra Leone Diamond Sector Financial Policy Constraint.” Management
Systems International, Washington, DC; Peace Diamond Alliance, Freetown, Sierra Leone.
Everett, Silas. 2009. “Law and Justice in East Timor: A Survey of Citizen Awareness and Attitudes regarding Law and Justice.” The Asia Foundation, San Francisco, CA.
Fabio, Sanchez. 2007. Las Cuentas de la Violencia. Bogotá: Grupo Editorial Norma.
Falch, Åshild. 2010. “Women’s Political Participation and Influence in Post-conflict Burundi and Nepal.”
Peace Research Institute of Oslo, Oslo.
FAO (Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations). 2010. “Global Information Early
Warning System on Food and Agriculture.” FAO, Rome.

307

308

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

FAO (Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations), IFAD (International Fund for Agricultural Development), UNCTAD (UN Conference on Trade and Development), and World Bank. 2010.
“Principles for Responsible Agricultural Investment That Respects Rights, Livelihoods and Resources.”
Discussion Note, FAO, Rome; IFAD, Rome; UNCTAD, Geneva; World Bank, Washington, DC.
Farrell, Graham, and Ken Clark. 2004. “What Does the World Spend on Criminal Justice?” HEUNI Paper
20, European Institute for Crime Prevention and Control, Helsinki.
Favaro, Edgardo, ed. 2008. Small States, Smart Solutions: Improving Connectivity and Increasing the Effectiveness of Public Services. Washington, DC: World Bank.
———. 2010. “Using Regional Institutions to Improve the Quality of Public Services.” Background paper
for the WDR 2011.
Faye, Michael L., John W. McArthur, Jeffrey D. Sachs, and Thomas Snow. 2004. “The Challenges Facing
Landlocked Developing Countries.” Journal of Human Development and Capabilities 5 (1): 31–68.
Fearon, James D. 1995. “Rationalist Explanations for War.” International Organization 49 (3): 379–414.
———. 2004. “Why Do Some Civil Wars Last So Much Longer than Others?” Journal of Peace Research
41 (3): 275–301.
———. 2005. “Primary Commodity Exports and Civil War.” Journal of Conflict Resolution 49 (4):
483–507.
———. 2006. “Ethnic Mobilization and Ethnic Violence.” In Oxford Handbook of Political Economy, ed.
Barry R. Weingast and Donald A. Wittman. New York: Oxford University Press.
———. 2010a. “Governance and Civil War Onset.” Background paper for the WDR 2011.
———. 2010b. “Homicide Data.” Background note for the WDR 2011.
Fearon, James D., and David D. Laitin. 1999. “Weak States, Rough Terrain, and Large-Scale Ethnic Violence Since 1945.” Paper presented at the 1999 Annual Meetings of the American Political Science
Association, Atlanta, GA, September 2.
———. 2003. “Ethnicity, Insurgency, and Civil War.” American Political Science Review 97 (1): 75–90.
Fearon, James D., Macartan Humphreys, and Jeremy Weinstein. 2009. “Can Development Aid Contribute
to Social Cohesion after Civil War? Evidence from a Field Experiment in Post-conflict Liberia.” American Economic Review 99 (2): 287–91.
Fenton, Wendy, and Melissa Phillips. 2009. “Funding Mechanisms in Southern Sudan: NGO Perspectives.” Humanitarian Exchange Magazine 42: 25–7.
Férnandez, Carlos Castresana. 2010. “CICIG Review: A Report on CICIG’s Activities.” Paper presented at
the Central American Regional Workshop on the World Development Report 2011: Conflict, Security, and Development, Mexico City, June 21.
Filippini, Leonardo. 2009. “Criminal Prosecutions for Human Rights Violations in Argentina.” International Center for Transitional Justice, Buenos Aires.
Financial Action Task Force. 2010. “20 Years of the FATF Recommendations: 1990–2010.” Financial
Action Task Force, Paris; Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, Paris.
Finegan, T. Aldrich, and Robert A. Margo. 1994. “Added and Discouraged Workers in the Late 1930s:
A Re-examination.” Journal of Economic History 54: 64–84.
Formisano, Michel. 2002. “Econometría Espacial: Características de la Violencia Homicida en Bogotá.”
El Centro de Estudios sobre Desarrollo Económico, Bogotá.
Fortna, Virginia P. 2008. Does Peacekeeping Work? Shaping Belligerents’ Choices after Civil War. Princeton,
NJ: Princeton University Press.
Foxnews.com. 2001. “The Oklahoma City Bombing: Fast Facts.” FoxNews.com, September 5. http://www.
foxnews.com/.
French Ministry of Foreign Affairs. 2006. “Framework Partnership Document: France; Republic of
Burundi (2006–2010).” French Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Paris.
Friends Committee on National Legislation. 2009. “Kenya: Temporary Ceasefire or Lasting Peace?” Policy
Brief, Friends Committee on National Legislation, Washington, DC.
Frühling, Hugo, Joseph S. Tulchin, and Heather A. Golding, eds. 2003. Crime and Violence in Latin America: Citizen Security, Democracy, and the State. Washington, DC: Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
Fukuyama, Francis. 2004. State-Building: Governance and World Order in the 21st Century. Ithaca, NY:
Cornell University Press.
Gadir, Ali A., Ibrahim A. Elbadawi, and Atta El-Batahani. 2005. “Sudan’s Civil War: Why Has It Prevailed
for So Long?” In Understanding Civil War: Evidence and Analysis, ed. Paul Collier and Nicholas Sambanis. Washington, DC: World Bank.

References

Gaibulloev, Khusrav, and Todd Sandler. 2008. “Growth Consequences of Terrorism in Western Europe.”
Kyklos 61 (3): 411–24.
Gambino, Anthony W. 2010. “Democratic Republic of Congo.” Background paper for the WDR 2011.
Gantz, David. 1998. “Globalizing Sanctions Against Foreign Bribery: The Emergence of a New International Legal Consensus.” Northwestern Journal of International Law and Business 18 (2): 457–97.
Garang, John. 1987. John Garang Speaks. London: Kegan Paul International.
Garrasi, Donata. 2010. “Funding Peacebuilding and Recovery: A Comparative Review of System-wide
Multi-donor Trust Funds and Other Funding Instruments for Peacebuilding and Post-conflict
Recovery.” U.K. Department for International Development, London.
Garrett, Laurie. 2005. “HIV and National Security: Where Are the Links?” Council on Foreign Relations,
Washington, DC.
Garzón, Juan C. 2008. “Mafia and Co.: The Criminal Networks in Brazil, Mexico, and Colombia.” Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, Washington, DC.
Gates, Scott, Håvard Hegre, Håvard M. Nygård, and Håvard Strand. 2010. “Human, Economic, and
Social Consequences of Fragility and Conflict.” Background paper for the WDR 2011.
Gates, Scott, and Kaare Strøm. 2008.“Power Sharing and Civil Conflict.” CSCW Policy Brief I/2008,
Center for the Study of Civil War, Peace Research Institute of Oslo, Oslo.
Gberie, Lansana. 2003a. “L’Afrique de l’Ouest: Entre Pierres et Étincelles. L’Économie Politique des
Diamants et la Déstablisation Régionale.” Partenariat Afrique Canada, Ottawa.
———. 2003b. “ECOMOG: The Story of an Heroic Failure.” African Affairs 102 (406): 147–54.
Gelb, Alan. 2010. “How Can Donors Create Incentives for Results and Flexibility for Fragile States?
A Proposal for IDA.” Working Paper 227, Center for Global Development, Washington, DC.
Gellner, Ernest. 1983. Nations and Nationalism. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press.
Geneva Conventions. 1949. “Geneva Conventions Relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time
of War.” Diplomatic Conference of Geneva of 1949, Geneva.
Geneva Declaration. 2008. “Global Burden of Armed Violence.” Geneva Declaration on Armed Violence
and Development, Geneva.
———. 2010. “More Violence, Less Development: Examining the Relationship between Armed Violence and MDG Achievement.” Geneva Declaration on Armed Violence and Development, Geneva.
Gerson, Allan, and Nat J. Colletta. 2002. Privatizing Peace: From Conflict to Security. Ardsley, NY: Transnational Publishers.
Gettleman, Jeffrey. 2009. “Radical Islamists Slip Easily Into Kenya.” New York Times, July 21.
GhanaWeb. 2006. “Workshop on Conflict Resolution Ends at Dodowa.” GhanaWeb, April 1. http://
ghanaweb.net.
Ghani, Ashraf C., and Clare Lockhart. 2008. Fixing Failed States: A Framework for Rebuilding a Fractured
World. New York: Oxford University Press.
Ghani, Ashraf C., Clare Lockhart, and Michael Carnahan. 2005. “Closing the Sovereignty Gap: An Approach to State-Building.” Working Paper 253, Overseas Development Institute, London.
Gilpin, Raymond. 2009. “Counting the Costs of Somali Piracy.” Center for Sustainable Economics Working Paper, United States Institute for Peace, Washington, DC.
Giovine, Luigi, Robert Krech, Kremena Ionkova, and Kathryn Bach. 2010. “Holding on to Monrovia:
Protecting a Fragile Peace through Economic Governance and Short-Term Employment.” Background paper for the WDR 2011.
Gleditsch, Kristian S. 2007.“Transnational Dimensions of Civil War.” Journal of Peace Research 44 (3):
293–309.
Gleditsch, Kristian S., and Michael D. Ward. 1999. “Interstate System Membership: A Revised List of the
Independent States since 1816.” International Interactions 25 (4): 393–413.
———. 2000. “War and Peace in Space and Time: The Role of Democratization.” International Studies
Quarterly 44 (1): 1–29.
Gleditsch, Nils P., Peter Wallensteen, Mikael Eriksson, Margareta Sollenberg, and Håvard Strand. 2002.
“Armed Conflict 1946–2001: A New Dataset.” Journal of Peace Research 39 (5): 615–37.
Glenny, Misha. 2008. McMafia: A Journey through the Global Criminal Underworld. New York: Alfred A.
Knopf.
Glick, Reuven, and Alan M. Taylor. 2005. “Collateral Damage: Trade Disruption and the Economic
Impact of War.” NBER Working Paper 11565, National Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge,
MA.

309

310

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

Global Terrorism Database. 2010. “Global Terrorism Database.” National Consortium for the Study of
Terrorism and Responses to Terrorism, University of Maryland, College Park, MD. http://www.start.
umd.edu/gtd/.
Goldstein, Joshua, and Juliana Rotich. 2008. “Digitally Networked Technology in Kenya’s 2007–2008
Post-Election Crisis.” Research Publication No. 2008–09, Berkman Center for Internet and Society,
Harvard University, Cambridge, MA.
Goldstone, Jack A. 2010. “Representational Models and Democratic Transitions in Fragile and Postconflict States.” Background paper for the WDR 2011.
Goldstone, Jack A., Robert H. Bates, David L. Epstein, Ted R. Gurr, Michael B. Lustik, Monty G. Marshall,
Jay Ulfelder, and Mark Woodward. 2010. “A Global Model for Forecasting Political Instability.” American Journal of Political Science 54 (1): 190–208.
Goldstone, Jack A., and Jay Ulfelder. 2004. “How to Construct Stable Democracies.” Washington Quarterly 28 (1): 9–20.
Gómez, Armando C. 2008. “Diagnóstico de la Seguridad Pública y Privada en Guatemala, Honduras y El
Salvador.” Organization of American States, Washington, DC.
Gomez, Margarita P., and Asger Christensen. 2010. “The Impacts of Refugees on Neighboring Countries:
A Development Challenge.” Background paper for the WDR 2011.
Gonçalve, Danyelle N. 2008. “Os Processos de Anistia Política No Brasil: Do Perdão à ‘Reparação.’” Revista
Ciencia Sociais 39 (1): 38–48.
Goreaux, Louis. 2001. “Conflict Diamonds.” Africa Region Working Paper Series 13, World Bank, Washington, DC.
Government of Aceh, Syiah Kuala University, and World Bank. 2008. “Managing Resources for Better
Outcomes in a Special Autonomy Region: Aceh Public Expenditure Analysis Update 2008.” Government of Aceh; Syiah Kuala University; World Bank, Jakarta.
Government of Afghanistan and UNDP (UN Development Programme). 2010. “ARTF Administrator’s
Report on Financial Status: As of December 21, 2010.” Government of Afghanistan; UNDP, Kabul.
Government of Australia. 2010. “Australian Transaction Reports and Analysis Centre.” Government of
Australia, West Chatswood, Australia.
Government of Burundi, and UN (United Nations). 2009. “Strategie Integree D’Appui des Nations Unies
au Burundi 2010-2014: Consolidation de las Paix et Relévement Communautaire.” Government of
Burundi; UN, Bujumbura.
Government of Nepal, UNDP (UN Development Programme), and UNDG (UN Development Group).
2010. “Third Consolidated Annual Report on Activities Implemented Under the United Nations Peace
Fund for Nepal: Report of the Administrative Agent of the United Nations Peace Fund for Nepal for
the Period 1 January to 31 December 2009.” Government of Nepal; UNDP; UNDG, Kathmandu.
Government of the Republic of Indonesia and Free Aceh Movement. 2005. “Helsinki Memorandum of
Understanding.” Government of Republic of Indoesia; Free Aceh Movement, Helsinki.
Government of the Republic of Liberia Executive Mansion. 2009. “Liberia Makes Progress on Corruption, Transparency International Index Shows.” Government of the Republic of Liberia Executive
Mansion, Monrovia. http://www.emansion.gov.lr.
Gowan, Richard. 2007. “EUFOR RD Congo, UNIFIL and Future European Support to the UN.” Paper
presented at the Security and Defence Agenda: The EU’s Africa Strategy: What are the Lessons of the
Congo Mission? Brussels, March 7.
Graydon, Carolyn. 2005. “Local Justice Systems in Timor-Leste: Washed Up, or Watch this Space?” Development Bulletin 68: 66–70.
Greenberger, Robert S. 1995.“Foreigners Use Bribes to Beat U.S. Rivals in Many Deals, New Report
Concludes.” Wall Street Journal, October 12.
Greene, Owen. 2001. “Enhancing Traceability of Small Arms and Light Weapons Flows: Developing an
International Marking and Tracing Regime.” Biting the Bullet Briefing Paper 5, British American
Security Information Council; International Alert; Saferworld, London.
Greenfell, Laura. 2006. “Legal Pluralism and the Rule of Law in Timor Leste.” Leiden Journal of International Law 19: 305–37.
Greta, Maria, and Krzysztof Lewandowski. 2010. “Euroregion’s ‘Mission’ and the Success of the Lisbon
Strategy.” Business and Economic Horizons 1 (1): 14–20.

References

Grimm, Sonja. 2010. “Germany’s Post-1945 and Post-1989 Education Systems.” Background note for
the WDR 2011.
Grindle, Merilee S. 2010.“Good Governance: The Inflation of an Idea.” Faculty Research Working Papers
RWP10-023, John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA.
Grossman, Herschel I. 1991. “A General Equilibrium Model of Insurrections.” American Economic Review 81 (4): 912–21.
Grygiel, Julie. 2007. “Kosovo Dairy Value Chain Case Study: Guided Case Studies in Value Chain Development for Conflict-Affected Environments.” Micro Report 95, U.S. Agency for International Development, Washington, DC.
Guehenno, Jean-Marie. 2010. “Public Security, Criminal Justice, and Reforming the Security Sector.”
Background paper for the WDR 2011.
Guerrero, Rodrigo. 1999. “Programa Desarrollo, Seguridad y Paz DESEPAZ de la Ciudad de Cali.” Paper
presented at the Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo Programas Municipales para la Prevención y
Atención de la Violencia, Rio de Janeiro, July 29–30.
———. 2006. “Violence Prevention Through Multi-sectoral Partnerships: The Cases of Cali and
Bogotá.” African Safety Promotion: A Journal of Injury and Violence Prevention 4 (2): 88–98.
Guerrero-Serdán, Gabriela. 2009. “The Effects of the War in Iraq on Nutrition and Health: An Analysis
Using Anthropometric Outcomes of Children.” Households in Conflict Network Working Papers 55,
Institute of Development Studies, University of Sussex, Brighton, U.K.
Guggenheim, Scott. 2011. “Community-Driven Development versus Flexible Funding to Communities
in Conflict and Post-conflict Environments.” Background note for the WDR 2011.
Guha-Sapir, Debarati, and Olivia D’Aoust. 2010. “Demographic and Health Consequences of Civil Conflict.” Background paper for the WDR 2011.
Gupta, Jyotirindra D. 1970. Language Conflict and National Development: Group Politics and National
Language Policy in India. Berkeley, CA: University of California Press.
Gurr, Ted R. 1968. “A Causal Model of Civil Strife: A Comparative Analysis Using New Indices.” American Political Science Review 62 (4): 1104–24.
———. 1970. Why Men Rebel. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
Gutiérrez Sanín, Francisco. 2008. “Telling the Difference: Guerrillas and Paramilitaries in the Colombia
War.” Politics and Society 36 (1): 3–34.
Hall, Robert E., and Charles I. Jones. 1999. “Why Do Some Countries Produce So Much More Output
per Worker Than Others?” Quarterly Journal of Economics 114 (1): 83–116.
Hanson, Stephanie. 2010. “Combating Maritime Piracy.” Council on Foreign Relations, Washington, DC.
Harbom, Lotta, and Peter Wallensteen. 2010. “Armed Conflicts, 1946–2009.” Journal of Peace Research
47 (4): 501–09.
Harborne, Bernard, and Caroline Sage. 2010. “Security and Justice Overview.” Background paper for the
WDR 2011.
Harborne, Bernard, Mike McGovern, Gilbert Khadaglia, and Paul Francis. 2010. “Avoidance or Prevention.” Background paper for the WDR 2011.
Harild, Niels, and Asger Christensen. 2010. “The Development Challenge of Finding Durable Solutions
for Refugees and Internally Displaced People.” Background note for the WDR 2011.
Harriott, Anthony, ed. 2004. Understanding Crime in Jamaica: New Challenges for Public Policy. Kingston,
Jamaica: University of West Indies Press.
———. 2008. Organized Crime and Politics in Jamaica: Breaking the Nexus. Kingston, Jamaica: Canoe
Press, University of West Indies.
Hartzell, Caroline, Mathew Hoddie, and Donald Rothchild. 2001. “Stabilizing the Peace after Civil War:
An Investigation of Some Key Variables.” International Organization 55 (1): 183–208.
Hartzell, Caroline A. 2006.“Structuring the Peace: Negotiated Settlements and the Construction of
Conflict Management Institutions.” In Conflict Prevention and Peacebuilding in Post-War Societies:
Sustaining the Peace, ed. T. David Mason and James D. Meernik. New York: Routledge.
Harvey, Paul, Abby Stoddard, Adele Harmer, Glyn Taylor, with Victoria DiDomenico, and Lauren
Brander. 2010. “The State of the Humanitarian System: Assessing Performance and Progress.” Active Learning Network for Accountability and Performance in Humanitarian Action, London.
Harwell, Emily. 2010. “Forests in Fragile and Conflict-Affected States.” Background paper for the WDR
2011.

311

312

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

Hassan, Nasra. 2001. “An Arsenal of Believers: Talking to the ‘Human Bombs.’” The New Yorker November 19, 2001.
Hayner, Priscilla. 2010. Unspeakable Truths: Transitional Justice and the Challenge of Truth Commissions.
New York: Routledge.
Hegre, Håvard, and Nicholas Sambanis. 2006. “Sensitivity Analysis of Empirical Results on Civil War
Onset.” Journal of Conflict Resolution 50 (4): 508–35.
Heimann, Fritz, and Gillian Dell. 2010. “Progress Report: Enforcement of the OECD Anti-Bribery
Convention 2010.” Transparency International, Berlin.
Heinemann-Grüder, Andreas, Tobias Pietz, and Shay Duffy. 2003. “Turning Soldiers into a Work Force:
Demobilization and Reintegration in Post-Dayton Bosnia and Herzegovina.” Brief 27, Bonn International Center for Conversion, Bonn, Germany.
Henrich, Joseph, Jean Ensminger, Richard McElreath, Abigail Barr, Clark Barrett, Alexander Bolyanatz,
Juan C. Cardenas, Michael Gurven, Edwins Gwako, Natalie Henrich, Carolyn Lesorogol, Frank Marlowe, David Tracer, and John Ziker. 2010. “Markets, Religion, Community Size, and the Evolution of
Fairness and Punishment.” Science 327 (5972): 1480–84.
Heraclides, Alexis. 1990. “Secessionist Minorities and External Involvement.” International Organization
44 (3): 341–78.
Herbst, Jeffrey. 2000. States and Power in Africa: Comparative Lessons in Authority and Control. Princeton,
NJ: Princeton University Press.
Herz, John. 1950. “Idealist Internationalism and the Security Dilemma.” World Politics 2 (2): 157–80.
Herzberg, Benjamin. 2004. “Investment Climate Reform: Going the Last Mile: The Bulldozer Initiative in
Bosnia and Herzegovina.” Policy Research Working Paper 3390, World Bank, Washington, DC.
Heuveline, Patrick, and Bunnak Poch. 2007. “The Phoenix Population: Demographic Crisis and Rebound
in Cambodia.” Demography 44 (2): 405–26.
Hewitt, J. Joseph, Jonathan Wilkenfeld, and Ted R. Gurr. 2010. Peace and Conflict 2010. Boulder, CO:
Paradigm Publishers.
Hines, James R. 1995. “Forbidden Payment: Foreign Bribery and American Business After 1977.” NBER
Working Paper 5266, National Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, MA.
Hirshleifer, Jack. 1995. “Anarchy and Its Breakdown.” Journal of Political Economy 103 (1): 26–52.
Hobbes, Thomas. 1651. “Leviathan or The Matter, Forme and Power of a Common Wealth Ecclesiasticall
and Civil.” Andrew Crooke, London.
Hoeffler, Anke, Sarah von Billerbeck, and Syeda S. Ijaz. 2010. “Post-conflict Recovery and Peace Building.”
Background paper for the WDR 2011.
Hoff, Karla. 2010. “Experiments and the Study of Conflict.” Background note for the WDR 2011.
Hoff, Karla, and Joseph E. Stiglitz. 2004a. “After the Big Bang? Obstacles to the Emergence of the Rule of
Law in Post-Communist Societies.” American Economic Review 94 (3): 753–63.
———. 2004b. “The Transition Process in Postcommunist Societies: Toward a Political Economy of
Property Rights.” In Toward Pro-Poor Policies: Aid, Institutions and Globalization, Bertil Tungodden, Nicholas Stern, and Ivar Kolstad. Washington, DC: World Bank; New York: Oxford University
Press.
———. 2008. “Exiting a Lawless State.” Economic Journal 118 (531): 1474–97.
Horowitz, Donald L. 2000. Ethnic Groups in Conflict. Berkeley, CA: University of California Press.
Horsey, Richard, and Nikolas Win Myint. 2010. “Engaging with Countries in Situations of Political
Impasse.” Background paper for the WDR 2011.
Houdart, Fabrice, and David Pearce. 2011. “World Bank Staff Analysis for the WDR 2011.” Background
note for the WDR 2011.
Huang, Yasheng, and Xueli Wang. 2010. “Employment and Social Capital Formation in China: Evidence
from Rural Migrant Worker Surveys.” Background paper for the WDR 2011.
Hubbard, Michael. 2005. “Changing Customs: Lessons from Mozambique.” International Development
Department, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, U.K.
Hudson, Andrew and Alexandra W. Taylor. 2010. “The International Commission against Impunity in
Guatemala: A New Model for International Criminal Justice Mechanisms.” Journal of International
Criminal Justice 8 (1): 53–74.
Hufbauer, Gary C., Jeffrey J. Schott, Kimberly A. Elliott, and Barbara Oegg. 2007. Economic Sanctions
Reconsidered. Washington, DC: Peterson Institute for International Economics.

References

Hughes, Richard L., Robert C. Ginnett, and Gordon J. Curphy. 2005. Leadership: Enhancing the Lessons
of Experience. New York: McGraw-Hill Irwin.
Human Rights Watch. 2009. “Soldiers Who Rape, Commanders Who Condone: Sexual Violence and
Military Reform in the Democratic Republic of Congo.” Human Rights Watch, New York.
Human Security Report Project. 2005. Human Security Report 2005: War and Peace in the 21st Century.
New York: Oxford University Press.
———. eds. forthcoming. “Human Security Report 2009/2010: The Causes of Peace and the Shrinking
Costs of War.” Vancouver: Human Security Report Project.
Hume, Cameron R. 1994. Ending Mozambique’s War: The Role of Mediation and Good Offices. Washington, DC: United States Institute of Peace.
Hunt, Swanee, and Cristina Posa. 2001. “Women Waging Peace.” Foreign Policy 124: 38–47.
Huntington, Samuel P. 1968. Political Order in Changing Societies. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press.
Huyse, Luc, and Mark Salter, eds. 2008. Traditional Justice and Reconciliation after Violent Conflict: Learning
from African Experiences. Stockholm: International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance.
Ibáñez, Ana María, and Andrés Moya. 2006. “The Impact of Intra-state Conflict on Economic Welfare and Consumption Smoothing: Empirical Evidence for the Displaced Population in Colombia.”
Household in Conflict Network Working Paper 23, Institute of Development Studies, University of
Sussex, Brighton, U.K.
ICRC (International Committee of the Red Cross). 2001. “Women Facing War.” ICRC, Geneva.
IFC (International Finance Corporation). 2008. “IFC Smart Lessons: Creating Opportunities for Women
Entrepreneurs in Conflict-Affected Countries.” IFC, Washington, DC.
Igreja, Victor, and Beatrice Dias-Lambranca. 2008. “Restorative Justice and the Role of Magamba Spirits
in Post-Civil War Gorongosa, Central Mozambique.” In Traditional Justice and Reconciliation After
Violent Conflict: Learning from African Experiences, ed. Luc Huyse and Mark Salter. Stockholm: International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance.
ILO (International Labour Organization). 2009. “Socio-Economic Reintegration of Ex-combatants:
Guidelines.” ILO, Geneva.
———. 2010. “Local Economic Recovery in Post-conflict: Guidelines.” ILO, Geneva.
Imai, Kosuke, and Jeremy Weinstein. 2000. “Measuring the Economic Impact of Civil War.” Working
Paper 51, Center for International Development, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA.
Indian Ministry of Rural Development. 2005. “The Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment
Guarantee Act.” Government of India, New Delhi. http://www.nrega.nic.in/netnrega/home.aspx.
———. 2010. “Background Material for the World Development Report on Conflict, Security and Development.” Background note for the WDR 2011.
INEE (Inter-Agency Network for Education in Emergencies). 2010. “Multiple Faces of Education in
Conflict-Affected and Fragile Contexts.” INEE, New York, Paris, and Geneva.
Institute for State Effectiveness. 2007. “Kosovo: Developing a Strategy for the Future.” Institute for State
Effectiveness, Washington, DC.
Instituto Universitario en Democracia Paz y Seguridad. 2010. “Observatorio de la Violencia en Honduras, Muertes Violentas y No Intencionales.” Instituto Universitario en Democracia Paz y Seguridad
Observatorio Nacional de la Violencia Edición, Tegucigalpa.
Inter-American Drug Abuse Control Commission. 2010. “Statute of the Inter-American Drug Abuse
Control Commission (CICAD).” Organization of American States, Washington, DC.
Internal Displacement Monitoring Centre. 2007. “International Displacement: Global Overview of
Trends and Developments in 2006.” Internal Displacement Monitoring Centre of the Norwegian
Refugee Council, Geneva.
———. 2008. “Internal Displacement: Global Overview of Trends and Developments in 2007.” International Displacement Monitoring Centre of the Norwegian Refugee Council, Geneva.
———. 2010. “International Displacement: Global Overview of Trends and Developments in 2009.”
International Displacement Monitoring Centre of the Norwegian Refugee Council, Geneva.
International Alert and Eastern Africa Sub-Regional Support Initiative for the Advancement of Women.
2007. “Women’s Political Participation in Countries Emerging from Conflict in the Great Lakes
Region of Africa: Report of the Consultation Workshop.” International Alert; Eastern Africa SubRegional Support Initiative for the Advancement of Women, London.
International Alert and Women Waging Peace. 2004. “Inclusive Security, Sustainable Peace: A Toolkit for
Advocacy and Action.” International Alert, London.

313

314

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

International Center for Research on Women. 2002. “Women-Initiated Community Level Responses
to Domestic Violence: Summary Report of Three Studies.” International Center for Research on
Women, Washington, DC.
International Center for Transitional Justice. 2010. “Truth Seeking.” International Center for Transitional
Justice, New York. http://www.ictj.org.
International Centre for the Prevention of Crime. 2005. “Urban Crime Prevention and Youth at Risk:
Compendium of Promising Strategies and Programmes from Around the World.” Paper presented at
the 11th United Nations Congress on Crime and Criminal Justice, Bangkok, April 18–25.
———. 2008. “Crime Prevention and Community Safety: Trends and Perspectives.” International Centre
for the Prevention of Crime, Montreal.
International Crisis Group. 1999. “Macedonia: Towards Destabilization?” Europe Report 67, International Crisis Group, Brussels.
———. 2003. “Serbia After Djindjic.” Europe Briefing 46, International Crisis Group, Brussels.
———. 2005. “Aceh: So Far So Good.” Asia Briefing 44, International Crisis Group, Brussels.
———. 2007. “Burundi: Finalizing Peace with the FNL.” Africa Report 131, International Crisis Group,
Brussels.
———. 2008a. “Guinea-Bissau: In Need of a State.” Africa Report 142, International Crisis Group,
Brussels.
———. 2008b. “Kenya in Crisis.” Africa Report 137, International Crisis Group, Brussels.
———. 2009a. “Congo: Five Priorities for a Peacebuilding Strategy.” Africa Report 150, International
Crisis Group, Brussels.
———. 2009b. “Guinea-Bissau: Building a Real Stability Pact.” Africa Briefing 57, International Crisis
Group, Brussels.
———. 2009c. “Yemen: Defusing the Saada Time Bomb.” Middle East Report 86, International Crisis
Group, Brussels.
———. 2009d. “Zimbabwe: Engaging the Inclusive Government.” Africa Briefing 59, International Crisis
Group, Brussels.
International Dialogue on Peacebuilding and Statebuilding. 2010. “Dili Declaration and Annex: Statement by the g7+.” International Dialogue on Peacebuilding and Statebuilding, Dili.
Intscher, Horst. 2010. “Financial Intelligence Unit Capabilities.” Background note for the WDR 2011.
IRIN (UN Integrated Regional Information Networks). 2005. “Guinea-Bissau: Donors to Firm up Aid
Pledges after 2005 Presidential Election.” UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs,
Bissau.
———. 2009. “South Africa 2009: Land Reform: Same Problem, Different Approach.” UN Office for
the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, Johannesburg.
———. 2010. “Kenya-Somalia: Insecurity without Borders.” UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, Garissa/Mandera.
Jahr, Nicholas. 2010. “Can Liberia’s Anti-corruption Program Serve as New Model?” World Politics
Review, May 14.
Jayaraman, Anuja, Tesfayi Gebreselassie, and S. Chandrasekhar. 2009. “Effect of Conflict on Age at Marriage and Age at First Birth in Rwanda.” Population Research and Policy Review 28 (5): 551–67.
Jeffries, Richard, and Clare Thomas. 1993. “The Ghanaian Elections of 1992.” African Affairs 92 (368):
331–66.
Jervis, Robert. 1978. “Cooperation under the Security Dilemma.” World Politics 30 (2): 167–214.
Jeyaseelan, L., Shuba Kumar, Nithya Neelakantan, Abraham Peedicayil, Rajamohanam Pillai, and Nata
Duvvury. 2007. “Physical Spousal Violence against Women in India: Some Risk Factors.” Journal of
Biosocial Science 39 (5): 657–70.
Jha, Prashant. 2010. “Politics and Violence in the Tarai.” Background note for the WDR 2011.
Johnston, Michael. 2010. “Anti-Corruption Strategies in Fragile States.” Background paper for the WDR
2011.
Jones, Bruce D. 1999. “Military Intervention in Rwanda’s Two Wars: Partisanship and Indifference.” In
Civil Wars, Insecurity, and Intervention, ed. Barbara F. Walter and Jack Snyder. New York: Columbia
University Press.
Jones, Bruce D., Richard Gowan, and Jake Sherman. 2009. “Building on Brahimi: Peacekeeping in an Era
of Strategic Uncertainty.” Center on International Cooperation, New York University, New York.
Jones, David S. 2009.“Public Procurement in Cambodia.” In International Handbook of Public Procurement, ed. Khi V. Thai. Boca Raton, FL: Auerbach Publications.

References

Jones, Sam. 2008. “Sustaining Growth in the Long Term.” In Post-stabilization Economics in Sub-Saharan
Africa: Lessons from Mozambique, ed. Jean A. P Clément and Shanaka J. Peiris. Washington, DC:
International Monetary Fund.
Jordan, David C. 1999. Drug Politics: Dirty Money and Democracies. Norman, OK: University of Oklahoma Press.
Jornal O Globo. 2010. “Cálculo Mostra ser Viável Beneficiar com UPPs Moradores de Todas as Favelas
do Rio.” Jornal O Globo, December 14.
Justino, Patricia, and Philip Verwimp. 2008. “Poverty Dynamics, Violent Conflict and Convergence in
Rwanda.” Research Working Paper 4, MICROCON, Brighton, U.K.
Kalyvas, Stathis. 2006. The Logic of Violence in Civil War. New York: Cambridge University Press.
Kambuwa, Marvin, and Malcolm Wallis. 2002. “Performance Management and Integrated Development
Planning in South Africa.” Paper presented at the Twenty-Fourth Round Table Conference of the African Association for Public Administration and Management (AAPAM). Maseru, November 25–29.
Kang, David. 2002. Crony Capitalism: Corruption and Development in South Korea and the Philippines.
Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge University Press.
Kanungo, Prameeta. 2004. “Public Expenditure Tracking Surveys: Application in Uganda, Tanzania,
Ghana, and Honduras.” Working Paper 51468, World Bank, Washington, DC.
Kaplan, Seth D. 2008. Fixing Fragile States: A New Paradigm for Development. Westport, CT: Praeger
Security International.
Kaufmann, Daniel, Aart Kraay, and Massimo Mastruzzi. 2010a. “Governance Matters 2009: Worldwide
Governance Indicators 1996–2008.” World Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2010b. “The Worldwide Governance Indicators: Methodology and Analytical Issues.” Policy
Research Working Paper 5430, World Bank, Washington, DC.
Kawagoe, Toshihiko. 1999. “Agricultural Land Reform in Postwar Japan: Experiences and Issues.” Policy
Research Working Paper 2111, World Bank, Washington, DC.
Kawai, Masahiro, and Shinji Takagi. 2004. “Japan’s Official Development Assistance: Recent Issues and
Future Directions.” Journal of International Development 16 (2): 255–80.
Keefer, Philip. 2008. “Insurgency and Credible Commitment in Autocracies and Democracies.” The
World Bank Economic Review 22 (1): 33–61.
———. Forthcoming. “Why Follow the Leader? Action, Credible Commitment and Conflict.” In Oxford Handbook of the Economics of Peace and Conflict, ed. Michelle Garfinkel and Stergios Skaperdas.
Oxford, U.K.: Oxford University Press.
Keefer, Philip, Eric Neumayer, and Thomas Plümper. 2010. “Earthquake Propensity and the Politics of
Mortality Prevention.” Policy Research Working Paper 5182, World Bank, Washington, DC.
Keita, Kalifa. 1998. “Conflict and Conflict Resolution in the Sahel: The Tuareg Insurgency in Mali.”
Strategic Studies Institute, U.S. Army War College, Carlisle, PA.
Kelley, Judith G. 2004. Ethnic Politics in Europe: The Power of Norms and Incentives. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
Kelly, Jocelyn. 2010. “Rape in War: Motives for Militia in DRC.” USIP Special Report 243, United States
Institute of Peace, Washington, DC.
Kenya Ministry of Public Health and Sanitation. 2007. “An Estimate of the Economic Costs of Injuries
Due to Interpersonal and Self-Directed Violence in Kenya, 2007.” Government of Kenya. Nairobi.
Processed.
Kharas, Homi. 2008. “Measuring the Cost of Aid Volatility.” Wolfensohn Centre for Development Working Paper 3, Brookings Institution, Washington, DC.
Kilcullen, David. 2009. The Accidental Guerrilla: Fighting Small Wars in the Midst of a Big One. New York:
Oxford University Press.
Killick, Tony, Carlos N. Castel-Branco, and Richard Gerster. 2005. “Perfect Partners? The Performance
of Programme Aid Partners in Mozambique, 2004.” Programme Aid Partners; U.K. Department for
International Development, Maputo.
Kimani, Mwaura. 2008. “Kenya: MPs Push for Cut in Cabinet Size.” Norweigian Council of Africa: Africa
News Update, May 15.
Kimberley Process Certification Scheme. 2009. “Kimberley Process Rough Diamond Statistics.” Kimberley Process Certification Scheme, Kinshasa.
———. 2010. “The Kimberley Process.” Kimberley Process Certification Scheme, Kinshasa. http://www.
kimberleyprocess.com.

315

316

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

Kimhi, Shaul, and Shemuel Even. 2004. “Who Are the Palestinian Suicide Bombers?” Terrorism and Political Violence 16 (4): 815–40.
Kingah, Petronilla K., and Stephen S. Kingah. 2010. “African Traditions and the Modern Human Rights
Mechanisms: The Case for Women in Cameroon and Africa.” Cameroon Journal on Democracy and
Human Rights 4 (2): 81–105.
Kingma, Kees. 1997. “Post-War Demobilization and the Reintegration of Ex-combatants into Civilian
Life.” Paper presented at the USAID Conference: Promoting Democracy, Human Rights, and Reintegration in Post-conflict Societies, Washington, DC, October 30–31.
Kireyev, Alexei. 2006. “The Macroeconomics of Remittances: The Case of Tajikistan.” IMF Working Paper
06/2, International Monetary Fund, Washington, DC.
Knox, Colin. 1996. “Emergence of Power Sharing in Northern Ireland: Lessons from Local Government.”
Journal of Conflict Studies 16 (1): 7–29.
Kohlmann, Evan F. 2004. Al-Qaida’s Jihad in Europe: The Afghan-Bosnian Network. Oxford, U.K.: Berg.
Korski, Daniel, and Richard Gowan. 2009. “Can the EU Rebuild Failing States? A Review of Europe’s
Civilian Capacities.” European Council on Foreign Relations, London.
Kramer, Annika. 2008. “Regional Water Cooperation and Peacebuilding in the Middle East.” Initiative for
Peacebuilding; Adelphi Research, Brussels.
Kreimer, Alcira, John Eriksson, Robert Muscat, Margaret Arnold, and Colin Scott. 1998. “The World
Bank’s Experience with Post-conflict Reconstruction.” World Bank, Washington, DC.
Krishnan, Suneeta, Corinne H. Rocca, Allan E. Hubbard, Kalyani Subbiah, Jeffrey Edmeades, and Nancy
S. Padian. 2010. “Do Changes in Spousal Employment Status Lead to Domestic Violence? Insights
from a Prospective Study in Bangalore, India.” Social Science and Medicine 70 (1): 136–43.
Krueger, Alan B., and David L. Laitin. 2008. “Kto-Kogo?: A Cross-Country Study of the Origins and
Targets of Terrorism.” In Terrorism, Economic Development, and Political Openness, ed. Philip Keefer
and Norman Loayza. New York: Cambridge University Press.
Krueger, Alan B., and Jitka Maleckova. 2003. “Education, Poverty, and Terrorism: Is There a Causal Connection?” Journal of Economic Perspectives 17 (4): 119–44.
Kubicek, Paul J., ed. 2003. The European Union and Democratization. London: Routledge.
Kumar, Vimal, and Stergios Skaperdas. 2009. “On the Economics of Organized Crime.” In Criminal Law
and Economics, ed. Nuno Garoupa. Northampton, MA: Edward Elgar Publishing.
Kuzio, Taras. 2006. “Civil Society, Youth and Societal Mobilization in Democratic Revolutions.” Communist and Post Communist Studies 39 (3): 365–86.
La Porta, Rafael, Florencio Lopez-de-Silanes, Andrei Shleifer, and Robert Vishny. 1999. “The Quality of
Government.” Journal of Law, Economics, and Organization 15 (1): 222–79.
Lacina, Bethany, and Nils P. Gleditsch. 2005. “Monitoring Trends in Global Combat: A New Dataset of
Battle Deaths 2005.” European Journal of Population 21 (2–3): 145–66.
Lacina, Bethany, Nils P. Gleditsch, and Bruce Russett. 2006. “The Declining Risk of Death in Battle.”
International Studies Quarterly 50 (3): 673–80.
Laitin, David D. 1998. Identity in Formation: The Russian-Speaking Populations in the Near Abroad. Ithaca,
NY: Cornell University Press.
———. 2000. “What Is a Language Community?” American Journal of Political Science 44 (1): 142–55.
———. 2007. Nations, States, and Violence. New York: Oxford University Press.
Lamb, Guy, and Dominique Dye. 2009. “Security Promotion and DDR: Linkages between ISM, DDR,
and SSR within a Broader Peacebuilding Framework.” Congeso Internacional de Desarme, Demovilización y Reintegración, Cartagena, Colombia; Republic of Colombia, Cartagena, Colombia.
Langer, Arnim. 2005. “Horizontal Inequalities and Violent Group Mobilization in Côte d’Ivoire.” Oxford
Development Studies 33 (1): 25–45.
Latinobarómetro. 2009. “Latinobarómetro: Opinion Pública Latinoamericana.” Latinobarómetro, Santiago. http://www.latinobarometro.org.
Lawson, Sam, and Larry MacFaul. 2010. “Illegal Logging and Related Trade: Indicators of the Global
Response.” Chatham House, London.
Lemay-Hébert, Nicolas. 2009. “UNPOL and Police Reform in Timor-Leste: Accomplishments and Setbacks.” International Peacekeeping 16 (3): 393–406.
Leslie, Glaister. 2010. “Confronting the Don: The Political Economy of Gang Violence in Jamaica.” Occasional Paper 26, Small Arms Survey, Graduate Institute of International and Development Studies,
Geneva.

References

Lewis, Dustin A. 2009. “Unrecognized Victims: Sexual Violence against Men in Conflict Settings under
International Law.” Wisconsin International Law Journal 27 (1): 1–49.
Li, Quan, and Ming Wen. 2005. “The Immediate and Lingering Effects of Armed Conflict on Adult Mortality: A Time-Series Cross-National Analysis.” Journal of Peace Research 42 (4): 471–92.
Lijphart, Arend. 1969. “Consociational Democracy.” World Politics 21 (2): 207–25.
———. 1977. Democracy in Plural Societies: A Comparative Exploration. New Haven, CT: Yale University
Press.
Linn, Johannes, and Oksana Pidufala. 2008. “The Experience with Regional Economic Cooperation
Organizations: Lessons for Central Asia.” Wolfensohn Center for Development Working Paper 4,
Brookings Institution, Washington, DC.
Lipman, Janna. 2009. “Charles Taylor’s Criminal Network, Exploiting Diamonds and Children.” Graduate Student Research, Terrorism, Transnational Crime and Corruption Center, George Mason University. Fairfax, VA. Processed.
Lipton, Michael. 2009. Land Reform in Developing Countries: Property Rights and Property Wrongs. New
York: Routledge.
Llorente, Maria V., and Angela Rivas. 2005. “Case Study of Reduction of Crime in Bogotá: A Decade of
Citizen’s Security Policies.” Policy Research Working Paper, World Bank, Washington, DC.
Loayza, Norman, Pablo Fajnzylber, and Daniel Lederman. 2002a. “Inequality and Violent Crime.” Journal of Law and Economics 45 (1): 1–40.
———. 2002b. “What Causes Violent Crime?”European Economic Review 46 (7): 1323–57.
Lockhart, Clare. 2010. “EU Accession: Norms and Incentives.” Background note for the WDR 2011.
Lockhart, Clare, and Blair Glencorse. 2010. “Afghanistan and Its Neighbors: State-Building and State
Failure in the Post-Taliban Period.” Background paper for the WDR 2011.
Lopes, Ibere. 2009. “Land and Displacement in Timor-Leste.” Humanitarian Exchange Magazine 43:
12–4.
Lund, Michael. 2010. Engaging Fragile States: An International Policy Primer. Washington, DC: Woodrow
Wilson International Center for Scholars.
Lupsha, Peter A. 1991. “Drug Lords and Narco-Corruption: The Players Change but the Game Continues.” Crime, Law, and Social Change 16 (1): 41–58.
Lustick, Ian S., Dan Miodownik, and Roy J. Eidelson. 2004. “Secessionism in Multicultural States: Does
Sharing Power Prevent or Encourage It?” American Political Science Review 98 (2): 209–29.
Lutz, Ellen L., and Caitlin Reiger, eds. 2009. Prosecuting Heads of State. New York: Cambridge University
Press.
Mac Sweeney, Naoise. 2008. “Private Sector Development in Post-conflict Countries: A Review of Current Literature and Practice.” The Donor Committee for Enterprise Development, Cambridge, U.K.
Mack, Andrew. 2003. “Re-building Business: The World Bank and Private Sector Development in Postconflict Nations.” World Bank, Washington, DC.
Macmillan, Ross, and Rosemary Gartner. 1999. “When She Brings Home the Bacon: Labor-Force Participation and the Risk of Spousal Violence against Women.” Journal of Marriage and Family 61 (4):
947–58.
Manning, Carrie, and Monica Malbrough. 2009. “Learning the Right Lessons from Mozambique’s Transition to Peace.” Taiwan Journal of Democracy 5 (1): 77–91.
Mansfield, Edward D., and Jack Snyder, eds. 2005. Electing to Fight: Why Emerging Democracies Go to
War. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Markowski, Stefan, Stephanie Koorey, Peter Hall, and Jurgen Brauer. 2009. “Multi-channel Supply Chain
for Illicit Small Arms.” Defence and Peace Economics 20 (3): 171–91.
Marsh, Nicholas. 2002. “Two Sides of the Same Coin: The Legal and Illegal Trade in Small Arms.” Brown
Journal of World Affairs 9 (1): 217–28.
Martin, Philippe, Thierry Mayer, and Mathias Thoenig. 2008. “Civil Wars and International Trade.” Journal of the European Economic Association 6: 541–55.
Mas, Ignacio, and Dan Radcliffe. 2010. “Mobile Payments Go Viral: M-PESA in Kenya.” Bill and Melinda
Gates Foundation, Seattle, WA.
Mason, Ann. 2003. “Colombia’s Democratic Security Agenda: Public Order in the Security Tripod.”
Security Dialogue 34 (4): 391–409.
Mata, Javier F., and Sebastian Ziaja. 2009. “Users’ Guide on Measuring Fragility.” Deutches Institut für
Entwicklungspolitik, Oslo; UN Development Programme, New York.

317

318

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

Mattero, Minna, and Charmagne Campbell-Patton. 2008. “Measuring the Impact of Youth Voluntary
Service Programs: Summary and Conclusions of the International Experts’ Meeting.” World Bank,
Washington, DC; Innovations in Civic Participation, Washington, DC.
Matveeva, Anna. 2007. “The Regionalist Project in Central Asia: Unwilling Playmates.” CSRC Series 2,
Working Paper 13, Crisis States Research Centre, London School of Economics and Political Science,
London.
Mayer-Rieckh, Alexander, and Pablo de Greiff, eds. 2007. Justice as Prevention: Vetting Public Employees
in Transitional Societies. New York: Social Sciences Research Council: International Center for Transitional Justice.
Maynard, Kimberly A. 1997. “Rebuilding Community: Psychosocial Healing, Reintegration, and Reconciliation at the Grassroots Level.” In Rebuilding Societies After Civil War: Critical Roles for International
Assistance, ed. Krishna Kumar. Boulder, CO: Lynne Rienner.
McCall, John C. 2004. “Juju and Justice at the Movies: Vigilantes in Nigerian Popular Videos.” African
Studies Review 47 (3): 51–67.
McCandless, Erin. 2008. “Lessons from Liberia Integrated Approaches to Peacebuilding in Transitional
Settings.” ISS Occasional Paper 160, Institute for Security Studies, Pretoria.
McCauley, Cynthia D., and Ellen Van Velsor, eds. 2004. The Center for Creative Leadership Handbook of
Leadership Development. San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass.
McLeod, Darryl, and Maria E. Dávalos. 2008. “Post-conflict Employment Creation for Stabilization and
Poverty Reduction.” UN Development Programme, New York.
McNeish, John-Andrew. 2010. “Natural Resource Management: Rethinking Resource Conflict.” Background paper for the WDR 2011.
MDRP (Multi-Country Demobilization and Reintegration Program). 2006. “Reinsertion: Bridging the
Gap between Demobilization and Reintegration.” MDRP, Washington, DC.
Mehta, Pratap B. 2010. “Some Notes on Conflicts and Decentralisation in India.” Background note for
the WDR 2011.
Meidan, Michal. 2006. “China’s Africa Policy: Business Now, Politics Later.” Asian Perspective 30 (4): 69–93.
Mejia, Daniel, and Daniel M. Rico. 2010. “La Microeconomía de la Producción y Tráfico de Cocaína en
Colombia.” Universidad de los Andes, Bogotá; El Centro de Estudios sobre Desarrollo Económico,
Bogotá.
Meléndez, Quiñónez. 2007. “Una Visión sobre la Situación de la Seguridad en Nicaragua, Costa Rica y
Panamá.” Instituto de Estudios Estrategicos y Politicas Públicas. Managua. Processed.
Melville, Amanda. 2003. “Psychosocial Interventions: Evaluations of UNICEF Supported Projects (1999–
2001).” UN Children’s Fund Indonesia, Jakarta.
Menkhaus, Ken. 2006. “Governance without Government in Somalia: Spoilers, State Building, and the
Politics of Coping.” International Security 31 (3): 74–106.
———. 2010. “Somalia and the Horn of Africa.” Background paper for the WDR 2011.
Menon, Nidhiya, and Yana van der Meulen Rodgers. 2010. “War and Women’s Work: Evidence from the
Conflict in Nepal.” Working Paper Series 19, Department of Economics and International Businesss
School, Brandeis University, Waltham, MA.
Messick, Richard. 2011. “Anti-Corruption Approaches in Nigeria and Haiti.” Background note for the
WDR 2011.
Messner, Steven F., Lawrence E. Raffalovich, and Peter Shrock. 2002. “Reassessing the Cross-National
Relationship between Income Inequality and Homicide Rates: Implications of Data Quality Control
in the Measurement of Income Distribution.”Journal of Quantitative Criminology 18 (4): 377–95.
Michailof, Serge. 2007. “Review of Technical Assistance and Capacity Building in Afghanistan: Discussion
Paper for the Afghanistan Development Forum.” World Bank, Kabul.
Michalcik, Vladislav, and Ceara Riggs. 2007. “People Power: Country Studies and Lessons Learned from
National Non-Violent Movements 2003–2005.” Occasional Paper 18, Institute for Multi-Track
Diplomacy, Washington, DC.
Mills, Rob, and Qimiao Fan. 2006. “The Investment Climate in Post-conflict Situations.” Policy Research
Working Paper 4055, World Bank, Washington, DC.
Mobekk, Eirin. 2010. “Gender, Women and Security Sector Reform.” International Peacekeeping 17 (2):
278–91.
Mondo, Emilio. 1995. “Uganda’s Experience in National Management of Demobilisation and Reintegration.” Paper presented at the Workshop on Demobilisation in South Africa, Institute for Defence

References

Policy; The Hanns Seidel Foundation; and the German Agency for Technical Cooperation (GTZ),
Pretoria, May 17–18.
Montalvo, José G., and Marta Reynal-Querol. 2005. “Ethnic Polarization, Potential Conflict, and Civil
Wars.” American Economic Review 95 (3): 796–816.
Montgomery, Michael. 2010. “India’s Diamond Industry Strengthening.” Diamond Investing News,
March 15.
Moran, Mary H., and M. Anne Pitcher. 2004. “The ‘Basket Case’ and the ‘Poster Child’: Explaining the
End of Civil Conflicts in Liberia and Mozambique.” Third World Quarterly 25 (3): 501–19.
Morel, Adrian, Makiko Watanabe, and Rob Wrobel. 2009. “Delivering Assistance to Conflict-Affected
Communities: The BRA-KDP Program in Aceh.” Indonesian Social Development Paper 13, World
Bank, Jakarta.
Morfit, Michael. 2007. “The Road to Helsinki: The Aceh Agreement and Indonesia’s Democratic Development.” International Negotiation 12 (1): 111–43.
Morozzo Della Rocca, Roberto. 2003. Mozambique: Achieving Peace in Africa. Washington, DC: Georgetown University Press.
Morozzo Della Rocca, Roberto, and Luca Riccardi. 2003. “The Peace Process in Mozambique.” In Community and the State in Lusophone Africa, ed. Malyn Newitt, Patrick Chabal, and Norrie Macqueen.
London: King’s College.
Moser, Caroline O. N. 2009.Ordinary Families, Extraordinary Lives: Assets and Poverty Reduction in
Guayaquil, 1978–2004. Washington, DC: Brookings Institution.
Mosse, Marcelo. 2007. “Corruption and Reform in the Customs in Mozambique.” Centro de Integridade
Publica, Maputo.
MSR (Multi-Stakeholder Review). 2009. “Multi-Stakeholder Review of Post-conflict Programming in
Aceh: Identifying the Foundations for Sustainable Peace and Development in Aceh.” MSR, Jakarta.
Mufson, Steven. 2009. “Nigerian Rebels Drive Up Oil Prices.” Washington Post, June 30.
Mungiu-Pippidi, Alina, and Igor Munteanu. 2009. “Moldova’s ‘Twitter Revolution.’” Journal of Democracy 20 (3): 136–42.
Muñoz, Mercedes G. 2010. “Las Jornadas de Trabajo en Las Empresas de Seguridad Privada: Flexibilidad Laboral o un Sistema de Explotación del Sudor?” Diálogos Revista Electrónica de Historia 11
(2): 233–63.
Murdoch, James C., and Todd Sandler. 2002. “Economic Growth, Civil Wars, and Spatial Spillovers.”
Journal of Conflict Resolution 46 (1): 91–110.
———. 2004. “Civil Wars and Economic Growth: Spatial Dispersion.” American Journal of Political
Science 48 (1): 138–51.
Murphy, Helen. 2008. “Colombians Stage ‘Million Voices’ March Against FARC: Update 3.” Bloomberg,
February 4.
Murray, Christopher J. L., Gary King, Alan D. Lopez, Niels Tomijima, and Etienne G. Krug. 2002. “Armed
Conflict as a Public Health Problem.” British Medical Journal 324 (7333): 346–49.
Murshed, S. Mansoob, and Scott Gates. 2006. “Spatial-Horizontal Inequality and the Maoist Insurgency
in Nepal.” In Spatial Disparities in Human Development, ed. Ravi Kanbur, Anthony Venables, and
Guanghua Wan . Tokyo: UN University Press.
Murshed, S. Mansoob, and Mohammad Z. Tadjoeddin. 2007. “Reappraising the Greed and Grievance
Explanations for Violent Internal Conflict.” Research Working Paper 2, MICROCON, Brighton,
U.K.
Naim, Moises. 2006. Illicit: How Smugglers, Traffickers, and Copycats Are Hijacking the Global Economy.
New York: Anchor.
Narayan, Deepa, and Patti Petesch, eds. 2010. Moving Out of Poverty: Rising from the Ashes of Conflict.
Washington, DC: World Bank.
Nathan, Laurie. 2005. “The Frightful Inadequacy of Most of the Statistics: A Critique of Collier and
Hoeffler on Causes of Civil War.” Discussion Paper 11, Crisis States Research Centre, London School
of Economics and Political Science, London.
National Academy of Public Administration. 2006. “Why Foreign Aid to Haiti Failed: A Summary Report of the National Academy of Public Administration.” Academy International Affairs Working
Paper 06-04, National Academy of Public Administration, Washington, DC.

319

320

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

National Counterterrorism Center. 2010. “Worldwide Incidents Tracking System.” National Counterterrorism Center, McLean, VA. http://wits.nctc.gov.
National Intelligence Council. 2000. “National Intelligence Estimate: Global Infectious Disease Threat
and Its Implications for the United States.” National Intelligence Council, Washington, DC.
Natural Resource Charter. 2010. “The Twelve Precepts.” Natural Resource Charter, London. http://www.
naturalresourcecharter.org.
Navarro, Marysa. 2001. “The Personal Is Political: Las Madres de Plaza de Mayo.” In Power and Popular
Protest: Latin American Social Movements, ed. Susan Eckstein. Berkeley, CA: University of California
Press.
Ndegwa, Stephen, and Brian Levy. 2004. “The Politics of Decentralization in Africa: A Comparative Analysis.” In Building State Capacity in Africa: New Approaches, Emerging Lessons, ed. Brian Levy and Sahr
Kpundeh. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Ndulo, Muna B. 2009. “The United Nations Responses to the Sexual Abuse and Exploitation of Women
and Girls by Peacekeepers during Peacekeeping Missions.” Berkeley Journal of International Law 27:
127–61.
NEPAD (The New Partnership for Africa’s Development). 2010. “African Peer Review Mechanism
(APRM).” NEPAD, Midrand. http://www.nepad.org.
Neumayer, Eric. 2003. “Good Policy Can Lower Violent Crime: Evidence from a Cross-National Panel on
Homicide Rates, 1980–97.” Journal of Peace Research 40 (6): 619–40.
New York University Center on International Cooperation. 2009. Annual Review of Global Peace Operations 2009. Boulder, CO: Lynne Rienner.
Nilsson, Desirée. 2008. “Partial Peace: Rebel Groups Inside and Outside of Civil War Settlements.” Journal
of Peace Research 45 (4): 479–95.
Nilsson, Desirée, and Anna K. Jarstad. 2008. “From Words to Deeds: The Implementation of PowerSharing Pacts in Peace Accords.” Conflict Management and Peace Science 25 (3): 206–23.
Nitsch, Volker, and Dieter Schumacher. 2004. “Terrorism and International Trade: An Empirical Investigation.” European Journal of Political Economy 20 (2): 423–33.
North, Douglass C. 1989. “Institutions and Economic Growth: An Historical Introduction.” World Development 17 (9): 1319–32.
———. 1990. Institutions, Institutional Change and Economic Performance. New York: Cambridge University Press.
———. 1995. “The New Institutional Economics and Third World Development.” In The New Institutional Economics and Third World Development, ed. John Harris, Janet Hunter, and Colin M. Lewis.
London: Routledge.
North, Douglass C., John J. Wallis, and Barry R. Weingast. 2009. Violence and Social Orders: A Conceptual
Framework for Interpreting Recorded Human History. New York: Cambridge University Press.
Northouse, Peter G. 2008. Introduction to Leadership: Concepts and Practice. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage
Publications, Inc.
Nossal, Kim R. 1999. “Liberal-Democratic Regimes, International Sanctions, and Global Governance.”
In Globalization and Global Governance, ed. Raimo Väyrynen. Lanham, MD: Rowman and Littlefield
Publishers.
Nunn, Nathan. 2008. “The Long-Term Effects of Africa’s Slave Trades.” Quarterly Journal of Economics
123 (1): 139–76.
Nunn, Nathan, and Leonard Wantchekon. Forthcoming. “The Slave Trade and the Origins of Mistrust in
Africa.” American Economic Review.
Nwana, Harry. 2000. “Who Are the Bakassi Boys?” Vanguard, December 28.
O Dia Online. 2010. “Rio Assina Convênio para Investimentos Privados nas UPPs.” O Dia Online,
August 24.
O’Loughlin, John, Frank D. W. Witmer, and Andrew M. Linke. 2010. “The Afghanistan-Pakistan Wars,
2008–2009: Micro-geographies, Conflict Diffusion, and Clusters of Violence.” Eurasian Geography
and Economics 51 (4): 437–71.
OAS (Organization of American States). 2001. “Inter-American Democratic Charter.” OAS, Lima.
Odendaal, Andries. 2010. “Local Peacebuilding in Ghana.” Paper presented at the Experience-sharing
Seminar on Building Infrastructures for Peace, Naivasha, Kenya, February 2–4.
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development). 1996. “Recommendation of the
Council on the Tax Deductibility of Bribes to Foreign Public Officials.” OECD, Paris.

References

———. 2004. “Lessons Learned on Donor Support to Decentralisation and Local Governance.” OECD,
Paris.
———. 2007. “Enhancing the Delivery of Justice and Security.” OECD, Paris.
———. 2008. “Sierra Leone.” In 2008 Survey on Monitoring the Paris Declaration: Making Aid More
Effective by 2010, ed. OECD. Accra: OECD.
———. 2009. “Recommendation of the Council on Tax Measures for Further Combating Bribery of
Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions.” OECD, Paris.
———. 2010a. “Do No Harm: International Support for Statebuilding.” OECD, Paris.
———. 2010b. “Focus on Aid to Agriculture.” OECD, Paris. http://www.oecd.org/dac/stats/agriculture.
———. 2010c. “Monitoring the Principles for Good International Engagement in Fragile States and
Situations: Fragile States Principles Monitoring Survey Global Report.” OECD, Paris.
———. 2010d. “OECD Stat Extracts.” OECD, Paris. http://stats.oecd.org.
———. 2010e. “Second Round of Monitoring: Georgia Monitoring Report.” Anti-Corruption Network
for Eastern Europe and Central Asia, Istanbul Anti-Corruption Action Plan, OECD, Paris.
———. 2010f. “South-South Cooperation in the Context of Aid Effectiveness: Telling the Story of Partners Involved in More Than 110 Cases of South-South and Triangular Cooperation.” OECD, Paris.
———. 2010g. “The State’s Legitimacy in Fragile Situations: Unpacking Complexity.” OECD, Paris.
———. 2010h. “Towards Clean Minerals from Conflict Zones.” OECD, Paris.
———. 2010i. “Transition Financing: Building a Better Response.” OECD, Paris.
———. 2011. “Supporting Statebuilding in Situations of Conflict and Fragility: Policy Guidance.”
OECD, Paris.
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development), and WTO (World Trade Organization). 2008. “Japan.” In Aid for Trade at a Glance 2007: Country and Agency Chapters, ed. OECD
and WTO. Paris: OECD; Geneva: WTO.
OECD-DAC (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development–Develompent Assistance
Committee). 2006. “Whole of Government Approaches to Fragile States.” OECD-DAC, Paris.
———. 2007a. “OECD-DAC Handbook on Security System Reform: Supporting Security and Justice.”
OECD-DAC, Paris.
———. 2007b. “Principles for Good International Engagement in Fragile States and Situations.” OECDDAC, Paris.
———. 2008. “Scaling Up: Aid Fragmentation, Aid Allocation, and Aid Predictability: Report of 2008
Survey of Aid Allocation Policies and Indicative Forward Spending Plans.” OECD-DAC, Paris.
———. 2010a. “Aid Risks in Fragile and Transitional Contexts: Key Messages from the Forthcoming
Publication Aid Risks in Fragile and Transitional Contexts.” International Network on Conflict and
Fragility, OECD-DAC, Paris.
———. 2010b. “Resource Flows to Fragile and Conflict-Affected States: Annual Report 2008.” International Network on Conflict and Fragility, OECD-DAC, Paris.
Office of the High Representative and European Union Special Representative. 2011. “Basic Information.” Office of the High Representative; European Union Special Representative, Sarajevo. http://
www.ohr.int.
Ojielo, Ozonnia. 2007. “Designing an Architecture for Peace: A Framework of Conflict Transformation
in Ghana.” Paper presented at the First Biennial Conference and General Assembly of the Society for
Peace Studies and Practice, Abuja, January 22–25.
Olcott, Martha B. 2010. “Rivalry and Competition in Central Asia: Bringing People Together to Accelerate Growth and Well-Being in Emerging Markets.” Paper presented at the Eurasia Emerging Markets
Forum, Thun, Switzerland, January 23–25.
Oliver, Johanna. 1999. “The Esquipulas Process: A Central American Paradigm for Resolving Regional
Conflict.” Ethnic Studies Report 17 (2): 149–79.
Orentlicher, Diane. 2004. “Independent Study on Best Practices, Including Recommendations, to Assist
States in Strengthening Their Domestic Capacity to Combat All Aspects of Impunity.” UN Economic
and Social Council, New York.
———. 2005. “Report of the Independent Expert to Update the Set of Principles to Combat Impunity.”
UN Economic and Social Council, New York.
Organization of African Unity. 2000. “Lomé Declaration on the Framework for an OAU Response to
Unconstitutional Change of Government.” Organization of African Unity, Lomé.

321

322

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

Østby, Gudrun. 2008. “Inequalities, the Political Environment and Civil Conflict: Evidence from 55 Developing Countries.” In Horizontal Inequalities and Conflict: Understanding Group Violence in Multiethnic Societies, ed. Frances Stewart. Basingstoke, U.K.: Palgrave Macmillan.
Otocan, Mariano. 2010. “Euroregion as a Mechanism for Strengthening Transfrontier and Interregional
Co-operation: Opportunities and Challenges.” Paper presented at the European Commission for
Democracy Through Law (Venice Commission) and Council of Europe’s Interregional and Transfrontier Co-operation: Promoting Democratic Stability and Development Seminar, Trieste, Italy,
February 22–25.
Oxford Reference Online. 2001. “The Oxford Companion to the Politics of the World.” Oxford University
Press. http://www.oxfordreference.com.
Pacific Island Forum Secretariat. 2005. “The Pacific Plan for Strengthening Regional Cooperation and
Integration.” Pacific Island Forum Secretariat, Fiji.
Padilla, Felix M. 1992.The Gang as an American Enterprise. Piscataway, NJ: Rutgers University Press.
Pakistan Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. 2010. “Promise, Policy, Performance: Two Years of
People’s Government 2008–2010.” Government of Pakistan, Islamabad, Pakistan.
Pan, Esther. 2005. “Middle East: Reorganizing the Palestinian Security Forces.” Council on Foreign Relations, Washington, DC.
Panda, Pradeep, and Bina Agarwal. 2005. “Marital Violence, Human Development and Women’s Property Status in India.” World Development 33 (5): 823–50.
Papagianni, Katia. 2009. “Political Transitions after Peace Agreements: The Importance of Consultative
and Inclusive Political Processes.” Journal of Intervention and Statebuilding 3 (1): 47–63.
Pape, Robert R. 2003. “The Strategic Logic of Suicide Terrorism.” American Political Science Review 97
(3): 343–61.
Paris, Roland. 2004. At War’s End: Building Peace after Civil Conflict. New York: Cambridge University
Press.
Parker, Joan C. 2008.“A Synthesis of Practical Lessons from Value Chain Projects in Conflict-Affected
Environments.” Micro Report 105, U.S. Agency for International Development, Washington, DC.
Parson, Devin. 2010. “In the Wrong Hands: Los Zetas and the Gun Laws that Help Them Thrive.” Council
on Hemispheric Affairs, Washington, DC.
Patel, Ana C., Pablo de Greiff, and Lars Waldorf, eds. 2009. Disarming the Past: Transitional Justice and
Ex-combatants. New York: Social Science Research Council.
Patel, Seema, and Steven Ross. 2007. “Breaking Point: Measuring Progress in Afghanistan.” Center for
Strategic and International Studies, Washington, DC.
Patrick, Stewart. 2006. “Weak States and Global Threats: Assessing Evidence of Spillovers.” Working Paper
73, Center for Global Development, Washington, DC.
Pavanello, Sara, and Timothy Othieno. 2008. “Improving the Provision of Basic Services for the Poor in
Fragile Environments.” Overseas Development Institute, London.
Peake, Gordon, and Kaysie Studdard Brown. 2010. “Policebuilding: The International Deployment Group
in the Solomon Islands.” International Peacekeeping 12 (4): 520–32.
Peixoto, Betânia Totino, Mônica Viegas Andrade, and João Pedro Azevedo. 2007. “Avaliação Do Programa
Fica Vivo No Município De Belo Horizonte.”Associação Nacional dos Centros de Pós-Graduação em
Economia, Rio de Janeiro.
———. 2008. “Avaliação Econômica do Programa Fica Vivo: O Caso Piloto.” Textos para Discussão
Cedeplar, UFMG td336, Cedeplar, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte.
Peltz, Amelia T. 2006.“Gender Based Violence in Palestine.” MIFTAH (The Palestinian Initiative for the
Promotion of Global Dialogue and Democracy), Jerusalem.
Perry, Alex. 2008. “Congo: The Forgotten Conflict.” Time.com, June 18.
Peruvian Truth and Reconciliation Commission. 2003. “Peruvian Truth and Reconciliation Commission
Report.” Peruvian Truth and Reconciliation Commission, Lima.
Peschka, Mary. 2010. “The Role of the Private Sector in Fragile and Conflict-Affected States.” Background
paper for the WDR 2011.
Peterson, Roger, and Sarah Zuckerman. 2010. “Revenge or Reconciliation: Theory and Method of Emotions in the Context of Colombia’s Peace Process.” In Law in Peace Negotiations, ed. Morten Bergsmo
and Pablo Kalmanovitz. Oslo: Forum for International Criminal and Humanitarian Law.

References

Piron, Laure-Hélène, and Zaza Curran. 2005. “Public Policy Responses to Exclusion: Evidence from
Brazil, South Africa, and India.” Overseas Development Institute, London.
Plümper, Thomas, and Eric Neumayer. 2006. “The Unequal Burden of War: The Effect of Armed Conflict on the Gender Gap in Life Expectancy.” International Organization 60 (3): 723–54.
Popkin, Margaret. 2000. Peace Without Justice: Obstacles to Building the Rule of Law in El Salvador. University Park, PA: Pennsylvania State University Press.
Porter, Douglas, Matt Andrews, and Clay Wescott. 2010. “Public Finance Management in Fragile and
Conflicted Settings.” Background paper for the WDR 2011.
Porter, Douglas, and Habib Rab. 2010. “Timor-Leste’s Recovery from the 2006 Crisis: Some Lessons.”
Background note for the WDR 2011.
Posen, Barry. 1993. “The Security Dilemma and Ethnic Conflict.” Survival 35 (1): 27–47.
Posner, Daniel N. 2004. “Measuring Ethnic Fractionalization in Africa.” American Journal of Political
Science 48 (4): 849–63.
Potter, Antonia. 2005. “We the Women: Why Conflict Mediation is Not Just a Job for Men.” Centre for
Humanitarian Dialogue, Geneva.
Powell, Jonathan M., and Clayton L. Thyne. 2011. “Global Instances of Coups from 1950 to Present: A
New Dataset.” Journal of Peace Research 48 (2): 249–59.
Presidencia República de Colombia. 1993. “Decreto Numero 2707 de 1993.” Presidencia República de
Colombia, Bogotá.
———. 2010. “La Agencia Presidencial para la Acción Social y la Cooperation Internacional.” Presidencia República de Colombia, Bogotá. http://www.accionsocial.gov.co.
Prieto-Rodríguez, Juan, and Cesar Rodríguez-Gutiérrez. 2003. “Participation of Married Women in the
European Labor Markets and the ‘Added Worker Effect’ in Europe.” Journal of Socio-Economics 32
(4): 429–46.
Pritchett, Lant, and Frauke de Weijer. 2010. “Fragile States: Stuck in a Capability Trap?” Background
paper for the WDR 2011.
Putzel, James. 2003. “The Philippine-US Alliance in Post September 11 Southeast Asia.” In Global
Response to Terrorism: 9/11, Afghanistan and Beyond, ed. Mary Buckley and Rick Fawn. London:
Routledge.
Quinn, Michael J. 2007. “Mozambique 1975–1992.” In Civil Wars of the World: Major Conflicts since
World War II, Volume 1, ed. Karl DeRouen Jr. and Uk Heo. Santa Barbara, CA: ABC-CLIO.
Raleigh, Clionadh. 2010. “Conflict Contagion Patterns.” Background paper for the WDR 2011.
Raleigh, Clionadh, Andrew Linke, Håvard Hegre, and Joachim Carlsen. 2010. “Introducing ACLED:
An Armed Conflict Location and Event Dataset.” Journal of Peace Research 47 (5): 651–60.
RAND Corporation. 2009. “National Socioeconomic Survey (SUSENAS).” RAND Corporation, Santa
Monica, CA.
Randel, Judith. 2010. “Experience with Humanitarian Funds.” Paper presented at the OECD-INCAF/EU
Risk Management Conference, Brussels, June 15.
Randel, Judith, and Tasneem Mowjee. 2006. “Review of Trust Fund Mechanisms for Transition Financing.” Development Initiatives, Somerset, U.K.
Rehn, Elisabeth, and Ellen Johnson Sirleaf. 2002. “Violence Against Women.” In Women, War and Peace:
The Independent Experts’ Assessment on the Impact of Armed Conflict on Women and Women’s Role
in Peace Building, ed. Elizabeth Rehn and Ellen Johnson Sirleaf. NewYork: UN Development Fund
for Women.
Republic of Burundi. 2006. “Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP).” Republic of Burundi,
Bujumbura.
Republic of Lebanon Ministry of Environment. 1999. “Lebanon’s First National Communication Report.” Government of Lebanon, Beirut.
Republic of Liberia and UN (United Nations). 2007. “United Nations Development Assistance Framework Liberia 2008–2012: Consolidating Peace and National Recovery for Sustainable Development.”
Republic of Liberia; UN, Monrovia.
Reyntjens, Filip. 2007. “Briefing: Democratic Republic of Congo: Political Transition and Beyond.”
African Affairs 106 (423): 307–17.
Riascos, Alvaro J., and Juan Vargas. 2004. “Violence and Growth in Colombia: What Do We Know After
10 Years of Quantitative Research?” Webpondo.org: Recursos para Economistas & Colombia. http://
www.webpondo.org/files_ene_mar04/rgc.pdf.

323

324

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

Rich, Patricia. 2010. “Politician’s Assassination Raises Doubts over Mexico Drug Policy.” Open Security:
Contemporary Conflict. http://www.opendemocracy.net/opensecurity/security_briefings/290610.
Richards, Paul. 1996. Fighting For the Rainforest: War, Youth and Resources in Sierra Leone. Oxford, U.K.:
Heinemann Educational Books.
Roberts, Adam. 2010. “Lives and Statistics: Are 90% of War Victims Civilians?” Survival 52 (3): 115–36.
Robinson, Pearl T. 1994.“The National Conference Phenomenon in Francophone Africa.” Comparative
Studies in Society and History 36 (3): 575–610.
Rodgers, Dennis, Robert Muggah, and Chris Stevenson. 2009. “Gangs of Central America: Causes, Costs,
and Interventions.” Occasional Paper 23, Small Arms Survey, Graduate Institute of International and
Development Studies, Geneva.
Rodrik, Dani. 2000. “Institutions for High-Quality Growth: What They Are And How to Acquire Them.”
NBER Working Paper 7540, National Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, MA.
———. 2008. One Economics, Many Recipes: Globalization, Institutions, and Economic Growth. Princeton,
NJ: Princeton University Press.
Rodrik, Dani, Arvind Subramanian, and Francesco Trebbi. 2004. “Institutions Rule: The Primacy of Institutions over Geography and Integration in Economic Development.” Journal of Economic Growth
9 (2): 131–65.
Rohland, Klaus, and Sarah Cliffe. 2002. “The East Timor Reconstruction Programme: Successes, Problems and Tradeoffs.” CPR Working Paper 26361, World Bank, Washington, DC.
Roque, Paula, Judy Smith-Höhn, Paul-Simon Handy, Le Dang Doanh, David Craig, and Omar McDoom.
2010. “Exit Pathways: South Africa, Mozambique, Vietnam, Cambodia, Rwanda.” Background paper
for the WDR 2011.
Ross, Michael. 2003. “The Natural Resource Curse: How Wealth Can Make You Poor.” In Natural
Resources and Violent Conflict, ed. Ian Bannon and Paul Collier. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Rosset, Peter, Raj Patel, and Michael Courville, eds. 2006. Promised Land: Competing Visions of Agrarian
Reform. Oakland, CA: Food First: Institute for Food and Development Policy.
Rozema, Ralph. 2008. “Urban DDR Processes: Paramilitaries and Criminal Networks in Medellín,
Colombia.” Journal of Latin American Studies 40 (3): 423–52.
Rubin, Barnett R. 2002. Blood on the Doorstep: The Politics of Preventive Action. Washington, DC: Century
Foundation: Council on Foreign Relations.
Sage, Caroline, and Deval Desai. 2010. “Public Security, Criminal Justice, and Reforming the Security
Sector.” Background paper for the WDR 2011.
Salazar, Hernando. 2007. “Colombians Against Kidnapping.” BBC News, July 15.
Salehyan, Idean. 2007. “Transnational Rebels: Neighboring States as Sanctuary for Rebel Groups.” World
Politics 59 (2): 217–42.
Salehyan, Idean., and Kristian S. Gleditsch. 2006. “Refugees and the Spread of Civil War.” International
Organization 60 (2): 335–66.
Sambanis, Nicholas. 2001. “Do Ethnic and Nonethnic Civil Wars Have the Same Causes? A Theoretical
and Empirical Inquiry (Part I).” Journal of Conflict Resolution 45 (3): 259–82.
———. 2004. “What Is Civil War? Conceptual and Empirical Complexities of an Operational Definition.” Journal of Conflict Resolution 48 (6): 814–58.
Samity, Sharmajibee M. 2003.“‘Shalishi’ in West Bengal A Community-Based Response to Domestic Violence.” Economic and Political Weekly 38 (17): 1665–73.
Sapelli, Claudio. 2000. “The Political Economy of the Chilean Transition to Democracy.” Cuadernos de
Economía 37 (112): 537–56.
Satyanath, Shanker, Edward Miguel, and Ernest Sergenti. 2004. “Economic Shocks and Civil Conflict: An
Instrumental Variables Approach.” Journal of Political Economy 112 (4): 725–53.
Sawyer, Amos. 2004. “Violent Conflicts and Governance Challenges in West Africa: The Case of the Mano
River Basin Area.” Journal of Modern African Studies 42 (3): 437–63.
Sayigh, Yezid. 2010. “The West Bank and Gaza Strip.” Background paper for the WDR 2011.
Scanteam. 2007. “Review of Post-crisis Multi-Donor Trust Funds: Final Report.” Scanteam, Oslo.
———. 2010. “Flexibility in the Face of Fragility: Programmatic Multi-Donor Trust Funds in Fragile and
Conflict-Affected Situations.” World Bank, Washington, DC.
Schelling, Thomas C. 1960. Strategy of Conflict. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
———. 1971. “Dynamic Models of Segregation.” Journal of Mathematical Sociology 1 (2): 143–86.
———. 1978. Micromotives and Macrobehavior. New York: W. W. Norton & Company.

References

Schelnberger, Anna K. 2005. “Decentralisation as a Means of Conflict Management: A Case Study of
Kibaale District, Uganda.” IEE Working Papers 181, Institute of Development Research and Development Policy, Ruhr University, Bochum, Germany.
Scheye, Eric. 2009. “State-Provided Service, Contracting Out, and Non-State Networks: Justice and Security as Public and Private Goods and Services.” The International Network of Conflict and Fragility, Development Assistant Committee, Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development,
Paris.
Scheye, Eric, and Diana Chigas. 2009. “Development of a Basket of Conflict, Security, and Justice Indicators.” Online Publication. http://www.scribd.com/doc/23391272/Conflict-Security-Justice-GlobalIndicators-Final-Report.
Schiavo-Campo, Salvatore. 2003. “Financing and Aid Management Arrangements in Post-conflict Situations.” CPR Working Papers 6, World Bank, Washington, DC.
Schimmelfennig, Frank, and Ulrich Sedelmeier. 2002. “Theorizing EU Enlargement: Research Focus,
Hypotheses, and the State of Research.” Journal of European Public Policy 9 (4): 500–28.
Schneider, Friedrich, Andreas Buehn, and Claudio E. Montenegro. 2010. “New Estimates for the Shadow
Economies all over the World.” International Economic Journal 24 (4): 443–61.
Schulze, Kirsten E. 2007. “Mission Not So Impossible: The Aceh Monitoring Mission and Lessons
Learned for the EU.” Internaitonal Policy Analysis, Friedrich Ebert Stiftung, Berlin.
Secretaría de Gobierno de Medellín. 2010. “Informe de Indicadores Objetivos sobre Seguridad Ciudadana.” Medellín Como Vamos, Medellín. http://www.medellincomovamos.org.
Seelke, Clare R., Liana Sun Wyler, and June S. Beittel. 2011. “Latin America and the Caribbean: Illicit Drug
Trafficking and U.S. Counterdrug Programs.” Congressional Research Service, Washington, DC.
Seely, Jennifer. 2001. “A Political Analysis of Decentralisation: Co-opting the Tuareg Threat in Mali.”
Journal of Modern African Studies 39 (3): 499–524.
Selvarajan, S. 2008. “Ex-post Economic Analysis of the National Solidarity Programme (NSP).” World
Bank, Washington, DC.
Shanty, Frank, and Patit P. Mishra, eds. 2008. Organized Crime: From Trafficking to Terrorism. Santa
Barbara, CA: ABC-CLIO.
Sharma, Gopal. 2008. “Nepalis Face 16 Hour Daily Power Cuts by February.” Reuters, August 24.
Sharp, Kay, Taylor Brown, and Amdissa Teshome. 2006. “Targeting Ethiopia’s Productive Safety Net Programme (PSNP).” Overseas Development Institute, London.
Shemyakina, Olga. 2006. “The Effect of Armed Conflict on Accumulation of Schooling: Results from
Tajikistan.” HiCN Working Papers 12, Institute of Development Studies, University of Sussex, Brighton, U.K.
Sherman, Jake. 2010. “Criminal Justice.” Background paper for the WDR 2011.
Shiawl-Kidanekal, Teferra. 2004. “Conflict Prevention and Management in Africa.” In Conflict Prevention: From Rhetoric to Reality, ed. Albrecht Schnabel and David Carment. Lanham, MD: Lexington
Books.
Shin, Gi-Wook. 2006. “Agrarian Roots of Korean Capitalism.” In Transformations in Twentieth Century
Korea, ed. Chang Yun-Shik and Steven H. Lee. New York: Routledge.
SIDA (Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency). 2005. “Strategy for Swedish Support
to the African Great Lakes Region Including Country Strategies for Rwanda, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Burundi: November 2004–December 2008.” SIDA, Stockholm.
Siddiqui, Niloufer. 2011. “Broken Justice.” Foreign Policy, February 1.
Silberschmidt, Margrethe. 1999. Women Forget that Men are the Masters: Gender Antagonism and SocioEconomic Change in Kisii District, Kenya. Uppsala, Norway: Nordiska Afrikainstitutet.
———. 2001. “Disempowerment of Men in Rural and Urban East Africa: Implications for Male Identity
and Sexual Behavior.” World Development 29 (4): 657–71.
Sirivi, Josie T., and Marilyn T. Havini. 2004. As Mothers of the Land: The Birth of The Bougainville Women
For Peace And Freedom. Canberra: Pandanus Books, Research School of Pacific and Asian Studies.
Sirleaf, Ellen Johnson. 2007a. “Challenges for New Leadership Teams in Fragile States.” Capacity Development Briefs 21, World Bank Institute, World Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2007b. “Key Note Address by Her Excellency Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, President of the Republic of
Liberia.” UN Institute for Training and Research, Torino Retreat, Turin, Italy, August 31.
Sisk, Timothy D. 2010. “Cooperating for Peace: The Challenge and Promise of Partnerships in Peace
Operations.” Geneva Centre for Security Policy, Geneva.

325

326

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

Skaperdas, Stergios. 1996. “Contest Success Functions.” Economic Theory 7 (2): 283–90.
Skaperdas, Stergios, Rodrigo Soares, Alys Willman, and Stephen C. Miller. 2009. “The Costs of Violence.”
World Bank, Washington, DC.
Small Arms Survey Project. 2001. Small Arms Survey 2001: Profiling the Problem. Oxford, U.K.: Oxford
University Press.
———. 2005. Small Arms Survey 2005: Weapons at War. Oxford, U.K.: Oxford University Press.
———. 2006. Small Arms Survey 2006: Unfinished Business. Oxford, U.K.: Oxford University Press.
———. 2009. Small Arms Survey 2009: Shadows of War. Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge University Press.
———. 2011. “Small Arms Survey: Weapons and Markets.” Small Arms Survey, Geneva. http://www
.smallarmssurvey.org/weapons-and-markets.html.
Smith, Anthony L. 2004. “Trouble in Thailand’s Muslim South: Separatism, not Global Terrorism.” AsiaPacific Security Studies 3 (10): 1–4.
Snyder, Jack. 2000. From Voting to Violence: Democratization and Nationalist Conflict. New York: W.W.
Norton & Company.
Snyder, Jack, and Robert Jervis. 1999. “Civil War and the Security Dilemma.” In Civil Wars, Insecurity, and
Intervention, ed. Barbara F. Walter and Jack Snyder. New York: Columbia University Press.
Solow, Robert M. 1990.The Labor Market as a Social Institution. Malden, MA: Blackwell Publishing.
South Africa Ministry of Defence. 1996. “White Paper on National Defence for the Republic of South Africa.” Government of South Africa, Pretoria. http://www.info.gov.za/whitepapers/1996/defencwp.htm.
Spear, Joanna, and Bernard Harborne. 2010. “Improving Security in Violent Conflict Settings.” Background paper for the WDR 2011.
Spears, Ian S. 2002. “Africa: The Limits of Power-Sharing.” Journal of Democracy 13 (3): 123–36.
Special Court for Sierra Leone Office of the Prosecutor. 2007. “The Prosecutor vs. Charles Ghankay
Taylor–Indictment.” Special Court for Sierra Leone, Freetown, Sierra Leone. http://www.sc-sl.org/
CASES/ProsecutorvsCharlesTaylor/tabid/107/Default.aspx.
Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction. 2009. “Hard Lessons: The Iraq Reconstruction Experience.” U.S. Independent Agencies and Commissions, Washington, DC.
Spence, A. Michael. 1977. “Entry, Investment, and Oligopolistic Pricing.” Bell Journal of Economics 8 (2):
534–44.
Stanley, William, and David Holiday. 2002. “Broad Participation, Diffuse Responsibility: Peace Implementation in Guatemala.” In Ending Civil Wars: The Implementation of Peace Agreements, ed. Stephen
Stedman, Elizabeth Cousens, and Donald Rothchild. Boulder, CO: Lynne Reinner.
Statistical Office of Kosovo. 2010. “Export-Import.” Kosovo Ministry of Public Administration, Pristina,
Kosovo. http://esk.rks-gov.net/eng/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=46&Itemid=36.
Stedman, Stephen. 1996. “Negotiation and Mediation in Internal Conflict.” In The International Dimensions of Internal Conflict, ed. Michael E. Brown. Cambridge, MA: Center for Science and International
Affairs, John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University.
Stern, Jessica. 2003. Terror in the Name of God: Why Religious Militants Kill. New York: Harper Collins.
Stewart, Frances. 2005. “Horizontal Inequalities: A Neglected Dimension of Development.” In Wider Perspectives on Global Development, ed. UNU-WIDER (United Nations University–World Institute for
Development Economics Research). Helsinki: UNU-WIDER.
———. 2010. “Horizontal Inequalities as a Cause of Conflict: A Review of CRISE Findings.” Background
paper for the WDR 2011.
Stewart, Frances, Cindy Huang, and Michael Wang. 2001. “Internal Wars: An Empirical Overview of
Economic and Social Consequences.” In War and Underdevelopment, ed. Frances Stewart and Valpy
Fitzgerald. Oxford, U.K.: Oxford University Press.
Stewart, Patrick, and Kaysie Brown. 2007. Greater than the Sum of its Parts?: Assessing ‘Whole of Government’ Approaches to Fragile States. New York: International Peace Academy.
Stoddard, Abby, Adele Harmer, and Katherine Haver. 2006. “Providing Aid in Insecure Environments:
Trends in Policy and Operations.” HPG Briefing Paper 23, Overseas Development Institute, London.
Stohl, Rachel, and Suzette Grillot. 2009. The International Arms Trade. Cambridge, U.K.: Polity Press.
Stramm, Andreas, Christoph Jost, Konstanze Kreiss, Katharina Meier, Mike Pfister, Philipp Schukat, and
Henning A. Speck. 2006. “Strengthening Value Chains in Sri Lanka’s Agribusiness: A Way to Reconcile
Competitiveness with Socially Inclusive Growth?” Deutsches Institut für Entwicklungspolitik, Bonn,
Germany.

References

Strassler, Robert, ed. 1996. The Landmark Thucydides: A Comprehensive Guide to the Peloponnesian War.
New York: Free Press.
STRATFOR. 2009. “Central America: An Emerging Role in the Drug Trade.” STRATFOR, Austin, TX.
Straus, Scott. 2010. “Mali and Its Sahelian Neighbors.” Background paper for the WDR 2011.
Strom, Kevin J., and John M. MacDonald. 2007. “The Influence of Social and Economic Disadvantage
on Racial Patterns in Youth Homicide Over Time.” Homicide Studies 11 (1): 50–69.
SUCOFINDO (Superintending Company of Indonesia). 2002. “Sucofindo International Certification
Services.” SUCOFINDO, Jakarta. http://222.124.12.244/sics.htm.
Suhrke, Astri, Torunn Wimpelmann, and Marcia Dawes. 2007. “Peace Processes and State Building: Economic and Institutional Provisions of Peace Agreements.” Chr. Michelsen Institute, Bergen, Norway.
Sundberg, Ralph. 2008. “Collective Violence 2002–2007: Global and Regional Trends.” In States in Armed
Conflict 2007, ed. Lotta Harbom and Ralph Sundberg. Uppsala, Sweden: Universitetstryckeriet.
Sutton, Adam, Adrian Cherney, and Rob White. 2008. Crime Prevention: Principles, Perspectives and
Practices. New York: Cambridge University Press.
Svensson, Jakob. 2000. “The Cost of Doing Business: Firms’ Experience with Corruption in Uganda.”
Africa Region Working Paper 6, World Bank, Washington, DC.
Tajima, Yuhki. 2009. “Background Paper on Economic Reintegration.” Congeso Internacional de Desarme,
Demovilización y Reintegración, Cartagena; Republic of Colombia, Cartagena, Colombia.
Thapa, Deepak. 2010. “Nepal.” Background paper for the WDR 2011.
The Carter Center. 2007. “Final Report to the Guyana Elections Commission on the 2006 General and
Regional Elections.” The Carter Center, Atlanta, GA.
The Economist. 2010. “Crime and Punishment in Guatemala: Kamikaze Mission: The UN’s Prosecutor
Resigns, Taking an Enemy with Him.” The Economist, June 17.
The PRS Group. 2010. “International Country Risk Guide.” The PRS Group, East Syracuse, NY. http://
www.prsgroup.com.
The SEEP Network. 2009. “Minimum Standards for Economic Recovery after Crisis.” The SEEP Network, Washington, DC.
Thornton, Gary, Ray Yannone, Larry Martinez, and Vanessa Trevino. 2011. “Los Angeles Almanac.” Los
Angeles Almanac, Los Angeles, CA. http://www.laalmanac.com.
Timor-Leste Independent Comprehensive Need Assessment Team. 2009. “The Justice System of TimorLeste: An Independent Comprehensive Need Assessment.” UN Integrated Mission in East Timor,
Dili.
Timor-Leste Ministry of Finance. 2010. “Timor-Leste Development Partners Meeting: Background
Paper.” Government of Timor-Leste, Dili.
Toft, Monica D. 2003.The Geography of Ethnic Violence: Identity, Interests, and the Indivisibility of Territory. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
Torres, Anastasia B. 2002. “Gender and Forced Migration.” Forced Migration Online, Oxford, U.K.
Transparency International. 2011. “Building Integrity and Countering Corruption in Defence and Security: 20 Practical Reforms.” Defence and Security Programme, Transparency International, London.
Tsunekawa, Keiichi, and Kohei Yoshida. 2010. “State Building, Economic Development, and Democracy:
The Japanese Experience.” Background note for the WDR 2011.
Tukahebwa, Geoffrey B. 2000. “The Role of District Councils in Decentralisation.” In Decentralisation
and Civil Society in Uganda: The Quest for Good Governance, ed. Apolo Nsibambe. Kampala: Fountain Publishers.
Tulloch, Jim, Fadia Saadah, Rui M. de Araujo, Rui P. de Jesus, Sergio Lobo, Isabel Hemming, Jane Nassim, and Ian Morris. 2003. Initial Steps in Rebuilding the Health Sector in East Timor. Washington,
DC: National Academies Press.
U.S. Committee for Refugees and Immigrants. 2009. “World Refugee Survey 2009.” U.S. Committee for
Refugees and Immigrants, Arlington, VA.
U.S. Department of State. 2008. “Interagency Conflict Assessment Framework.” Office of the Coordinator for Reconstruction and Stabilization, U.S. Department of State, Washington, DC.
———. 2010. “Background Note: Democratic Republic of the Congo.” U.S. Department of State, Washington, DC.
U.S. Energy Information Administration. 2011. “Petroleum & Other Liquids.” Independent Statistics
and Analysis, U.S. Energy Information Administration, Washington, DC.

327

328

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

U.S. Government Accountability Office. 2007. “Stabilizing and Rebuilding Iraq: U.S. Ministry Capacity
Development Efforts Need an Overall Integrated Strategy to Guide Efforts and Manage Risk.” Report
to Congressional Committees, U.S. Government Accountability Office, Washington, DC.
———. 2010a. “Maritime Security: Actions Needed to Assess and Update Plan and Enhance Collaboration among Partners Involved in Countering Piracy off the Horn of Africa.” U.S. Government Accountability Office, Washington, DC.
———. 2010b. “Mérida Initiative: The United States Has Provided Counternarcotics and Anticrime
Support but Needs Better Performance Measures.” U.S. Government Accountability Office, Washington, DC.
U.S. Office of National Drug Control Policy. 1999. “FY1999 Drug Budget Program Highlights.” U.S. Office of National Drug Control Policy, Rockville, MD. http://www.ncjrs.gov/ondcppubs/publications/
policy/budget99/spending.html.
UN (United Nations). 1998. “Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court.” UN, Rome.
———. 2000. “UN Security Council Resolution 1325.” UN, New York.
———. 2002. “Women, Peace and Security.” UN, New York.
———. 2004a. “A More Secure World: Our Shared Responsibility: Report of the Secretary General’s
High-Level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change.” UN, New York.
———. 2004b. “The Rule of Law and Transitional Justice in Conflict and Post-conflict Societies: Report
of the Secretary General.” UN, New York.
———. 2006a. “Agreement between the United Nations and the State of Guatemala on the Establishment of an International Commission Against Impunity in Guatemala.” UN, New York.
———. 2006b. “Integrated Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration Standards.” UN, New
York.
———. 2007. “MDG Monitor: Tracking the Millennium Development Goals.” UN, New York. http://
www.mdgmonitor.org/.
———. 2011. “UN Security Council Resolution 1960.” UN, New York.
———. Forthcoming. “United Nations Review of International Civilian Capacities.” UN, New York.
UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan and UNOHCHR (UN Office of the High Commissioner on Human Rights). 2010. “Harmful Traditional Practices and Implementation of the Law on Elimination
of Violence against Women in Afghanistan.” UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan; UNOHCHR,
Kabul.
UN General Assembly. 2005a. “Basic Principles and Guidelines on the Right to a Remedy and Reparation
for Victims of Gross Violations of International Human Rights Law and Serious Violations of the
International Humanitarian Law.” UN, New York.
———. 2005b. “Resolution Adopted by the General Assembly: 2005 World Summit Outcome.” UN, New
York.
———. 2006. “Resolution Adopted by the General Assembly: The United Nations Global CounterTerrorism Strategy.” UN, New York.
———. 2009a. “Activities of the International Commission Against Impunity in Guatemala: Report of
the Secretary General.” UN, New York.
———. 2009b. “Human Security: Report of the Secretary General.” UN, New York.
———. 2010. “Resolution Adopted by the General Assembly: Follow-up to Paragraph 143 on Human
Security of the 2005 World Summit Outcome.” UN, New York.
UN Inter-Agency Information and Analysis Unit. 2010. “Electricity in Iraq Factsheet.” UN Inter-Agency
Information and Analysis Unit, New York.
UN Inter-Agency Framework for Coordination on Preventive Action. 2010. “The United Nations Interagency Framework Team for Preventive Action.” UN Interagency Framework Team for Preventive
Action, New York.
UN Security Council. 2006. “Report of the Secretary-General on Timor-Leste pursuant to Security
Council resolution 1690.” UN, New York.
———. 2009. “Ninth Semi-annual Report of the Secretary-General on the Implementation of Security
Council Resolution 1559 (2004).” UN, New York.
———. 2010a. “Haiti Can Return to ‘Path of Stability’ in Two Years, Given Necessary Support in Weathering Risks of Next 18 Months, Security Council Told.” UN, New York.
———. 2010b. “Statement by the President of the Security Council.” UN, New York.

References

UN Verification Mission in Guatemala. 2003. “Fourteenth Report on Human Rights of the United Nations Verification Mission in Guatemala.” UN Verification Mission in Guatemala, Guatemala City.
———. 2004. “Informe de Verificación: El Estado de Cumplimiento de las Recomendaciones de la
Comisión para el Esclarecimiento Histórico.” UN Verification Mission in Guatemala, Guatemala
City.
UNDP (UN Development Programme). 2005a. “Central Asia Human Development Report: Bringing
Down Barriers: Regional Cooperation for Human Development and Human Security.” Regional
Bureau for Europe and the Commonwealth of Independent States, UNDP, Bratislava.
———. 2005b. “International Cooperation at a Crossroads: Aid, Trade and Security in an Unequal
World.” Human Development Report Office, UNDP, New York.
———. 2005c. “¿Cuánto Cuesta la Violencia a El Salvador?” UNDP, San Salvador.
———. 2006. “El Costo Económico de la Violencia en Guatemala.” UNDP, Guatemala City.
———. 2008a. “Informe Estadístico de la Violencia en Guatemala: Programa de Seguridad Ciudadana
y Prevención de la Violencia del PNUD en Guatemala.” UNDP, Guatemala City.
———. 2008b. “Post-conflict ‘Economic Recovery: Enabling Local Ingenuity.” Bureau for Crisis Prevention and Recovery, UNDP, New York.
———. 2010a. “Building ‘Collaborative Capacity’: UN Development Assistance for Conflict Prevention
through Internally Negotiated Solutions to Crises.” Background note for the WDR 2011.
———. 2010b. “The Real Wealth of Nations: Pathways to Human Development.” Human Development
Report Offices, UNDP, New York.
UNDPA (UN Department of Political Affairs). 2010a. “Input to World Development Report on the
Theme of Fragility and Conflict: Conflict Prevention Efforts in West Africa.” Background note for
the WDR 2011.
———. 2010b. “Lessons Learned from Guatemala and Guyana.” Background note for the WDR 2011.
UNDPKO (UN Department of Peacekeeping Operations). 2010a. “Haiti Police Reform.” Background
note for the WDR 2011.
———. 2010b. “List of Operations.” UNDPKO, New York.
———. 2010c. “United Nations Peacekeeping Fact Sheet.” UNDPKO, New York. http://www.un.org/en/
peacekeeping/resources/statistics/factsheet.shtml.
UNFPA (UN Population Fund). 2002. “The Impact of Conflict on Women and Girls: A UNFPA Strategy
for Gender Mainstreaming in Areas of Conflict and Reconstruction.” Paper presented at the Impact
of Conflict on Women and Girls: A Consultative Meeting on Mainstreaming Gender in Areas of
Conflict and Reconstruction, Bratislava, November 13–15.
UNHCR (UN High Commissioner for Refugees). 2009. “2008 Global Trends: Refugees, Asylum-Seekers,
Returnees, Internally Displaced and Stateless Persons.” UNHCR, Geneva.
———. 2010. “Global Appeal 2010–2011: Real People, Real Needs.” UNHCR, Geneva.
UNICEF (UN Children’s Fund). 2004. “The Situation of Women and Girls: Facts and Figures.” UNICEF,
New York. http://www.unicef.org/gender/index_factsandfigures.html.
———. 2007. “Birth Registration and Armed Conflict.” Innocenti Research Centre, UNICEF, Florence,
Italy.
UNIFEM (UN Development Fund for Women), UN Action Against Sexual Violence in Conflict, and
UNDPKO (UN Department of Peacekeeping Operations). 2010. “Addressing Conflict-Related
Sexual Violence: An Analytical Inventory of Peacekeeping Practice.” UNIFEM; UN Action Against
Sexual Violence in Conflict; UNDPKO, New York.
UNODC (UN Office on Drugs and Crime). 2007. “Crime and Development in Central America: Caught
in the Crossfire.” UNODC, Vienna.
———. 2008. “Crime and its Impact on the Balkans and Affected Countries.” UNODC, Vienna.
———. 2009a. “Transnational Trafficking and the Rule of Law in West Africa: A Threat Assessment.”
UNODC, Vienna.
———. 2009b. “World Drug Report 2009.” UNODC, Vienna.
———. 2010a. “The Globalization of Crime: The Threat of Transnational Organized Crime.” UNODC,
Vienna.
———. 2010b. “World Drug Report 2010.” UNODC, Vienna.
UNODC (UN Office on Drugs and Crime) and World Bank. 2007. “Crime, Violence, and Development: Trends, Costs, and Policy Options in the Caribbean.” UNODC, Geneva; Latin America and the
Caribbean Region, World Bank, Washington, DC.

329

330

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

UNOHCHR (UN Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights). 2006. “Rule of Law Tools for
Post-conflict States: Truth Commissions.” UNOHCHR, Geneva.
———. 2010. “Voice of Victims: Transitional Justice in Nepal.” UNOHCHR, Geneva.
UNOPS (UN Office for Project Services). 2009. “Rural Roads Connect Villages to the World.” UNOPS,
New York.
UNPBSO (UN Peacebuilding Support Office). 2010. “Background Note: The Role of the PBC in Marshalling Resources for Countries on Its Agenda.” UNPBSO, New York.
UNPOL (UN Police Division). 2011. “Office of Rule of Law and Security Institutions.” UNPOL, New
York. http://www.un.org/en/peacekeeping/sites/police/orolsi.shtml.
UNSTAT (UN Statistics Division). 2010. “United Nations Statistics Division.” UNSTAT, New York. http://
unstats.un.org/unsd/default.htm.
Uppsala University. 2009. “Uppsala Conflict Data Program Database.” Uppsala University, Uppsala,
Sweden. http://www.ucdp.uu.se/gpdatabase.
Urdal, Henrik. 2004. “The Devil in the Demographics: The Effect of Youth Bulges on Domestic Armed
Conflict, 1950–2000.” Social Development Papers 14, World Bank, Washington, DC.
USAID (U.S. Agency for International Development). 2009a. “ADS Chapter 320: Branding and Marking.”
USAID, Washington, DC.
———. 2009b. “Bringing Justice to Rural Colombia.” USAID, Washington, DC.
———. 2010. “USAID Branding.” USAID, Washington, DC. http://www.usaid.gov/branding/.
USAID Burundi. 2005. “Burundi Strategy Statement 2006–2008.” USAID, Bujumbura.
USAID Famine Early Warning Systems Network. 2010. “USAID Famine Early Warning Systems Network.” USAID, Washington, DC. http://www.fews.net.
USAID Guatemala. 2008. “Fact Sheet: 24-Hour Courts Rule of Law Program.” USAID, Pinula, Guatemala.
USAID Rwanda. 2006. “Restoring Hope through Economic Opportunity: Final Report of the Agribusiness Development Assistance to Rwanda (ADAR) Project.” USAID, Kisali.
van de Walle, Nicolas, and Michael Bratton, eds. 1997. Democratic Experiment in Africa: Regime Transformations in Comparative Perspectives. Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge University Press.
Van der Elst, Kristel, and Nicholas Davis, eds. 2011. Global Risks 2011: An Initiative of the Risk Response
Network. Geneva: World Economic Forum, 6th ed.
Van der Graaf, General Henny. 2001. “Flames of Peace: Disarmament and post-Conflict Peacebuilding in
Mali.” In Managing the Remnants of War: Micro-disarmament as an Element of Peacebuilding, ed. Sami
Faltas and Joseph Di Chiaro III. Bonn, Germany: Bonn International Center for Conversion.
Van Genugten, Willem J. M., and Gerard A. de Groot, eds. 1999. United Nations Sanctions: Effectiveness
and Effects, Especially in the Field of Human Rights. Antwerp, Belgium: Intersentia.
Verdú, Rodrigo G., Wendy Cunningham, Linda McGinnis, Cornelia Tesliuc, and Dorte Verner. 2008.
Youth at Risk in Latin America and the Caribbean. Understanding the Causes, Realizing the Potential.
Washington, DC: World Bank.
Verhey, Beth. 2001. “Child Soldiers: Preventing, Demobilizing and Reintegrating.”Africa Region Working
Paper 23, World Bank, Washington, DC.
Verpoorten, Marijke. 2003. “The Determinants of Income Mobility in Rwanda, 1990–2002.” Katholieke
Universiteit, Leuven, Belgium. Processed.
Verwimp, Philip, and Jan Van Bavel. 2005. “Child Survival and Fertility of Refugees in Rwanda after
the Genocide: Special Issue of the Demography of Violent Conflict.” European Journal of Population
21 (2–3): 271–90.
Vetschera, Heinz, and Matthieu Damian. 2006. “Security Sector Reform in Bosnia and Herzegovina: The
Role of the International Community.” International Peacekeeping 13 (1): 28–42.
Villaveces, Andrés, Peter Cummings, Victoria E. Espitia, Thomas D. Koepsell, Barbara McKnight, and
Arthur L. Kellermann. 2000. “Effect of a Ban on Carrying Firearms on Homicide Rates in Two
Colombian Cities.” Journal of the American Medical Association 283 (9): 1205–09.
Von Kaltenborn-Stachau, Henriette. 2008. “The Missing Link: Fostering Positive Citizen-State Relations
in Post-conflict Environments.” Brief for Policy Makers, Communications for Governance and Accountability Program, World Bank, Washington, DC.
Vulliamy, Ed. 2008. “How a Tiny West African Country Became the World’s First Narco State.” The
Observer, March 9.
Wainwright, Elsina. 2005. “How is RAMSI Faring? Progress, Challenges, and Lessons Learned.” Australian
Strategic Policy Institute, Canberra.

References

Walby, Sylvia. 2004. “The Cost of Domestic Violence.” Women and Equality Unit, Department of Trade
and Industry, London.
Waldman, Matt. 2008. “Falling Short: Aid Effectiveness in Afghanistan.” Agency Coordinating Body for
Afghan Relief, Kabul.
Wallensteen, Peter, Damien Fruchart, Paul Holtom, Siemon Wezeman, and Daniel Strandow. 2007.
“United Nations Arms Embargoes: Their Impact on Arms Flows and Target Behaviour.” Stockholm
International Peace Research Institute, Stockholm; Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
Walter, Barbara, and Andrew H. Kydd. 2002. “Sabotaging the Peace: Politics of Extremist Violence.” International Organization 56 (2): 263–96.
Walter, Barbara F. 1997.“The Critical Barrier to Civil War Settlement.” International Organization 51
(3): 335–64.
———. 1999. “Designing Transitions from Civil War.” In Civil Wars, Insecurity, and Intervention, ed.
Barbara F. Walter and Jack Snyder. New York: Columbia University Press.
———. 2004. “Does Conflict Beget Conflict? Explaining Recurring Civil War.” Journal of Peace Research
41 (3): 371–88.
———. 2010. “Conflict Relapse and the Sustainability of Post-conflict Peace.” Background paper for
the WDR 2011.
Ward, Jeanne, and Mendy Marsh. 2006. “Sexual Violence Against Women and Girls in War and Its Aftermath: Realities, Responses, and Required Resources.” Paper presented at the Symposium on Sexual
Violence in Conflict and Beyond, Brussels, June 21–23.
Weingast, Barry. 1997. “The Political Foundations of Democracy and the Rule of Law.” American Political Science Review 91 (2): 245–63.
Wennmann, Achim. 2009. “Getting Armed Groups to the Table: Peace Processes, the Political Economy
of Conflict and the Mediated State.” Third World Quarterly 30 (6): 1123–38.
Whitfield, Teresa. 2007. Friends Indeed? the United Nations, Groups of Friends, and the Resolution of Conflict. Washington, DC: United States Institute of Peace.
Wilkinson, Steven I. 2000. “India, Consociational Theory and Ethnic Violence.” Asian Survey 40 (5):
767–91.
Williams, Rocky. 2005. “Demobilisation and Reintegration: The South African Experience.” Journal of
Security Sector Management, Rocky Williams Tribute Issue. http://www.ssronline.org/jofssm/issues/
jofssm_sp_04_rocky_ddr.pdf?CFID=2695055&CFTOKEN=53045118.
Williamson, Oliver E. 1985. The Economic Institutions of Capitalism: Firms, Markets, Relational Contracting. New York: Free Press.
Willman, Alys. 2010. “Preventing and Reducing Armed Violence in Urban Areas: OECD Programming
Note.” Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, Paris.
Willman, Alys, and Megumi Makisaka. 2010. “Interpersonal Violence Prevention: A Review of the Evidence and Emerging Lessons.” Background paper for the WDR 2011.
Wilson, Scott. 2002. “Re-opening Mozambique: Lessons Learned from the Feeder Road Programme.”
International Labour Organization, Geneva; UN Development Programme, Maputo; Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency, Stockholm; and Administraçao Nacional de Estradas,
Maputo.
Wisler, Dominique. 2005. “The Police Reform in Bosnia and Herzegovina.” In After Intervention: Public
Security Management in Post-Conflict Societies: From Intervention to Sustainable Local Ownership,
ed. Anja Ebnother and Philipp Fluri. Vienna: Bureau for Security Policy, Austrian Ministry of
Defence; Geneva: Geneva Centre for the Democratic Control of Armed Forces; and Partnership for
Peace Consortium of Defense Academies and Security Studies, Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Germany.
Wolpe, Howard, and Steve McDonald. 2006. “Burundi’s Transition: Training Leaders for Peace.” Journal
of Democracy 17 (1): 126–32.
Women’s Refugee Commission. 2008. Disabilities Among Refugees and Conflict-Affected Populations.
New York: Women’s Refugee Commission.
Women’s Refugee Commission. 2009. Refugee Girls: The Invisible Faces of War. New York: Women’s Refugee Commission.
Wood, Elisabeth J. 2003. Insurgent Collective Action and Civil War in El Salvador. Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge University Press.
———. 2008. “The Social Processes of Civil War: The Wartime Transformation of Social Networks.”
American Review of Political Science 11: 539–61.

331

332

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

World Bank. 1999a. “Aid Coordination and Post-conflict Reconstruction: The West Bank and Gaza Experience.” Precís 185, Operations Evaluation Department, World Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 1999b. Violence in Colombia: Building Sustainable Peace and Social Capital. Washington, DC:
World Bank.
———. 2000. “The Economics of War-to-Peace Transition.” Post-conflict Unit Discussion Note 4, World
Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2002a. “East Timor SP: Third Community Empowerment Project.” World Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2002b. “Post-conflict Learning Event.” World Bank, Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania.
———. 2003. “Post-conflict Workshop.” World Bank, Maputo.
———. 2004. “West Bank and Gaza: Country Financial Accountability Assessment.” West Bank and
Gaza Operational Core Services Unit, Middle East and North Africa Region, World Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2005a. “Memorandum of the President of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development to the Executive Directors on a Proposal for the World Bank to Administer Two Multi-Donor
Trust Funds for Sudan.” World Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2005b. “Mozambique Country Economic Memorandum: Sustaining Growth and Reducing Poverty.” Poverty Reduction and Economic Management, Africa Region, World Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2006a. “Anti-Corruption in Transition 3: Who is Succeeding and Why?” World Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2006b. “At Home and Away: Expanding Job Opportunities for Pacific Islanders Through Labor
Mobility.” World Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2006c. “Engaging with Fragile States: An IEG Review of World Bank Support to Low-Income
Countries Under Stress.” World Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2006d. “Labor Migration in the Greater Mekong Sub-Region Synthesis Report: Phase I.” World
Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2006e. “Project Appraisal Document for a Proposed Loan in the Amount of US$29.3 Million to
Jamaica for an Inner City Basic Services for the Poor Project.” World Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2006f. World Development Report 2007: Development and the Next Generation. Washington, DC:
World Bank.
———. 2007a. “Aid Architecture: An Overview of the Main Trends in Official Development Assistance
Flows.” World Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2007b. “Making the Most of Scarcity: Accountability for Better Water Management in the
Middle East and North Africa.” MENA Development Reports, Office of the Chief Economist,
Middle East and North Africa Region. World Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2007c. “The Development Potential of Regional Programs: An Evaluation of World Bank Support of Multicountry Operations.” World Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2007d. “Toward a New Framework for Rapid Bank Response to Crises and Emergencies.” World
Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2008a. “Aceh Poverty Assessment 2008: The Impact of the Conflict, the Tsunami, and Reconstruction on Poverty in Aceh.” World Bank, Jakarta.
———. 2008b. “Activities within World Bank Core Competencies in the Context of Crises and Emergencies: A Good Practice and Guidance Note.” World Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2008c. “Burundi: Investing in Leadership Development through the Rapid Results Approach.”
World Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2008d. “Cash Transfer Programs in Emergency Situations: A Good Practice and Guidance Note.”
World Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2008e. “Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Burundi for the Period of FY09–FY12 .”
World Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2008f. “Republic of Lebanon: Electricity Sector Public Expenditure Review.” World Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2008g. “State (Trans-) Formation in Timor-Leste: Building Institutions that Contribute to
Peace.” OPCFC Occasional Note 3, Fragile and Conflict-Affected Countries Unit, World Bank, Washington, DC.

References

———. 2008h. World Development Report 2009: Reshaping Economic Geography. Washington, DC:
World Bank.
———. 2009a. “Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund: Newsletter Issue 01.” World Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2009b. “Blue Water: Towards a World Bank Group Pacific Strategy.” World Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2009c. “Implementation, Completion and Results Report on an IDA Grant in the Amount of
SDR 24 Million (US$3 Million Equivalent) and a MDRP Grant in the Amount of US$48.4 Million
and a European Commission Grant in the Amount of EUR 13.4 Million (US$16.6 Million Equivalent) to the Republic of Angola for an Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project.” Sustainable Development Department, Fragile States, Conflict and Social Development Unit, Africa
Region, World Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2009d. “Lebanon: Social Impact Analysis for the Electricity and Water Sectors.” World Bank,
Washington, DC.
———. 2009e. “Nepal: Bringing the Poorest into Schools.” World Bank, Washington, DC. http://web.
worldbank.org/WBSITE/EXTERNAL/COUNTRIES/SOUTHASIAEXT/0,,contentMDK:22324235
~menuPK:158937~pagePK:2865106~piPK:2865128~theSitePK:223547,00.html
———. 2009f. “Rapport sur l’Évaluation de la Gestion Financière des Forces de Défense et de Sécurité
en République Centrafricaine.” World Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2010a. “Background Brief on Aceh.” Background note for the WDR 2011.
———. 2010b. “Business Warehouse Data.” World Bank, Washington, DC. http://go.worldbank.org/
Q8GHD25UA0.
———. 2010c. “Crime and Violence in Central America.” World Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2010d. “Enterprise Surveys.” World Bank, Washington, DC. http://www.enterprisesurveys.org.
———. 2010e. Global Monitoring Report 2010: The MDGs after the Crisis. Washington, DC: World Bank.
———. 2010f. “Implementation and Completion and Results Report (IDA Grant Nos. H246, H325,
H451) to the Republic of Tajikistan.” World Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2010g. “Index of Legislative Instruments Applicable from the Beginning of Afghanistan Interim
Administration 2001 until 2009.” Background note for the WDR 2011.
———. 2010h. “Integrity Vice Presidency Annual Report: Fiscal 2010.” World Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2010i. “LCSPS Comments to the 2011 WDR on Justice Sector Reform in Latin America.” Background note for the WDR 2011.
———. 2010j. “Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Southern Sudan: Taking Stock and a Way Forward.” World
Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2010k. “Project Paper on a Proposed Additional Grant in the Amount of SDR 13.6 MIllion
(US$29 Million Equivalent) from the Pilot Crisis Response Window Resources (As a Part of a Total
of US$47 Million Equivalent, including US$27 from Liberia Reconstruction Trust Fund) to the Republic of Liberia for the Urban and Rural Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project.” World Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2010l. “The Global Land Rush: Can it Yield Sustainable and Equitable Benefits?” World Bank,
Washington, DC.
———. 2010m. “Violence in the City: Understanding and Supporting Community Responses to Urban
Violence.” World Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2010n. “World Development Indicators 2010.” World Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2011a. “In DR Congo, a Bridge Proves Key to Lower Food Prices.” World Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2011b. “World Investment and Political Risk 2010.” World Bank Group Multilateral Investment
Guarantee Agency, Washington, DC.
World Bank and ADB (Asian Development Bank). 2010. “Post Crisis Needs Assessment.” World Bank,
Washington, DC; ADB, Islamabad.
World Bank and AfDB (African Development Bank). 2010. “Providing Budget Aid in Situations of Fragility: A World Bank–African Development Bank Common Approach paper.” World Bank, AfDB,
Washington, DC.
World Bank and UN (United Nations). 2007. “In Support of Peacebuilding: Strengthening the Post
Conflict Needs Assessment.” World Bank, Washington, DC; UN, New York.

333

334

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

———. 2008. “Georgia: Joint Needs Assessment.” World Bank, Washington, DC; UN, New York.
World Bank, USAID (U.S. Agency for International Development), IFC (International Finance Cooperation), and MIGA (World Bank Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency). 2009. “A Rough
Guide to Investment Climate Reform in Conflict-Affected Countries.” World Bank, USAID, IFC, and
MIGA, Washington, DC.
WHO (World Health Organization). 2010. “Violence and Injury Prevention and Disability.” World
Health Organization, Geneva. http://www.who.int/violence_injury_prevention/en/.
Worsnip, Patrick. 2009. “UN Council Extends Lebanon Force with Same Mandate.”Reuters, August 27.
Wright-Neville, David. 2004. “Dangerous Dynamics: Activists, Militants and Terrorists in Southeast
Asia.”Pacific Review 17 (1): 27–46.
Wulf, Herbert, and Tobias Debiel. 2009. “Conflict Early Warning and Response Mechanisms: Tools For
Enhancing the Effectiveness of Regional Organisations? A Comparative Study of the AU, ECOWAS,
IGAD, ASEAN/ARF and PIF.” Crisis States Research Centre Working Paper 49, Development Studies
Institute, London School of Economics and Political Science, London.
Zakaria, Fareed. 2003. The Future of Freedom: Illiberal Democracy at Home and Abroad. New York:
W.W. Norton & Company.
Zamora, Ruben, and David Holiday. 2007. “The Struggle for Lasting Reform: Vetting Processes in El
Salvador.” In Justice as Prevention: Vetting Public Employees in Transitional Societies, ed. Alexander
Mayer-Rieckh and Pablo de Greiff . New York: Social Science Research Council.
Zoellick, Robert. 2010a. “Democratizing Development Economics: An Address by the Honorable Robert
Zoellick, President of the World Bank.” Georgetown University, Washington, DC, September 29.
———. 2010b. “Keynote Speech at the International Institute for Strategic Studies 6th Global Strategic
Review Conference.” International Institute for Strategic Studies, Washington, DC, September 12.

Selected Indicators 2011

Table A1 Security
Technical notes

Selected world development indicators
Introduction
Classification of economies by region and income, FY2010
Table 1 Key indicators of development
Table 2 Poverty
Table 3 Millennium Development Goals: eradicating poverty and improving lives
Table 4 Economic activity
Table 5 Trade, aid, and finance
Table 6 Key indicators for other economies
Technical notes

336

Table A1

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

Security
Peacebuilding
and peacekeeping

Refugees
Battle- Intentional
related homicides
By
deaths per 100,000 country
(number)
people
of asylum
2000–08

Afghanistan
26,589
Angola
3,535
Armenia
0
Bangladesh
0
Belize
0
Benin
0
Bhutan
0
Bolivia
0
Burkina Faso
0
Burundi
4,937
Cambodia
0
Cameroon
0
Cape Verde
0
Central African Republic
350
Chad
4,328
China
0
Comoros
0
Congo, Dem. Rep.
75,118
Congo, Rep.
116
Côte d'Ivoire
1,265
Djibouti
0
Ecuador
0
Egypt, Arab Rep.
0
El Salvador
0
Eritrea
57
Ethiopia
3,555
Gambia, The
0
Georgia
648
Ghana
0
Guatemala
0
Guinea
1,174
Guinea-Bissau
0
Guyana
0
Haiti
244
Honduras
0
India
31,599
Indonesia
1,940
Iraq
124,002
Jordan
0
Kenya
0
Kiribati
0
Korea, Dem. Rep.
0
Kosovo
0
Kyrgyz Republic
0
Lao PDR
0
Lesotho
0
Liberia
2,487
Madagascar
0
Malawi
0
Maldives
0
Mali
97
Marshall Islands
0
Mauritania
0
Micronesia, Fed. Sts.
0
Moldova
0
Mongolia
0
Morocco
0
Mozambique
0
Myanmar
2,833

2000–09

4.5
..
2.5
2.6
32.7
..
1.4
12.6
3.6
..
..
5.9
..
..
..
1.2
..
..
..
3.9
0.7
18.0
0.6
51.8
..
3.3
..
7.1
1.8
46.0
..
..
20.7
18.6
58.0
2.8
1.1
..
1.8
4.8
5.2
..
..
7.8
..
34.8
1.3
..
..
1.1
..
..
..
..
7.7
11.9
0.5
..
0.2

2009

37
14,734
3,607
228,586
230
7,205
..
679
543
24,967
135
99,957
..
27,047
338,495
300,989
..
185,809
111,411
24,604
12,111
116,557
94,406
30
4,751
121,886
10,118
870
13,658
131
15,325
7,898
3
19
185,323
798
35,218
450,756
358,928
..
..
423
..
..
..
6,952
..
5,443
..
13,538
..
26,795
1
141
11
73
3,547
..

By country
of origin

Internally
displaced
persons
(number)

2009

2008

2,887,123
141,021
18,000
10,432
17
411
89,070
573
990
94,239
17,025
14,766
24
159,554
55,014
180,558
268
455,852
20,544
23,153
622
1,027
6,990
5,051
209,168
62,889
1,973
15,020
14,893
5,768
10,920
1,109
727
24,116
1,166
19,514
18,213
1,785,212
2,129
9,620
33
..
..
2,612
8,398
10
71,599
274
130
16
2,926
..
39,143
..
5,925
1,495
2,286
136
406,669

200,000
61,700
8,000
65,000
..
..
..
..
..
100,000
..
..
..
108,000
186,000
..
..
1,400,000
7,800
621,000
..
..
..
..
32,000
200,000
..
300,000
..
..
19,000
..
..
6,000
..
500,000
150,000
2,842,000
160,000
400,000
..
30,000
..
..
..
..
6,000
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
503,000

Military
expenditures

Operation
namea

Troops,
police, and
military
observers
(number)

% of central
government
expenditure

2010

2009

UNAMA

c

BINUB

18

13

MINURCATd
MINURCAT

1,456

MONUSCO

19,008

UNOCI

9,080

UNIOGBIS
MINUSTAH

11,797

UNAMI

233

UNMIK

16

UNMIL

9,369

Youth
population

%
Natural
of disasters
GDP (number)

Deaths
from
natural
disasters
(number)

% of
total
population
ages 15–34

% of
male
population
ages 15–34

2009

2009 2000–08 b

2000–09

2009

2009

9.2
..
16.1
10.8
..
6.8
..
7.9
12.1
..
12.8
..
2.1
..
..
17.9
..
..
5.3
8.8
..
..
7.6
2.9
..
..
..
29.3
1.9
3.6
..
..
..
..
3.8
16.3
..
..
16.1
8.9
..
..
..
21.4
3.7
3.1
..
9.9
..
..
14.4
..
..
..
1.9
5.8
11.0
..
..

2.1
4.6
4.0
1.1
1.1
1.0
..
1.6
1.3
3.8
1.2
1.6
0.6
1.8
6.5
2.0
..
1.1
1.3
1.6
3.7
3.3
2.1
0.6
..
1.3
0.7
5.6
0.7
0.4
..
..
..
0.0
0.8
2.8
0.9
6.3
6.1
1.8
..
..
..
3.6
0.4
2.6
0.8
1.1
1.2
..
2.0
..
3.8
..
0.5
1.4
3.4
0.9
..

..
..
..
13,241
..
..
..
916
..
833
..
..
..
..
..
111,029
187
8,164
..
..
..
..
3,189
1,813
..
..
..
..
..
2,216
1,103
..
..
..
435
63,679
182,209
..
..
2,075
..
..
..
323
..
..
103
..
2,390
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
1,545
2,017
138,968

34
34
37
34
36
34
40
36
34
33
39
36
38
35
32
32
33
34
33
36
38
35
37
36
34
33
33
29
36
33
33
35
34
36
37
35
34
37
36
37
36
31
37
38
35
40
33
34
35
48
32
36
35
36
35
39
36
33
37

18
17
19
15
19
17
21
18
17
17
20
18
19
17
15
17
17
17
17
18
17
17
19
17
17
16
17
15
18
16
17
17
18
18
19
18
18
19
19
19
18
16
19
19
18
19
16
17
17
30
16
18
17
18
18
20
18
17
19

..
..
..
137
..
..
..
39
..
36
..
..
..
..
..
731
14
126
..
..
..
..
98
28
..
..
..
..
..
41
35
..
..
..
31
365
232
..
..
85
..
..
..
16
..
..
10
..
38
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
52
50
17

337

Selected indicators 2011

Table A1

Security (continued)
Peacebuilding
and peacekeeping

Refugees
Battle- Intentional
related homicides
By
deaths per 100,000 country
(number)
people
of asylum

Nepal
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Pakistan
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Philippines
Rwanda
Samoa
São Tomé and Príncipe
Senegal
Sierra Leone
Solomon Islands
Somalia
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Swaziland
Syrian Arab Republic
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand
Timor-Leste
Togo
Tonga
Tunisia
Turkmenistan
Tuvalu
Uganda
Ukraine
Uzbekistan
Vanuatu
Vietnam
West Bank and Gaza
Yemen, Rep.
Zambia
Zimbabwe
Low income
Lower middle income

2000–08

2000–09

2009

11,520
0
128
124
11,107
0
0
5,433
3,800
0
0
184
212
0
3,983
24,807
12,363
0
0
0
0
2,067
0
0
0
0
0
..
5,432
0
247
0
0
0
0
0
0
..
..

1.8
13.0
..
1.3
7.3
8.8
12.3
3.8
1.5
..
..
3.0
2.4
..
..
7.4
..
1.0
3.0
2.3
1.0
7.9
..
..
..
1.2
2.9
..
8.7
6.3
2.5
..
1.9
3.9
4.0
7.5
8.4
..
..

108,461
120
325
9,127
1,740,711
9,703
89
95
54,016
..
..
22,151
9,051
..
1,815
251
186,292
759
1,054,466
2,679
118,731
105,297
1
8,531
..
92
60
..
127,345
7,334
555
4
2,357
..
170,854
56,785
3,995
..
..

Youth
population

Operation
namea

Troops,
police, and
military
observers
(number)

% of central
government
expenditure

%
Natural
of disasters
GDP (number)

Deaths
from
natural
disasters
(number)

% of
total
population
ages 15–34

% of
male
population
ages 15–34

2008

2010

2009

2009

2009 2000–08 b

2000–09

2009

2009

50,000
..
..
100,000
50,000
..
..
314,000
..
..
..
10,000
3,000
4,000
1,100,000
500,000
6,000,000
..
65,000
..
..
..
30,000
1,000
..
..
..
..
869,000
..
3,000
..
..
100,000
..
..
880,000
..
..

UNMIN

72

UNMISe

10,592

UNMIT

1,518

3,120
335
..
..
78,582
397
..
10,331
..
..
..
..
..
..
3,161
35,891
3,794
..
..
180
1,466
9,929
..
..
..
..
..
..
1,817
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

36
39
33
35
36
35
36
36
36
33
34
35
34
37
32
33
36
38
38
39
36
32
36
37
40
38
39
..
34
30
39
38
38
37
37
38
35
..
..

17
20
17
18
19
18
18
18
18
17
17
17
16
19
16
17
18
20
19
20
18
16
19
18
21
19
19
..
17
15
20
20
19
19
19
19
15
..
..

By country
of origin

Internally
displaced
persons
(number)

2009

5,108
1,478
822
15,609
35,132
70
77
993
129,109
..
33
16,305
15,417
66
678,309
145,721
368,195
32
17,914
562
1,204
502
7
18,378
5
2,260
743
..
7,554
24,522
6,669
..
339,289
95,201f
1,934
206
22,449
..
..

Military
expenditures

12.8
..
10.6
..
21.8
..
5.0
4.9
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
18.5
..
..
..
..
..
8.3
..
13.0
..
4.4
..
..
17.1
7.2
..
..
..
..
..
5.7
..
..
16.1

1.6
0.7
..
0.9
2.9
0.5
0.8
0.8
1.5
..
..
1.6
2.3
..
..
3.5
4.2
2.1
4.2
..
1.0
1.8
11.8
2.0
..
1.4
..
..
2.2
2.9
..
..
2.2
..
4.4
1.7
..
1.5
2.1

51
20
..
..
123
25
..
163
..
..
..
..
..
..
53
25
68
..
..
31
67
79
..
..
..
..
..
..
75
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

a. Data are as of October 2010. UNAMA is the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan, BINUB is the Bureau Intégré des Nations Unies au Burundi (United Nations Integrated
Office in Burundi), MINURCAT is the United Nations Mission in the Central African Republic and Chad, MONUSCO is the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic
Republic of Congo, UNOCI is the United Nations Operation in Côte d’Ivoire, UNIOGBIS is the United Nations Integrated Peacebuilding Office in Guinea-Bissau. MINUSTAH is the United Nations
Stabilization Mission in Haiti, UNMOGIP is the United Nations Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan, UNAMI is the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq, UNMIK is the Interim
Administration Mission in Kosovo, UNMIL is the United Nations Mission in Liberia, UNMIN is the United Nations Mission in Nepal, UNMIS is the United Nations Mission in Sudan, and UNMIT
is the United Nations Integrated Mission in Timor-Leste. b. Total over the period. c. Political mission administered by the United Nations Department of Peacekeeping Operations. d. Includes
peacekeepers in Chad. e. Does not include 22,061 troops, police, and military observers from the African Union–United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur. f. Only includes refugees under the
United Nations Refugee Agency mandate.

338

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

Technical Notes

UN Peacekeeping Operation or Political Mission

Table A1. Security

The name of the United Nations Peacekeeping Operation or
United Nations Political Mission, if one existed as of October 2010. Source: UN.

Battle-related deaths
Best estimates of the sum of battle deaths in civil wars from
2000 to 2008. For countries with multiple civil wars, the best
estimate for the total number of battle deaths from all conflicts is taken. Source: PRIO Battle Deaths Dataset Version
3.0. Where best estimates were missing in the PRIO Battle
Deaths Dataset Version 3.0, best estimates from the UCDP
Battle Deaths dataset (v 5) were taken. Where best estimates
were unavailable from both the PRIO Battle Deaths Dataset
Version 3.0 as well as the UCDP Battle Deaths dataset (v 5),
the weighted average of PRIO Battle Deaths Dataset Version
3.0’s low and high estimates was taken as the best estimate.

Intentional homicides
Denotes the homicide rate per 100,000 people for the latest
year that data are available from 2000 to 2009. The rates have
been reconciled into a single figure from all sources collecting
homicide statistics from both the health and the criminal justice sectors. Data from United Nations Office on Drugs and
Crime (UNOCDC) Crime Trends Survey (CTS) and from
the World Health Organization were used as the two main
sources of homicide statistics but preference was given to
UNODC’s CTS because of its superior coverage. Regression
analyses were used to determine the degree of correlation
between other criminal justice/police-based and health-based
sources and the two main sources of data. Where correlations
were high with the other sources, these were used to impute
single missing observations in the main sources of data. Once
single gaps were filled, both data sources were combined into
a single set of homicides based on new regression analyses
and later complemented with statistics from national sources.
Sources: UNODC-CTS; Eurostat (Health and Criminal Justice); Archer and Gartner Comparative Crime Data (1978);
World Health Organization (WHO) and United Nations
Children’s Fund (UNICEF); Pan American Health Organization; TransMONEE Database; national sources.

Refugees by country of asylum
Denotes the number of refugees hosted by a country as of
the end of 2009. Source: United Nations High Commission
for Refugees (UNHCR).

Refugees by country of origin
Denotes the number of refugees originating from each country. Source: UNHCR.

Internally displaced persons
Denotes the number of internally displaced people in a
country as of the end of 2008. Source: U.S. Committee for
Refugees and Immigrants.

UN personnel
The number of United Nations troops, civilian police, and
military observers as of October 2010. Source: UN.

Military expenditure as a percentage of central
government expenditure
Military expenditure as a percentage of central government
expenditure for the year. Military expenditures data from
Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI) are
derived from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO)
definition, which includes all current and capital expenditures on the armed forces, including peacekeeping forces;
defense ministries and other government agencies engaged
in defense projects; paramilitary forces, if these are judged to
be trained and equipped for military operations; and military
space activities. Such expenditures include military and civil
personnel, including retirement pensions of military personnel and social services for personnel; operation and maintenance; procurement; military research and development;
and military aid (in the military expenditures of the donor
country). Excluded are civil defense and current expenditures
for previous military activities, such as for veterans’ benefits,
demobilization, conversion, and destruction of weapons. This
definition cannot be applied for all countries, however, since
that would require much more detailed information than is
available about what is included in military budgets and off–
budget military expenditure items. (For example, military
budgets might or might not cover civil defense, reserves and
auxiliary forces, police and paramilitary forces, dual-purpose
forces such as military and civilian police, military grants
in kind, pensions for military personnel, and social security
contributions paid by one part of government to another.)
Source: Stockholm International Peace Research Institute
(SIPRI), Yearbook: Armaments, Disarmament and International Security. Note: Data for some countries are based on
partial or uncertain data or rough estimates.

Military expenditure as a percentage of GDP
Military expenditure as a percentage of GDP. Military expenditures data from SIPRI are derived from the NATO definition, which includes all current and capital expenditures on
the armed forces, including peacekeeping forces; defense
ministries and other government agencies engaged in defense
projects; paramilitary forces, if these are judged to be trained
and equipped for military operations; and military space
activities. Such expenditures include military and civil personnel, including retirement pensions of military personnel
and social services for personnel; operation and maintenance;
procurement; military research and development; and mili-

Selected indicators 2011

tary aid (in the military expenditures of the donor country).
Excluded are civil defense and current expenditures for previous military activities, such as for veterans’ benefits, demobilization, conversion, and destruction of weapons. This
definition cannot be applied for all countries, however, since
that would require much more detailed information than is
available about what is included in military budgets and offbudget military expenditure items. (For example, military
budgets might or might not cover civil defense, reserves and
auxiliary forces, police and paramilitary forces, dual-purpose
forces such as military and civilian police, military grants
in kind, pensions for military personnel, and social security
contributions paid by one part of government to another.)
Source: Stockholm International Peace Research Institute
(SIPRI), Yearbook: Armaments, Disarmament and International Security. Note: Data for some countries are based on
partial or uncertain data or rough estimates.

Number of natural disasters
The sum of natural disasters in a country from 2000 to
2008. This includes biological, hydrological, meteorological, technological, climatological, and geophysical disasters.
Source: Center for Research on the Epidemiology of Disasters (CRED).

Number of deaths from natural disasters
Total number of deaths from all natural disasters in a country from 2000 to 2009. This includes biological, hydrological,

339

meteorological, technological, climatological, and geophysical disasters. Source: CRED.

Total youth population ages 15 to 34 years
Percentage of total youth population ages 15 to 34 years out
of total population (both males and females). Source: Calculations based on data from the United States Census International Database.

Total male youth population ages 15 to 34 years
Percentage of male youth population ages 15 to 34 years out
of total population. Source: Calculations based on data from
the United States Census International Database.

Physical Rights Integrity Index
This indicator measures the extent of human rights abuses in
a country. It is a composite indicator made up of four subcomponents: torture, politically motivated disappearances,
extrajudicial killings, and politically motivated incarceration. The index ranges from 0 (no government respect for
these four rights) to 8 (full government respect for these four
rights). Source: CIRI (Cingranelli-Richards) Human Rights
Data Project, University of Binghamton, New York.
Number of years each leader has been in power. Calculated from the Archigos Dataset of Political Leaders (H. E.
Goemans, Kristian Skrede Gleditsch, and Giacomo Chiozza)
and the Central Intelligence Agency World Factbook.

Selected World Development
Indicators 2011

I

n this year’s edition, development data are in six tables
presenting comparative socioeconomic data for more
than 130 economies for the most recent year for which
data are available and, for some indicators, for an earlier year. An additional table presents basic indicators for 78
economies with sparse data or with populations of less than
3 million.
The indicators presented here are from more than 800
included in World Development Indicators 2010. Published
annually, World Development Indicators (WDI) reflects a
comprehensive view of the development process. WDI’s six
sections recognize the contribution of a wide range of factors:
progress on the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs)
and human capital development, environmental sustainability, macroeconomic performance, private sector development and the investment climate, and the global links that
influence the external environment for development.
WDI is complemented by a separately published database
that gives access to more than 900 time-series indicators for
237 economies and regions. This database is available at the
Open Data website (http://data.worldbank.org).

Data sources and methodology
Socioeconomic and environmental data presented here
are drawn from several sources: primary data collected by
the World Bank, member country statistical publications,
research institutes, and international organizations such as
the United Nations (UN) and its specialized agencies, the
International Monetary Fund (IMF), and the Organisation
for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). (See
the data sources in the technical notes following the tables for
a complete listing.) Although international standards of coverage, definition, and classification apply to most statistics
reported by countries and international agencies, inevitable
differences in timeliness and reliability arise from differences
in the capabilities and resources devoted to basic data collection and compilation. For some topics, competing sources of
data require review by the World Bank staff to ensure that the
most reliable data available are presented. In some instances,
where available data are deemed too weak to provide reliable

measures of levels and trends or do not adequately adhere to
international standards, the data are not shown.
The data presented are generally consistent with those in
World Development Indicators 2010. However, data have been
revised and updated wherever new information has become
available. Differences may also reflect revisions to historical
series and changes in methodology. Thus data of different
vintages may be published in different editions of World
Bank publications. Readers are advised not to compile data
series from different publications or different editions of the
same publication. Consistent time-series data are available
on the Open Data website (http://data.worldbank.org).
All dollar figures are in current U.S. dollars unless otherwise stated. The various methods used to convert from
national currency figures are described in the technical notes
following the tables.
Because the World Bank’s primary business is providing
lending and policy advice to its low- and middle-income
members, the issues covered in these tables focus mainly on
those economies. Where available, information on the highincome economies is also provided for comparison. Readers may wish to refer to national statistical publications and
publications of the OECD and the European Union (EU) for
more information on the high-income economies.

Classification of economies and
summary measures
The summary measures at the bottom of most tables include
economies classified by income per capita and by region.
Gross national income (GNI) per capita is used to determine
the following income classifications: low income, US$995 or
less in 2009; middle income, US$996 to US$12,195; and high
income, US$12,196 and above. A further division at GNI
per capita US$3,945 is made between lower-middle-income
and upper-middle-income economies. The classification of
economies based on per capita income occurs annually, so
the country composition of the income groups may change
annually. When these changes in classification are made on
the basis of the most recent estimates, aggregates based on
the new income classifications are recalculated for all past

341

342

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

periods to ensure that a consistent time series is maintained.
See the classification of economies at the end of this discussion for a list of economies in each group (including those
with populations of less than 3 million).
Summary measures are either totals (indicated by a t if
the aggregates include estimates for missing data and nonreporting countries, or by an s for simple sums of the data
available), weighted averages (w), or median values (m)
calculated for groups of economies. Data for the countries
excluded from the main tables (those presented in table 6)
have been included in the summary measures, where data are
available; otherwise, it is assumed that they follow the trend
of reporting countries. This approach gives a more consistent
aggregated measure by standardizing country coverage for
each period shown. Where missing information accounts for
a third or more of the overall estimate, however, the group
measure is reported as not available. The section on statistical methods in the technical notes provides further information on aggregation methods. Weights used to construct the
aggregates are listed in the technical notes for each table.

Terminology and country coverage
The term country does not imply political independence but
may refer to any territory for which authorities report separate social or economic statistics. Data are shown for economies as they were constituted in 2009, and historical data are
revised to reflect current political arrangements. Throughout
the tables, exceptions are noted. Unless otherwise noted, data
for China do not include data for Hong Kong SAR, China;
Macao SAR, China; or Taiwan, China. Data for Indonesia
include Timor-Leste through 1999 unless otherwise noted.
Montenegro declared independence from Serbia and Montenegro on June 3, 2006. When available, data for each country
are shown separately. However, some indicators for Serbia
continue to include data for Montenegro through 2005;
these data are footnoted in the tables. Moreover, data for
most indicators from 1999 onward for Serbia exclude data
for Kosovo, which in 1999 became a territory under international administration pursuant to UN Security Council
Resolution 1244 (1999); any exceptions are noted. Kosovo
became a World Bank member on June 29, 2009, and its data
are shown in the tables where available.

Technical notes
Because data quality and intercountry comparisons are often
problematic, readers are encouraged to consult the technical
notes that follow the tables, the list of classification of economies by region and income that follows this discussion, and
the footnotes to the tables. For more extensive documentation, see WDI 2010.

Symbols
.. means that data are not available or that aggregates cannot
be calculated because of missing data in the years shown.
0 or 0.0 means zero or small enough that the number would
round to zero at the displayed number of decimal places.
/ in dates, as in 2003/04, means that the period of time, usually 12 months, straddles two calendar years and refers to
a crop year, a survey year, or a fiscal year.
$ means current U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted.
> means more than.
< means less than.
Readers may find more information in WDI 2010, and
orders can be made online, by phone, or fax as follows:
For more information and to order online: http://data
.worldbank.org/data-catalog/world-development-indicators.
To order by phone: 1-800-645-7247
To order by fax: 1-703-661-1501
To order by mail: The World Bank, P.O. Box 960, Herndon,
VA 20172-0960, USA

343

Selected World Development Indicators 2011

Classification of economies by region and income, FY2011
East Asia and the Pacific
American Samoa
Cambodia
China
Fiji
Indonesia
Kiribati
Korea, Dem. Rep.
Lao PDR
Malaysia
Marshall Islands
Micronesia, Fed. Sts.
Mongolia
Myanmar
Palau
Papua New Guinea
Philippines
Samoa
Solomon Islands
Thailand
Timor-Leste
Tonga
Tuvalu
Vanuatu
Vietnam

UMC
LIC
LMC
UMC
LMC
LMC
LIC
LIC
UMC
LMC
LMC
LMC
LIC
UMC
LMC
LMC
LMC
LIC
LMC
LMC
LMC
LMC
LMC
LMC

Europe and Central Asia
Albania
Armenia
Azerbaijan
Belarus
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Bulgaria
Georgia
Kazakhstan
Kosovo
Kyrgyz Republic
Lithuania
Macedonia, FYR
Moldova
Montenegro
Romania
Russian Federation
Serbia
Tajikistan
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Ukraine
Uzbekistan

UMC
LMC
UMC
UMC
UMC
UMC
LMC
UMC
LMC
LIC
UMC
UMC
LMC
UMC
UMC
UMC
UMC
LIC
UMC
LMC
LMC
LMC

Latin America and the Caribbean
Antigua and Barbuda
Argentina
Belize
Bolivia
Brazil
Chile
Colombia
Costa Rica
Cuba
Dominica
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
El Salvador
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Haiti
Honduras
Jamaica
Mexico
Nicaragua
Panama
Paraguay
Peru
St. Kitts and Nevis
St. Lucia
St. Vincent and the Grenadines
Suriname
Uruguay
Venezuela, RB

Middle East and North Africa
Algeria
Djibouti
Egypt, Arab Rep.
Iran, Islamic Rep.
Iraq
Jordan
Lebanon
Libya
Morocco
Syrian Arab Republic
Tunisia
West Bank and Gaza
Yemen, Rep.

UMC
UMC
LMC
LMC
UMC
UMC
UMC
UMC
UMC
UMC
UMC
LMC
LMC
UMC
LMC
LMC
LIC
LMC
UMC
UMC
LMC
UMC
LMC
UMC
UMC
UMC
UMC
UMC
UMC
UMC

UMC
LMC
LMC
UMC
LMC
LMC
UMC
UMC
LMC
LMC
LMC
LMC
LMC

South Asia
Afghanistan
Bangladesh
Bhutan
India
Maldives
Nepal
Pakistan
Sri Lanka

LIC
LIC
LMC
LMC
LMC
LIC
LMC
LMC

Sub-Saharan Africa
Angola
Benin
Botswana
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cameroon
Cape Verde
Central African Republic
Chad
Comoros
Congo, Dem. Rep.
Congo, Rep.
Côte d´Ivoire
Eritrea
Ethiopia
Gabon
Gambia, The
Ghana
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Kenya
Lesotho
Liberia
Madagascar
Malawi
Mali
Mauritania
Mauritius
Mayotte
Mozambique
Namibia
Niger
Nigeria
Rwanda
São Tomé and Príncipe
Senegal
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Somalia
South Africa
Sudan
Swaziland
Tanzania
Togo
Uganda
Zambia
Zimbabwe

LMC
LIC
UMC
LIC
LIC
LMC
LMC
LIC
LIC
LIC
LIC
LMC
LMC
LIC
LIC
UMC
LIC
LIC
LIC
LIC
LIC
LMC
LIC
LIC
LIC
LIC
LIC
UMC
UMC
LIC
UMC
LIC
LMC
LIC
LMC
LMC
UMC
LIC
LIC
UMC
LMC
LMC
LIC
LIC
LIC
LIC
LIC

High-income OECD
Australia
Austria
Belgium
Canada
Czech Republic
Denmark
Finland
France
Germany
Greece
Hungary
Iceland
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Japan
Korea, Rep.
Luxembourg
Netherlands
New Zealand
Norway
Poland
Portugal
Slovak Republic
Slovenia
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
United Kingdom
United States
Other high income
Andorra
Aruba
Bahamas, The
Bahrain
Barbados
Bermuda
Brunei Darussalam
Cayman Islands
Channel Islands
Croatia
Cyprus
Equatorial Guinea
Estonia
Faeroe Islands
French Polynesia
Gibraltar
Greenland
Guam
Hong Kong SAR, China
Isle of Man
Kuwait
Latvia
Liechtenstein
Macao SAR, China
Malta
Monaco
Netherlands Antilles
New Caledonia
Northern Mariana Islands
Oman
Puerto Rico
Qatar
San Marino
Saudi Arabia
Singapore
Taiwan, China
Trinidad and Tobago
Turks and Caicos Islands
United Arab Emirates
Virgin Islands (U.S.)

Source: World Bank data.
This table classifies all World Bank member economies and all other economies with populations of more than 30,000. Economies are divided among income groups according to 2009 GNI
per capita, calculated using the World Bank Atlas method. The groups are low income (LIC), US$995 or less; lower middle income (LMC), US$996–3,945; upper middle income (UMC),
US$3,946–12,195; and high income, US$12,196 or more.

344

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

Table 1. Key indicators of development

Millions
2009

Average
annual %
growth
2000–09

Density
people
per sq. km
2009

Population
age
composition
%
ages 0–14
2009

30
3
35
18
40
3
22
8
9
162
10
11
9
10
4
194
8
16
8
15
20
34
4
11
17
1,331
7
46
66
4
5
21
4
10
6
10
14
83
6
5
83
5
63d
4
82
24
11
14
10
10
7
10
1,155
230
73
31
4
7
60
128
6
16
40
49
5
6
4
4
6
3
20
15
27
13
3
107

2.6
0.3
1.5
2.9
1.0
0.0
1.5
0.5
1.0
1.6
–0.4
0.6
3.3
1.9
0.2
1.2
–0.7
3.3
2.8
1.7
2.3
1.0
1.8
3.2
1.1
0.6
0.6
1.5
2.9
2.1
1.7
2.2
0.0
0.2
0.4
1.5
1.1
1.9
0.4
3.6
2.6
0.3
0.7d
–1.2
0.0
2.2
0.4
2.5
2.0
1.7
2.0
–0.2
1.4
1.3
1.5
2.5
1.7
1.9
0.6
0.1
2.4
0.7
2.6
0.4
0.9
1.7
1.3
3.7
2.0
–0.5
2.8
2.8
1.8
2.4
2.6
1.0

44
115
14
14
15
109
3
101
105
1,229
48
354
78
9
74
23
70
56
314
82
40
4
7
9
23
142
6,696
41
28
11
89
65
82
135
129
206
49
82
296
49
81
17
114d
62
235
103
87
128
40
358
65
112
383
125
44
70
64
338
203
350
66
6
68
502
28
27
410
39
4
54
33
158
82
10
3
55

46
24
27
45
25
20
19
15
24
31
15
17
43
36
15
26
13
46
38
33
41
17
41
46
23
20
12
29
47
40
26
41
15
14
18
31
31
32
32
42
44
17
18
17
14
38
14
42
43
36
37
15
31
27
24
41
21
28
14
13
34
24
43
17
29
38
25
43
30
15
43
46
29
44
39
28

Population

Afghanistan
Albania
Algeria
Angola
Argentina
Armenia
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bangladesh
Belarus
Belgium
Benin
Bolivia
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Brazil
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Central African Republic
Chad
Chile
China
Hong Kong SAR, China
Colombia
Congo, Dem. Rep.
Congo, Rep.
Costa Rica
Côte d´Ivoire
Croatia
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Egypt, Arab Rep.
El Salvador
Eritrea
Ethiopia
Finland
France
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Guatemala
Guinea
Haiti
Honduras
Hungary
India
Indonesia
Iran, Islamic Rep.
Iraq
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Korea, Rep.
Kyrgyz Republic
Lao PDR
Lebanon
Liberia
Libya
Lithuania
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Mali
Mauritania
Mexico

Gross national
income (GNI) a

PPP national
income (GNI) b

$
billions
2009

$
per
capita
2009

$
billions
2009

$
per
capita
2009

10.6
12.5
154.2
64.5
304.7
9.5
957.5
391.8
42.5
95.4
53.5
488.8
6.7
16.0
17.7
1,557.2
43.7
8.0
1.2
9.7
22.8
1,423.0
2.0
6.9
159.9
4,778.3
219.2
225.2
10.7
6.7
28.5
22.4
61.2
181.5
325.8
45.5
53.4
172.0
20.8
1.5
27.0
243.9
2,754.6
11.1e
3,484.7
16.6
323.1
36.8
3.8
..
13.6
130.1
1,368.7
513.4
330.6
69.7
197.2
191.6
2,112.5
4,830.3
22.3
107.1
30.7
966.6
4.6
5.6
33.6
0.6
77.2
38.1
7.9
4.2
198.7
8.9
3.2
958.8

370
3,950
4,420
3,490
7,570
3,100
43,770
46,850
4,840
590
5,540
45,310
750
1,620
4,700
8,040
5,770
510
150
650
1,170
42,170
450
610
9,420
3,590
31,420
4,930
160
1,830
6,230
1,060
13,810
17,310
58,930
4,510
3,920
2,070
3,370
300
330
45,680
42,680
2,530e
42,560
700
28,630
2,620
370
..f
1,820
12,980
1,180
2,230
4,530
2,210
44,310
25,740
35,080
37,870
3,740
6,740
770
19,830
870
880
7,970
160
12,020
11,410
420
280
7,230
680
960
8,920

32.1 c
25.8
283.6c
91.9
568.8
16.7
835.7
322.5
79.3
256.2
119.6
394.0
13.5
42.0
32.9
1,988.1
93.2
18.4
3.3
27.4
43.0
1,268.2
3.3
13.8
227.9
9,018.8
307.5
388.1
19.6
10.8
50.1c
34.5
84.9
247.7
208.5
81.8c
109.5
471.9
39.2c
3.1 c
77.4
183.8
2,192.9
20.6e
3,026.7
35.3
320.8
64.4c
9.5
..
27.9c
186.1
3,768.1
933.2
837.7
105.1
148.1
201.2
1,886.6
4,245.7
34.8
163.2
62.7
1,331.4
11.7
13.9
55.9
1.2
105.5c
55.9
20.1
11.6
371.8
15.4
6.5
1,515.5

1,110 c
8,170
8,130c
4,970
14,120
5,420
38,210
38,550
9,030
1,580
12,380
36,520
1,510
4,260
8,740
10,260
12,290
1,170
390
1,850
2,200
37,590
750
1,230
13,430
6,770
44,070
8,500
300
2,940
10,940c
1,640
19,170
23,610
37,720
8,100c
8,040
5,690
6,360c
640 c
930
34,430
33,980
4,700e
36,960
1,480
28,440
4,590c
940
..
3,730c
18,570
3,260
4,060
11,490
3,340
33,280
27,040
31,330
33,280
5,840
10,270
1,570
27,310
2,200
2,210
13,230
290
16,430c
16,740
1,050
760
13,530
1,190
1,960
14,110

Gross
domestic
product
per capita
% growth
2008–09

Male
Years
2008

Female
Years
2008

Adult
literacy
rate
% ages 15
and older
2008

–0.4
1.8
0.6
–2.3
–0.1
–14.6
–0.8
–3.8
8.0
4.4
0.4
–3.7
0.6
1.6
–3.2
–1.1
–4.6
0.1
0.6
–3.7
0.1
–3.7
0.5
–1.1
–2.5
8.5
1.6
–0.9
0.0
5.6
–2.8
1.4
–5.8
–4.8
–5.5
2.0
–0.7
2.8
–3.0
–1.0
5.9
–8.2
–3.2
–4.1e
–4.7
1.4
–2.4
–2.1
–2.6
1.3
–3.9
–6.2
6.2
3.4
0.5
1.6
–6.5
–1.1
–5.7
–5.1
0.4
–0.2
–0.5
–0.1
1.5
4.5
7.2
0.3
0.1
–14.6
–2.2
4.8
–3.3
1.9
–3.4
–7.5

44
74
71
45
72
70
79
78
68
65
65
77
60
64
73
69
70
52
49
59
51
79
45
47
76
71
79
69
46
53
77
56
72
74
77
70
72
68
67
57
54
76
78
68
78
56
78
67
56
59
70
70
62
69
70
64
78
79
79
79
71
61
54
77
63
64
70
57
72
66
59
52
72
48
55
73

44
80
74
49
79
77
84
83
73
67
77
83
63
68
78
76
77
54
52
63
52
83
49
50
82
75
86
77
49
55
81
59
80
81
81
75
78
72
76
62
57
83
85
75
83
58
82
74
60
63
75
78
65
73
73
72
82
83
85
86
75
72
55
83
72
66
74
60
77
78
62
54
77
49
59
78

..
99
73
70
98
100
..
..
100
55
100
..
41
91
98
90
98
29
66
78
76
..
55
33
99
94
..
93
67
..
96
55
99
..
..
88
84
66
84
65
36
..
..
100
..
66
97
74
38
..
84
99
63
92
82
78
..
..
99
..
92
100
87
..
99
73
90
58
88
100
71
73
92
26
57
93

Life expectancy
at birth

345

Selected World Development Indicators 2011

Table 1. Key indicators of development (continued)
Population

Millions
2009
Moldova
Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar
Nepal
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Norway
Pakistan
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Romania
Russian Federation
Rwanda
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Slovak Republic
Somalia
South Africa
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Sweden
Switzerland
Syrian Arab Republic
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand
Togo
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
United States
Uruguay
Uzbekistan
Venezuela, RB
Vietnam
West Bank and Gaza
Yemen, Rep.
Zambia
Zimbabwe
World
Low income
Middle income
Lower middle income
Upper middle income
Low and middle income
East Asia & Pacific
Europe & Central Asia
Latin America &
the Caribbean
Middle East & North Africa
South Asia
Sub-Saharan Africa
High income

Average
annual %
growth
2000–09

Density
people
per sq. km
2009

4
32
23
50
29
17
4
6
15
155
5
170
3
7
6
29
92
38
11
21
142
10
25
13
7
6
5
5
9
49
46
20
42
9
8
21
7
44
68
7
10
75
5
33
46
5
62
307
3
28
28
87
4
24
13
13
6,775s
846
4,813
3,811
1,002
5,659
1,944
404

–1.4
1.2
2.5
0.8
2.0
0.4
1.2
1.3
3.6
2.4
0.8
2.3
1.7
2.5
1.9
1.3
1.9
–0.1
0.4
–0.5
–0.3
2.5
2.3
2.6
–0.3
3.3
2.4
0.1
2.3
1.3
1.5
0.9
2.1
0.5
0.8
2.7
1.3
2.8
0.9
2.6
1.0
1.3
1.4
3.2
–0.7
3.9
0.5
0.9
0.1
1.3
1.7
1.3
3.3
2.9
2.4
0.1
1.2w
2.2
1.2
1.2
0.9
1.3
0.8
0.1

110
71
28
76
201
487
16
47
12
166
16
215
46
15
16
23
303
125
116
94
9
394
12
63
83
78
6,943
112
14
40
91
312
17
22
191
112
49
48
132
119
66
96
11
161
80
54
254
33
19
64
32
278
654
43
17
32
52w
48
61
122
21
58
122
18

572
331
1,568
840
1,117

1.2
1.8
1.6
2.5
0.7

28
38
324
35
33

Population
age
composition
%
ages 0–14
2009

Gross national
income (GNI) a
$
billions
2009

PPP national
income (GNI) b

$
per
capita
2009

$
billions
2009

$
per
capita
2009

17
28
44
27
37
18
20
35
50
43
19
37
29
40
34
30
34
15
15
15
15
42
32
44
18
43
16
15
45
31
15
24
39
17
15
35
37
45
22
40
23
27
29
49
14
19
17
20
23
29
30
26
45
44
46
40
27w
39
27
28
25
29
23
19

5.7g
90.7h
10.0
..
13.0
815.8
114.5
5.8
5.2
175.8
417.3
172.9
23.2
7.9
14.4
120.9
164.5
467.5
222.6
178.9
1,329.7
4.6
439.0
12.9
43.8
1.9
185.7
87.4
..
284.5
1,464.7
40.4
51.6
455.2
431.1
50.9
4.8
21.3i
254.7
2.9
38.8
653.1
17.5
15.0
128.8
..
2,567.5
14,502.6
31.3
30.5
288.1
88.0
..
25.0
12.6
..
59,219.0t
425.7
16,231.0
8,757.7
7,483.6
16,671.5
6,109.6
2,746.1

1,590g
2,790h
440
..f
440
49,350
26,830
1,000
340
1,140
86,440
1,020
6,710
1,180
2,270
4,150
1,790
12,260
20,940
8,330
9,370
460
17,700
1,030
5,990
340
37,220
16,130
..f
5,770
31,870
1,990
1,220
48,930
56,370
2,410
700
500i
3,760
440
3,720
8,730
3,420
460
2,800
..j
41,520
47,240
9,360
1,100
10,150
1,010
..k
1,060
970
..f
8,741w
503
3,373
2,298
7,471
2,946
3,143
6,793

10.9g
144.8h
20.1
..
34.7
669.6
112.8
14.1c
10.1
305.7
270.6
459.4
43.3c
15.3c
28.1
237.5
326.1
703.5
243.1
310.6
2,609.0
10.6
595.4
22.4
83.6
4.5
248.6
117.1
..
496.4
1,453.6
95.9
84.6
358.7
319.9
97.5
13.5
57.5i
518.0
5.6
81.5
1,027.3
35.7c
39.0
284.8
..
2,310.5
14,345.3
43.2
80.2c
351.1
249.1
..
55.1
16.5
..
72,038.7t
1,014.5
30,593.8
18,130.0
12,500.6
31,607.3
11,640.7
5,104.6

3,060g
4,450h
880
..
1,180
40,510
26,430
2,450c
660
1,980
56,050
2,710
12,530c
2,270c
4,430
8,140
3,540
18,440
22,870
14,460
18,390
1,060
24,000
1,790
11,420
790
49,850
21,600
..
10,060
31,630
4,720
2,000
38,560
41,830
4,620
1,950
1,350i
7,640
850
7,820
13,730
6,990c
1,190
6,190
..
37,360
46,730
12,910
2,890c
12,370
2,850
..
2,340
1,280
..
10,633w
1,199
6,357
4,758
12,479
5,586
5,989
12,628

28
31
32
43
17

3,970.9
1,189.2
1,704.9
919.8
42,583.9

6,936
3,594
1,088
1,096
38,139

5,920.5
2,623.1
4,658.6
1,675.7
40,723.8

10,342
7,927
2,972
1,996
36,473

Gross
domestic
product
per capita
% growth
2008–09
–6.4g
3.7h
3.9
11.8
2.8
–4.5
–1.6
–2.3
–2.9
0.6
–2.8
1.5
0.8
2.1
–5.5
–0.2
–0.9
1.6
–2.8
–8.4
–7.8
2.4
–2.2
–1.1
–2.5
1.5
–4.2
–6.4
..
–2.8
–4.5
2.8
1.7
–5.7
0.5
1.5
1.7
2.5i
–2.8
0.0
2.1
–5.9
6.6
3.6
–14.6
–3.2
–5.6
–3.3
2.5
6.3
–4.8
4.2
..
0.8
3.7
..
–3.0w
2.5
1.4
5.6
–3.4
1.3
6.6
–6.2
–2.9
1.6
5.4
–1.2
–3.9

Life expectancy
at birth
Male
Years
2008

Female
Years
2008

65
69
47
59
66
78
78
70
51
47
78
66
73
59
70
71
70
71
76
70
62
48
71
54
71
46
78
71
48
50
78
70
57
79
80
72
64
55
66
61
72
70
61
52
63
77
78
76
72
65
71
72
72
61
45
44
67w
56
67
66
68
65
70
65

72
74
49
64
67
82
82
76
52
48
83
67
78
63
74
76
74
80
82
77
74
52
75
57
76
49
83
79
51
53
84
78
60
83
85
76
69
56
72
64
76
74
69
53
74
79
82
81
80
71
77
76
75
65
46
45
71w
58
71
70
75
69
74
74

70
69
63
51
77

77
73
65
53
83

Adult
literacy
rate
% ages 15
and older
2008
98
56
54
92
58
..
..
78
29
60
..
54
94
60
95
90
94
100
95
98
100
70
86
42
..
40
95
..
..
89
98
91
69
..
..
84
100
73
94
65
78
89
100
75
100
90
..
..
98
99
95
93
94
61
71
91
83w
66
83
80
93
80
93
98
91
74
61
62
98

Note: For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
a. Calculated using the World Bank Atlas method. b. PPP is purchasing power parity; see the technical notes. c. The estimate is based on regression; others are extrapolated from the latest
International Comparison Program benchmark estimates. d. Data exclude the French overseas departments of French Guiana, Guadeloupe, Martinique, and Réunion. e. Data exclude Abkhazia
and South Ossetia. f. Estimated to be low income (US$995 or less). g. Excludes data for Transnistria. h. Data include Former Spanish Sahara i. Data refer to mainland Tanzania only.
j. Estimated to be high income (US$12,196 or more). k. Estimated to be lower middle income (US$996–3,945).

346

Table 2

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

Poverty
International poverty line
National poverty line
Population below national poverty line
Survey
year

Afghanistan
Albania
Algeria
Angola
Argentina
Armenia
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bangladesh
Belarus
Belgium
Benin
Bolivia
Bosnia and
Herzegovina
Brazil
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Central African
Republic
Chad
Chile
China
Hong Kong
SAR, China
Colombia
Congo, Dem. Rep.
Congo, Rep.
Costa Rica
Côte d´Ivoire
Croatia
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Egypt, Arab Rep.
El Salvador
Eritrea
Ethiopia
Finland
France
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Guatemala
Guinea
Haiti
Honduras
Hungary
India
Indonesia
Iran, Islamic Rep.
Iraq
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Korea, Rep.
Kyrgyz Republic
Lao PDR
Lebanon
Liberia
Libya

2007
2002
1988

1998–99

1995
2000
2002
1999
2000
2001–02
1998
1997
1998
1998
2004
2001

1995–96
2003

2002
2004–05
2005
1989
2002

2000
1999
1995–96
2000
1993–94
1995–96

2002
1998–99
2000
1994
1987
1998–99
1993
1993–94
1996

1997
2001
1997
2003
1997–98

National
%
42.0
25.4
12.2
..
..
55.1
..
..
68.1
48.9
30.5
..
29.0
45.2
19.5
22.0
36.0
54.6
68.0
34.7
40.2e
..
..
43.4
18.7e
..
..
55.7
71.3
42.3
31.7
..
11.2
..
..
36.5e
52.2e
22.9
38.8e, g
53.0
45.5
..
..
52.1
..
39.5
..
56.2
40.0
65.0
52.5
14.5
36.0
17.6
..
..
..
..
..
..
21.3
17.6
52.0
..
49.9
38.6
..
..
..

Survey
year
2005
1995

2001

2001
2005
2004
2003
2007

2002–03
2001
2003
2007
2007

2006

2006

2004
2004

2007
2006
1999–2000
2006
1999–2000

2003
2005–06
2006
1995
2004
1997
1999–2000
2004

2002
2002
2005/06
2005
2002–03

National
%
..
18.5
22.6
..
..
50.9
..
..
49.6
40.0
17.4
..
39.0
37.7

Survey
year
2002a
1988a
2000a
2005b, c
2003a
2001a

2000a
2005a
2003a
2005c

Population
below
$1.25
a day
%

Poverty
gap at
$1.25
a day
%

Population
below
$2.00 a day
%

..
<2
6.6
54.3
4.5
10.6
6.3
..
..
57.8d
<2
..
47.3
19.6

..
<0.5
1.8
29.9
1
1.9
1.1
..
..
17.3d
<0.5
..
15.7
9.7

..
8.7
23.8
70.2
11.3
43.4
27.1
..
..
85.4d
<2
..
75.3
30.3

Survey
year
2005a
1995a
2006b, c
2007a
2005a

2005a
2007a

2007c

Population
below
$1.25
a day
%

Poverty
gap at
$1.25
a day
%

..
<2
6.8
..
3.4
3.7
<2
..
..
49.6d
<2
..
..
11.9

..
<0.5
1.4
..
1.2
0.7
<0.5
..
..
13.1d
<0.5
..
..
5.6

..
7.8
23.6
..
7.3
21
<2
..
..
81.3d
<2
..
..
21.9

Population
below
$2.00 a day
%

..
21.5
12.8
46.4
..
30.1
39.9e
..

2004a
2005c
2001a
1998a
1998a
2004a
1996a

<2
7.8
2.6
70
86.4
40.2
51.5
..

<0.5
1.6
<0.5
30.2
47.3
11.3
18.9
..

<2
18.3
7.8
87.6
95.4
68.2
74.4
..

2007a
2007c
2003a
2003a
2006a
2007a
2001a

<2
5.2
<2
56.5
81.3
25.8
32.8
..

<0.5
1.3
<0.5
20.3
36.4
6.1
10.2
..

<2
12.7
<2
81.2
93.4
57.8
57.7
..

..
..
13.7e

1993a
2002–03a
2003c

82.8
61.9
<2

57
25.6
<0.5

90.7
83.3
5.3

2003a

62.4
..
<2

28.3
..
<0.5

81.9
..
2.4

a

f

f

15.9f
..
16
..
..
<2
23.3
<2
<2
..
4.4
4.7
<2
6.4
..
39
..
..
13.4
..
30
..
11.7
70.1
..
18.2
<2
41.6f
29.4
<2
..
..
..
..
..
<2
<2
19.7
..
3.4
44d
..
..
..

4f
..
5.7
..
..
<0.5
6.8
<0.5
<0.5
..
1.3
1.2
<0.5
2.7
..
9.6
..
..
4.4
..
10.5
..
3.5
32.2
..
8.2
<0.5
10.8f
7.1
<0.5
..
..
..
..
..
<0.5
<0.5
6.1
..
<0.5
12.1d
..
..
..

36.3f
..
27.9
..
..
4.3
46.8
<2
<2
..
12.3
12.8
18.4
13.2
..
77.5
..
..
30.4
..
53.6
..
24.3
87.2
..
29.7
<2
75.6f
60
8
..
..
..
..
..
3.5
<2
39.9
..
27.5
76.8d
..
..
..

..
..
45.1
..
..
23.9
..
11.1
..
..
48.5e
38.3e
16.7
30.7e, g
..
44.2
..
..
54.5
..
28.5
..
51.0
..
..
50.7
17.3
28.6
16.7
..
..
..
..
..
..
14.2
15.4
46.6
..
43.1
33.5
..
..
..

2002

2003c
2005–06a
2005a
2005c
1998a
2001a
1993c
2005c
2005c
1999–00a
2005c
1999–00a

2002a
1998–99

a

2002c
1994a
2001c
2005c
2002a
1993–94a
2005a
1998a

2002–03a
2003a
1997a
2004a
1997–98a
2007a

28.4
..
15.4
59.2
54.1
2.4
24.1
<2
<2
..
5
9.8
<2
11
..
55.6
..
..
15.1
..
39.1
..
16.9
36.8
54.9
22.2
<2
49.4f
21.4f
<2
..
..
..
..
..
<2
3.1
19.6
..
21.8
49.3d
..
83.7
..

8.7
..
6.1
25.3
22.8
<0.5
6.7
<0.5
<0.5
..
0.9
3.2
<0.5
4.8
..
16.2
..
..
4.7
..
14.4
..
6.5
11.5
28.2
10.2
<0.5
14.4f
4.6f
<0.5
..
..
..
..
..
<0.5
<0.5
4.6
..
4.4
14.9d
..
40.8
..

2006
f

51.1
..
26.3
79.5
74.4
8.6
49.1
<2
<2
..
15.1
20.4
19.3
20.5
..
86.4
..
..
34.2
..
63.3
..
29.8
63.8
72.1
34.8
<2
81.7f
53.8f
8.3
..
..
..
..
..
11
17.2
42.7
..
51.9
79.9d
..
94.8
..

c

2005a
2006c

2007c
2002
2005a
1996c
2007c
2007c
2004–05a
2007c
2005a

2005a
2006a
2006c
2003a
2006c
2004a
2004–05a
2007a
2005a

2006a
2007a
2005–06a
2007a
2002–03a

347

Selected World Development Indicators 2011

Table 2

Poverty (continued)
International poverty line
National poverty line
Population below national poverty line
Survey
year

Lithuania
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Mali
Mauritania
Mexico
Moldova
Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar
Nepal
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Norway
Pakistan
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Romania
Russian Federation
Rwanda
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Slovak Republic
Somalia
South Africa
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Sweden
Switzerland
Syrian Arab Republic
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand
Togo
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
United States
Uruguay
Uzbekistan
Venezuela, RB
Vietnam
West Bank and Gaza
Yemen, Rep.
Zambia
Zimbabwe

1999
1997–98
1989
1998
1996
2002
2001
1990–91
1996–97
2004–05
1995–96

1998
1989–93
1985
1993
1997
1996
1990
2003
1994
1996
1995
1998
1999–2000
1992
1989
2004
2000
1995–96

2003
1991
1994
1987–89
1990
1994
2002–03
2000

2000–01
1989
1998
1998
1998
1990–91

National
%
..
71.3e
65.3
15.5
63.8
50.0
50.6
62.4
13.1
69.4
32.0
41.8
..
..
47.9
63.0
43.0
..
28.6
37.3
37.5
20.5i
52.2
32.1
14.6
..
25.4
31.4
60.3e
..
33.4
..
82.8
..
16.8
..
38.0e
..
25.0
..
..
..
..
72.4
38.6
9.8
32.3
7.4
28.3
..
38.8e
31.5
..
..
..
..
31.5
31.3
37.4
..
41.8
72.9
25.8

Survey
year

2005
2004–05

2000
2004
2002
1998–99
2002–03
2003–04

2001
1992–93
1998–99
2003

2004
1997
2001
2002
2002
2005–06

2003–04

2008
2002

2007
2000–01
1998
1995
2002
2005–06
2003

2003
1997–99
2002

2004
1995–96

National
%

Survey
year

..
68.7e
52.4
..
..
46.3
47.0
48.5
19.0
55.2
..
30.9
..
..
45.8
..
34.1
..
32.6
36.8
..
..
51.6
25.1
14.8
..
28.9
19.6
56.9e
..
..
..
70.2
..
..
..
22.0e
..
22.7
..
..
..
..
53.5
35.7
13.6
..
7.6
27.0
..
31.1e
19.5
..
..
..
..
27.2
52.0
28.9
..
..
68.0
34.9

2002a
2001a
1997–98a
1997c
2001a
1995–96a
2006a
2004a
2000a
1996–97a
1995–96a

2001c
1994a
1996–97a
2001–02a
2004c
1996a
2005c
2005c
2003a
2002a
2002a
2002a
1984–85a
2001a
2003a
1989–90a
1992c
1995a
1995–96

a

2003a
1991–92a
2002a
2006a
1995a
2002a
1993c
2002a
2005a

2005b, c
2003c
2004a
1998a
2002–03a

Population
below
$1.25
a day
%

Poverty
gap at
$1.25
a day
%

Population
below
$2.00 a day
%

<2
76.3
83.1
<2
61.2
23.4
<2
8.1
6.3
81.3
..
68.4
..
..
19.4
78.2
68.5
..
35.9
9.2
35.8
9.3
8.2
22
<2
..
2.9
<2
63.3
..
44.2
<2
62.8
..
<2
..
21.4
..
16.3
..
..
..
..
36.3
72.6
<2
38.7
6.5
2
63.5
57.4
<2
..
..
..
<2
..
18.4
24.2
..
12.9
64.6
..

<0.5
41.4
46
<0.5
25.8
7.1
<0.5
1.7
0.9
42
..
26.7
..
..
6.7
38.6
32.1
..
7.9
2.7
12.3
3.4
2
5.5
<0.5
..
0.8
<0.5
19.7
..
14.3
<0.5
44.8
..
<0.5
..
5.2
..
3
..
..
..
..
10.3
29.7
<0.5
11.4
1.3
<0.5
25.8
22.7
<0.5
..
..
..
<0.5
..
8.8
5.1
..
3
27.1
..

<2
88.7
93.5
6.8
82
48.3
4.8
28.9
24.3
92.9
..
88.1
..
..
37.5
91.5
86.4
..
73.9
18
57.4
18.4
19.4
43.8
<2
..
13
3.7
88.4
..
71.3
<2
75
..
<2
..
39.9
..
46.7
..
..
..
..
68.8
91.3
15.1
69.3
20.4
9.6
85.7
79.8
<2
..
..
..
4.5
..
31.7
52.5
..
36.3
85.1
..

Survey
year
2004a
2005a
2004–05a, h
2004c
2006a
2000a
2008c
2007a
2007a
2002–03a
2003–04a

2005c
2005a
2003–04a
2004–05a
2006c
2007c
2007c
2006a
2005a
2007a
2007a
2000a
2005a
2008a
2003a
1996c
2000a
2002a

2004a
2000–01a
2004a
2000a
2006a
1998a
2005a
2008a

2007c
2006c
2006a
2005a
2004–05a

Population
below
$1.25
a day
%

Poverty
gap at
$1.25
a day
%

Population
below
$2.00 a day
%

<2
67.8
73.9
<2
51.4
21.2
4
2.4
2.5
74.7
..
55.1
..
..
15.8
65.9
64.4
..
22.6
9.5
..
6.5
7.7
22.6
<2
..
<2
<2
76.6
..
33.5
<2
53.4
..
<2
..
26.2
..
14
..
..
..
..
21.5
88.5
<2
..
2.6
2.6
24.8
51.5
<2
..
..
..
<2
..
3.5
21.5
..
17.5
64.3
..

<0.5
26.5
32.3
<0.5
18.8
5.7
1.8
0.5
0.5
35.4
..
19.7
..
..
5.2
28.1
29.6
..
4.4
3.1
..
2.7
2.3
5.5
<0.5
..
<0.5
<0.5
38.2
..
10.8
<0.5
20.3
..
<0.5
..
8.2
..
2.6
..
..
..
..
5.1
46.8
<0.5
..
<0.5
<0.5
7
19.1
<0.5
..
..
..
<0.5
..
1.2
4.6
..
4.2
32.8
..

<2
89.6
90.4
7.8
77.1
44.1
8.2
11.5
14
90
..
77.6
..
..
31.8
85.6
83.9
..
60.3
17.8
..
14.2
17.8
45
<2
..
4.1
<2
90.3
..
60.3
<2
76.1
..
<2
..
42.9
..
39.7
..
..
..
..
50.8
96.6
11.5
..
12.8
8.2
49.6
75.6
<2
..
..
..
4.3
..
10.2
48.4
..
46.6
81.5
..

Note: For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes.
a. Expenditure base. b. Covers urban area only. c. Income base. d. Adjusted by spatial consumer price index information. e. Due to security concerns, the survey covered only 56 percent of
rural villages and 65 percent of the rural population. f. Weighted average of urban and rural estimates. g. Covers rural area only. h. Due to change in survey design, the most recent survey is not
strictly comparable with the previous one. i. Survey covers Asunción metropolitan area.

348

Table 3

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

Millennium Development Goals: Eradicating poverty and improving lives

Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger

Achieve
universal
primary
education

Promote
gender
equality

Reduce
child
mortality

Improve
maternal
health

Combat HIV/AIDS
and other diseases

Share of
Prevalence
Ratio of
Incidence
poorest
of child
girls to boys
Maternal
HIV
of
quintile
Vulnerable malnutrition
enrollments
Under-fi ve mortality prevalence tuberculosis
in national employment
% of
Primary
in primary
mortality
rate per
% of
per
consumption
% of
children
completion and secondary rate per
100,000
population
100,000
or income % employment under age 5
rate %
school %
1,000
live births ages 15–49
people

Afghanistan
Albania
Algeria
Angola
Argentina
Armenia
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bangladesh
Belarus
Belgium
Benin
Bolivia
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Brazil
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Central African Republic
Chad
Chile
China
Hong Kong SAR, China
Colombia
Congo, Dem. Rep.
Congo, Rep.
Costa Rica
Côte d´Ivoire
Croatia
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Egypt, Arab Rep.
El Salvador
Eritrea
Ethiopia
Finland
France
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Guatemala
Guinea
Haiti
Honduras
Hungary
India
Indonesia
Iran, Islamic Rep.
Iraq
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Korea, Rep.
Kyrgyz Republic
Lao PDR
Lebanon
Liberia
Libya
Lithuania
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Mali
Mauritania
Mexico

Develop
a global
Ensure environmental partnership for
sustainability
development
Carbon
dioxide
emissions
per capita
metric
tons

Access to
improved
sanitation
facilities
% of
population

Internet
users
per 100
people a

1995–2008 b

2008

2000–08 b

2008

2008

2009

2008

2007

2008

2007

2008

2008

..
7.8c
6.9c
2.0c
3.6d,e
8.6c
..
8.6e
13.3c
9.4c
8.8c
8.5e
6.9c
2.7c
6.7c
3.0e
8.7c
7.0c
9.0c
6.5c
5.6c
7.2e
5.2c
6.3c
4.1e
5.7e
5.3e
2.3e
5.5c
5.0c
4.4e
5.0c
8.8c
10.2e
8.3e
4.4e
3.4e
9.0c
4.3e
..
9.3c
9.6e
7.2e
5.4c
8.5e
5.2c
6.7e
3.4e
5.8c
2.5e
2.5e
8.6c
8.1c
7.4c
6.4c
..
7.4e
5.7e
6.5e
..
7.2c
8.7c
4.7c
7.9e
8.8c
8.5c
..
6.4c
..
6.8c
6.2c
7.0c
6.4e
6.5c
6.2c
3.8c

..
..
..
..
19f
..
9
9
53
..
..
10
..
..
..
27
9
..
..
..
..
10 f
..
..
24
..
7
46
..
..
20
..
16 f
13
5
42
34 f
25
36
..
52 f
9
6
62
7
..
27
..
..
..
..
7
..
63
43
..
12
7
19
11
..
..
..
25
47
..
..
..
..
9
..
..
22
..
..
30

32.9
6.6
11.1
27.5
2.3
4.2
..
..
8.4
41.3
1.3
..
20.2
5.9
1.6
2.2
1.6
37.4
38.9
28.8
16.6
..
21.8
33.9
0.5
6.8
..
5.1
28.2
11.8
..
16.7
..
2.1
..
3.4
6.2
6.8
6.1
34.5
34.6
..
..
2.3
1.1
13.9
..
17.7
22.5
18.9
8.6
..
43.5
19.6
..
7.1
..
..
..
..
3.6
4.9
16.5
..
2.7
31.6
4.2
20.4
5.6
..
36.8
15.5
..
27.9
23.2
3.4

..
..
114
..
102
98
..
99
121
54
96
86
65
98
..
..
90
38
45
79
73
96
35
31
95
96
..
110
53
73
93
48
102
95
101
91
106
95
89
47
52
98
..
100
104
82
101
80
55
..
90
95
94
106
117
..
99
99
101
..
100
105g
..
99
92
75
87
58
..
92
71
54
96
57
64
104

58
..
..
..
105
104
97
97
98
106
101
98
..
99
102
103
97
85g
91
90
84
99
69
64
99
104
..
104
76
..
102
..
102
101
102
103
100
..
98
77
85
102
100
96
98
96
97
94
77
..
107
98
92
98
116
..
103
101
99
100
102
98g
96
97
100
87
103
86
105
100
97
99
103
78
103
102

199
15
32
161
14
22
5
4
34
52
12
5
118
51
14
21
10
166
166
88
154
6
171
209
9
19
..
19
199
128
11
119
5
4
4
32
24
21
17
55
104
3
4
29
4
69
3
40
142
87
30
6
66
39
31
44
4
4
4
3
25
29
84
5
37
59
12
112
19
6
58
110
6
191
117
17

1,400
31
120
610
70
29
8
5
38
340
15
5
410
180
9
58
13
560
970
290
600
12
850
1,200
26
38
..
85
670
580
44
470
14
8
5
100
140
82
110
280
470
8
8
48
7
350
2
110
680
300
110
13
230
240
30
75
3
7
5
6
59
45
530
18
81
580
26
990
64
13
440
510
31
830
550
85

..
..
0.1
2.1
0.5
0.1
0.2
0.2
0.2
..
0.2
0.2
1.2
0.2
<0.1
0.6
..
1.6
2.0
0.8
5.1
0.4
6.3
3.5
0.3
0.1h
..
0.6
..
3.5
0.4
3.9
<0.1
..
0.2
1.1
0.3
..
0.8
1.3
2.1
0.1
0.4
0.1
0.1
1.9
0.2
0.8
1.6
2.2
0.7
0.1
0.3
0.2
0.2
..
0.2
0.1
0.4
..
..
0.1
..
<0.1
0.1
0.2
0.1
1.7
..
0.1
0.1
11.9
0.5
1.5
0.8
0.3

190
16
58
290
30
73
7
0
110
220
43
9
92
140
51
46
43
220
360
490
190
5
340
290
11
97
91
36
380
390
11
410
25
9
7
73
72
20
32
97
370
7
6
110
5
200
6
63
300
250
64
16
170
190
20
64
9
6
7
22
6
180
330
88
160
150
14
280
17
71
260
320
100
320
320
19

0.0
1.4
4.1
1.4
4.6
1.6
17.7
8.3
3.7
0.3
6.9
9.7
0.5
1.4
7.7
1.9
6.8
0.1
0.0
0.3
0.3
16.9
0.1
0.0
4.3
5.0
5.8
1.4
0.0
0.4
1.8
0.3
5.6
12.1
9.1
2.1
2.2
2.3
1.1
0.1
0.1
12.1
6.0
1.4
9.6
0.4
8.8
1.0
0.1
0.2
1.2
5.6
1.4
1.8
7.0
3.3
10.2
9.3
7.7
9.8
3.8
14.7
0.3
10.4
1.2
0.3
3.2
0.2
9.3
4.5
0.1
0.1
7.3
0.0
0.6
4.5

37
98
95
57
90
90
100
100
45
53
93
100
12
25
95
80
100
11
46
29
47
100
34
9
96
55
..
74
23
30
95
23
99
98
100
83
92
94
87
14
12
100
100
95
100
13
98
81
19
17
71
100
31
52
..
73
99
100
..
100
98
97
31
100
93
53
..
17
97
..
11
56
96
36
26
85

1.7
23.9
11.9
3.1
28.1
6.2
70.8
71.2
28.2
0.3
32.1
68.1
1.8
10.8
34.7
37.5
34.7
0.9
0.8
0.5
3.8
75.3
0.4
1.2
32.5
22.5
67.0
38.5
..
4.3
32.3
3.2
50.5
57.8
83.3
21.6
28.8
16.6
10.6
4.1
0.4
82.5
67.9
23.8
75.5
4.3
43.1
14.3
0.9
10.1
13.1
58.5
4.5
7.9
32.0
1.0
62.7
47.9
41.8
75.2
27.4
10.9
8.7
75.8
16.1
8.5
22.5
0.5
5.1
54.4
1.7
2.1
55.8
1.6
1.9
22.2

349

Selected World Development Indicators 2011

Table 3

Millennium Development Goals: Eradicating poverty and improving lives (continued)

Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger

Achieve
universal
primary
education

Promote
gender
equality

Reduce
child
mortality

Improve
maternal
health

Combat HIV/AIDS
and other diseases

Share of
Prevalence
Ratio of
Incidence
poorest
of child
girls to boys
Maternal
HIV
of
quintile
Vulnerable malnutrition
enrollments
Under-fi ve mortality prevalence tuberculosis
in national employment
% of
Primary
in primary
mortality
rate per
% of
per
consumption
% of
children
completion and secondary rate per
100,000
population
100,000
or income % employment under age 5
rate %
school %
1,000
live births ages 15–49
people
1995–2008 b

Moldova
Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar
Nepal
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Norway
Pakistan
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Romania
Russian Federation
Rwanda
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Slovak Republic
Somalia
South Africa
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Sweden
Switzerland
Syrian Arab Republic
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand
Togo
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
United States
Uruguay
Uzbekistan
Venezuela, RB
Vietnam
West Bank and Gaza
Yemen, Rep.
Zambia
Zimbabwe
World
Low income
Middle income
Lower middle income
Upper middle income
Low and middle income
East Asia & Pacific
Europe & Central Asia
Latin America &
the Caribbean
Middle East & North Africa
South Asia
Sub-Saharan Africa
High income

c

6.7
6.5c
5.4c
..
6.1c
7.6e
6.4e
3.8e
5.9c
5.1c
9.6e
9.1c
2.5e
4.5c
3.4e
3.6e
5.6c
7.3c
5.8e
7.9c
5.6c
5.4c
..
6.2c
9.1c, i
6.1c
5.0e
8.8e
..
3.1c
7.0e
6.8c
..
9.1e
7.6e
..
7.8c
7.3c
6.1c
5.4c
5.9c
5.4c
6.0c
6.1c
9.4c
..
6.1e
5.4e
4.3e
7.1c
4.9e
7.1c
..
7.2c
3.6c
4.6c

2008

2000–08 b

2008

Develop
a global
Ensure environmental partnership for
sustainability
development
Carbon
dioxide
emissions
per capita
metric
tons

Access to
improved
sanitation
facilities
% of
population

Internet
users
per 100
people a

2008

2009

2008

2007

2008

2007

2008

2008

32
51
..
..
..
9
12
45
..
..
6
62
28
..
47
40 f
45
19
19
31
6
..
..
..
23
..
10
11f
..
3
12
41f
..
7
10
..
..
88 f
53
..
..
35
..
..
..
..
11
..
25
..
30
..
36
..
..
..
..w
..
..
..
26
..
..
19

3.2
9.9
21.2
29.6
38.8
..
..
4.3
39.9
27.2
..
31.3
..
18.1
..
5.4
26.2
..
..
3.5
..
18.0
5.3
14.5
1.8
28.3
3.3
..
32.8
..
..
21.1
31.7
..
..
10.0
14.9
16.7
7.0
22.3
3.3
3.5
..
16.4
4.1
..
..
1.3
6.0
4.4
..
20.2
2.2
43.1
14.9
14.0
22.4w
28.1
22.2
25.0
..
23.5
11.9
..

91
81
59
99
..
..
..
75
40g
..
98
60
102
..
95
101
92
96
..
96
95
54
95
56
100
88
..
96
..
86
107
98
57g
94
94
114
98
83
87
61
93
93
..
56
99
105
..
95
104
95
95
..
82
61
93
..
88w
63
92
90
100
87
99
96

102
88
87
99
..
98
103
102
74
85
99
80
101
..
99
99
102
99
101
99
98
100
91
96
102
84
..
100
53
100
103
..
89g
99
97
97
91
..
103
75
103
93
..
99
99
101
101
100
98
98
102
..
104
..
95
97
96w
91
97
95
101
96
102
97

17
38
142
71
48
4
6
26
160
138
3
87
23
68
23
21
33
7
4
12
12
111
21
93
7
192
3
7
180
62
4
15
108
3
4
16
61
108
14
98
21
20
45
128
15
7
6
8
13
36
18
24
30
66
141
90
61w
118
51
57
22
66
26
21

32
110
550
240
380
9
14
100
820
840
7
260
71
250
95
98
94
6
7
27
39
540
24
410
8
970
9
6
1,200
410
6
39
750
5
10
46
64
790
48
350
60
23
77
430
26
10
12
24
27
30
68
56
..
210
470
790
260w
580
200
230
82
290
89
32

0.4
0.1
12.5
0.7
0.5
0.2
0.1
0.2
0.8
3.1
0.1
0.1
1.0
1.5
0.6
0.5
..
0.1
0.5
0.1
1.1
2.8
..
1.0
0.1
1.7
0.2
<0.1
0.5
18.1
0.5
..
1.4
0.1
0.6
..
0.3
6.2
1.4
3.3
0.1
..
<0.1
5.4
1.6
..
0.2
0.6
0.6
0.1
..
0.5
..
..
15.2
15.3
0.8w
2.3
0.6
0.4
1.5
0.9
0.2
0.6

170
120
420
400
160
7
8
46
180
300
6
230
47
250
47
120
280
25
30
130
110
390
19
280
18
610
39
12
390
960
17
66
120
6
5
22
200
190
140
440
24
30
68
310
100
6
12
5
22
130
33
200
19
88
470
760
140w
300
140
150
100
160
140
94

1.3
1.5
0.1
0.3
0.1
10.6
7.7
0.8
0.1
0.6
9.1
1.0
2.2
0.5
0.7
1.5
0.8
8.3
5.5
4.4
10.8
0.1
16.6
0.5
..j
0.2
11.8
6.8
0.1
9.0
8.0
0.6
0.3
5.4
5.0
3.5
1.1
0.1
4.1
0.2
2.3
4.0
9.2
0.1
6.8
31.0
8.8
19.3
1.9
4.3
6.0
1.3
0.6
1.0
0.2
0.8
4.6w
0.3
3.3
2.8
5.3
2.9
4.0
7.2

79
69
17
81
31
100
..
52
9
32
100
45
69
45
70
68
76
90
100
72
87
54
..
51
92
13
100
100
23
77
100
91
34
100
100
96
94
24
96
12
85
90
98
48
95
97
100
100
100
100
..
75
89
52
49
44
61w
35
57
50
84
54
59
89

23.4
33.0
1.6
0.2
1.7
87.0
71.4
3.3
0.5
15.9
82.5
11.1
27.5
1.8
14.3
24.7
6.2
49.0
42.1
28.8
31.9
3.1
31.3
8.4
44.9
0.3
69.6
66.0
1.1
8.6
55.4
5.8
10.2
87.7
75.9
17.3
8.8
1.2
23.9
5.4
27.1
34.4
1.5
7.9
10.5
65.2
76.0
75.8
40.2
9.0
25.7
24.2
9.0
1.6
5.5
11.4
23.9w
2.3
17.0
13.7
29.9
15.0
19.4
26.4

32
37
..
..
12

4.5
12.2
41.0
25.2
..

101
95
79
64
98

102
96
91
88
99

23
33
71
130
7

86
88
290
650
15

0.5
0.1
0.3
5.0
0.3

47
44
180
350
15

2.7
3.7
1.2
0.8
12.5

79
84
36
31
99

29.0
18.9
4.7
6.5
68.3

Note: For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
a. Data are from the International Telecommunication Union's (ITU) World Telecommunication Development Report database. Please cite ITU for third-party use of these data. b. Data are
for the most recent year available. c. Refers to expenditure shares by percentiles of population, ranked by per capita expenditure. d. Urban data. e. Refers to income shares by percentiles of
population, ranked by per capita income. f. Limited coverage. g. Data are for 2009. h. Includes Hong Kong SAR, China. i. Includes Montenegro. j. Includes Kosovo and Montenegro. k. Includes
emissions not allocated to specific countries.

350

Table 4

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

Economic activity
Gross domestic
product
Average
annual
% growth

Afghanistan
Albania
Algeria
Angola
Argentina
Armenia
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bangladesh
Belarus
Belgium
Benin
Bolivia
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Brazil
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Central African Republic
Chad
Chile
China
Hong Kong SAR, China
Colombia
Congo, Dem. Rep.
Congo, Rep.
Costa Rica
Côte d´Ivoire
Croatia
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Egypt, Arab Rep.
El Salvador
Eritrea
Ethiopia
Finland
France
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Guatemala
Guinea
Haiti
Honduras
Hungary
India
Indonesia
Iran, Islamic Rep.
Iraq
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Korea, Rep.
Kyrgyz Republic
Lao PDR
Lebanon
Liberia
Libya
Lithuania
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Mali
Mauritania

Household
General
fi nal
government fi nal
Gross
consumption
consumption
capital
expenditure
expenditure
formation

Agricultural
productivity
Agricultural value
added per worker
2000 $

External
balance of
goods and
services

Value added as % of GDP
Agriculture

Industry

Services

% of GDP

% of GDP

% of GDP

2009

2000–09

1990–92

2005–07

2009

2009

2009

2009

2009

2009

10,624
11,834
140,577
69,067
308,741
8,714
924,843
384,908
43,019
89,378
48,984
468,552
6,656
17,340
17,122
1,571,979
47,100
8,141
1,325
10,028
21,837
1,336,067
2,006
6,680
163,670
4,984,731
215,355
230,844
10,779
8,695
29,225
23,042
63,034
190,274
309,596
46,598
57,249
188,334
22,174
1,654
28,537
237,512
2,649,390
10,737
3,346,702
15,619
329,924
36,788
4,103
6,693
14,632
128,964
1,310,171
540,277
331,015
65,837
227,193
194,790
2,112,780
5,067,526
22,788
109,155
30,200
832,512
4,578
5,939
34,450
876
62,360
37,206
9,052
4,975
191,601
8,996
3,031

..
5.3
4.0
13.1
5.4
10.5
3.3
2.0
17.9
5.9
8.3
1.7
4.0
4.1
5.0
3.6
5.3
5.4
3.0
9.0
3.4
2.5
0.8
10.4
4.1
10.9
5.2
4.7
5.2
4.0
5.1
0.8
3.9
4.1
1.2
5.5
5.0
4.9
2.6
1.3
8.5
2.5
1.5
7.4
0.9
5.6
3.6
3.8
2.5
0.7
4.9
2.9
7.8
5.3
5.4
–0.3
4.0
3.5
0.5
1.1
7.1
8.8
4.4
4.2
4.6
6.9
4.5
0.0
5.4
6.3
3.9
4.9
5.1
5.3
4.7

..
837
1,823
176
6,919
1,607a
20,676
13,607
1,000a
255
2,042a
..
429
703
..
1,611
2,686
126
117
..
409
28,541
322
209
3,618
269
..
3,342
209
..
3,158
652
5,545a
3,256
15,190
2,055
1,801
1,826
1,774
..
..
19,011
22,126
2,359a
13,863
352
7,668
2,304
156
..
1,227
3,943
359
519
2,042
..
..
..
11,714
20,350
2,348
1,776a
379
5,804
684a
382
..
..
..
..
210
86
398
405
671

..
1,663
2,232
222
11,192
4,510
30,830
20,744
1,198
387
4,017
35,974
661
732
10,352
3,315
8,015
182
70
366
703
46,138
404
..
6,160
459
..
3,001
162
..
5,132
875
14,804
5,945
34,613
3,829
1,879
2,758
2,404
118
187
35,783
47,679
1,871
27,015
388
8,383
2,736
311
..
1,842
8,136
530
657
2,931
..
15,308
..
26,800
41,492
2,440
1,730
367
14,501
1,018
495
31,410
..
..
4,635
182
126
583
515
414

32
21
12
10
10
21
3
2
8
19
10
1
..
12
9
7
6
33
..
35
19
..
56
24
4
10
0
9
43
5
7
25
7
2
1
6
8
11
14
24
47
3
2
10
1
33
3
11
11
..
13
4
17
14
10
..
2
..
2
1
3
5
28
3
29
35
5
61
2
4
24
36
9
37
13

26
20
55
54
32
35
29
31
60
29
45
23
..
29
27
27
30
22
..
24
31
..
15
36
43
46
8
36
24
68
28
25
29
37
26
30
49
35
27
19
14
33
20
21
30
25
20
29
33
..
31
29
28
47
44
..
34
..
27
29
34
40
20
36
19
28
18
17
78
31
18
21
55
24
47

42
59
34
36
58
45
68
67
32
53
45
76
..
58
64
66
64
44
..
41
50
..
30
40
53
43
92
55
33
27
65
50
64
60
73
64
43
53
59
56
39
64
78
69
69
42
77
59
57
..
55
66
55
39
45
..
64
..
71
69
63
54
52
61
51
37
78
22
20
64
59
44
36
39
41

98
84
41
..
59
81
57
53
37
80
57
54
..
74
85
64
73
75
91
83
72
55
93
69
60
34
60
66
74
40
80
72
58
51
49
94
63
82
92
86
88
52
57
82
56
74
71
89
84
..
83
67
58
56
45
..
47
57
59
56
86
42
73
55
86
66
89
202
23
65
85
68
54
77
61

10
10
14
..
13
11
17
18
14
5
15
23
..
11
20
20
8
22
29
3
9
19
4
7
12
11
8
9
8
14
7
9
18
22
27
6
14
7
11
31
10
22
23
15
18
19
17
6
5
..
21
9
12
3
11
..
16
24
20
18
17
11
17
15
23
8
15
19
9
19
4
13
13
10
20

28
29
41
17
23
31
28
23
22
24
38
24
25
18
20
17
26
18
16
21
18
23
11
18
19
45
20
23
30
26
17
11
28
22
22
8
27
19
13
11
20
22
22
29
19
30
21
15
14
29
34
22
35
28
33
..
26
16
21
24
18
39
21
31
22
37
19
20
28
27
34
22
24
22
26

% of GDP
2009

–36
–25
4
9
4
–24
–2
5
28
–10
–8
–1
–14
–3
–25
0
–8
–15
–36
–8
–6
2
–8
6
7
5
11
2
–12
21
–3
8
–4
6
2
–8
–4
–8
–16
–28
–18
4
–2
–23
6
–25
–9
–11
–3
–29
–30
1
–5
–10
11
..
11
2
0
2
–22
8
–11
–1
–31
–12
–23
–142
40
0
–24
–3
17
–9
–7

GDP
implicit
defl ator
average
Annual
% growth
2000–09

6.9
3.4
8.6
40.5
12.9
4.5
4.0
1.7
9.9
5.2
23.3
2.1
3.4
6.8
4.0
8.1
5.8
2.5
10.4
4.8
1.9
2.3
2.7
5.3
6.3
4.3
–1.7
6.7
27.2
6.1
10.2
3.4
3.9
2.2
2.3
13.7
9.1
8.3
3.8
18.0
10.8
1.0
2.1
7.0
1.1
18.3
3.1
5.2
20.1
15.2
6.6
4.9
5.3
11.1
16.4
11.6
2.0
1.4
2.5
–1.1
4.8
14.6
6.3
2.2
8.3
8.9
2.6
10.3
17.9
4.0
11.3
17.7
3.9
4.5
10.6

351

Selected World Development Indicators 2011

Table 4

Economic activity (continued)
Gross domestic
product
Average
annual
% growth
2009

Mexico
Moldova
Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar
Nepal
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Norway
Pakistan
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Romania
Russian Federation
Rwanda
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Slovak Republic
Somalia
South Africa
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Sweden
Switzerland
Syrian Arab Republic
Tajikistan
Tanzaniab
Thailand
Togo
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
United States
Uruguay
Uzbekistan
Venezuela, RB
Vietnam
West Bank and Gaza
Yemen, Rep.
Zambia
Zimbabwe
World
Low income
Middle income
Lower middle income
Upper middle income
Low and middle income
East Asia & Pacific
Europe & Central Asia
Latin America &
the Caribbean
Middle East &
North Africa
South Asia
Sub-Saharan Africa
High income

Household
General
fi nal
government fi nal
Gross
consumption
consumption
capital
expenditure
expenditure
formation

Agricultural
productivity
Agricultural value
added per worker
2000 $
2005–07

External
balance of
goods and
services

Value added as % of GDP
Agriculture

Industry

Services

% of GDP

% of GDP

% of GDP

2009

2009

2009

2009

2009

2009

2000–09

1990–92

874,902
5,405
90,859
9,790
..
12,531
792,128
125,160
6,297
5,384
168,994
381,766
166,545
24,711
7,893
15,015
126,734
160,476
430,076
227,676
161,110
1,230,726
5,064
369,179
13,059
42,594
1,942
182,232
87,642
..
285,983
1,460,250
41,979
54,677
406,072
500,260
52,177
4,978
21,623
263,856
2,855
39,561
617,099
19,947
15,736
113,545
261,348
2,174,530
14,256,300
36,093
32,817
326,498
91,854
..
26,365
12,748
..
58,228,178 t
419,652
16,095,002
8,805,089
7,280,007
16,526,605
6,345,309
2,585,329

2.2
5.6
5.0
7.9
..
3.7
1.7
2.9
3.2
4.4
6.4
2.1
5.3
6.9
3.4
3.4
6.0
4.9
4.4
0.7
5.6
5.9
6.8
3.7
4.2
5.0
9.5
6.5
5.8
..
4.1
2.8
5.5
7.3
2.3
2.0
4.4
8.2
6.8
4.6
2.5
4.9
4.9
13.9
7.5
5.6
7.0
1.9
2.1
4.1
6.9
4.9
7.6
–0.9
3.9
5.4
–5.7
2.9 w
5.5
6.4
8.5
4.3
6.4
9.4
5.8

2,274
1,349a
1,788
117
..
245
24,752
19,148
..
242
..
19,077
765
2,341
555
1,648
879
905
1,605
4,642
2,129
1,917a
193
8,476
251
..
..
22,695
..
..
2,149
9,583
697
526
22,319
19,369
2,778
370a
261
480
345
2,975
2,198
1,272a
175
1,232a
10,414
21,236
20,353
6,278
1,427a
4,584
229
..
412
189
271
801w
244
493
368
2,132
463
307
2,012

3,022
1,276
2,306
174
..
241
39,634
25,946
2,334
..
..
38,445
890
4,011
643
2,136
1,390
1,148
2,629
6,135
6,179
2,913
215
17,419
223
..
..
50,828
8,149
..
3,149
17,939
823
844
41,905
22,884
4,479
501
324
654
394
3,424
3,223
2,087
191
2,010
29,465
27,450
45,285
9,370
2,231
7,386
335
..
..
227
239
1,035 w
278
743
569
3,232
674
491
2,806

3,976,530

3.7

2,213

3,274

6

1,059,429
1,634,623
926,544
41,718,726

4.7
7.3
5.1
2.0

1,846
372
305
13,758

2,824
534
322
23,429

11
18
13
2

4
11
20
29
..
34
2
..
20
..
33
1
21
6
36
24
7
15
5
2
7
5
39
2
16
13
51
0
3
..
3
3
14
27
2
1
21
22
45
12
..
8
9
12
38
10
2
1
1
10
21
..
22
..
..
21
..
3w
27
10
13
6
10
11
7

38
10
27
24
..
16
25
..
30
..
41
46
24
17
45
19
36
33
31
24
26
37
13
69
21
29
22
26
35
..
31
29
28
36
27
27
34
24
17
44
..
30
28
54
30
52
61
24
21
26
32
..
39
..
..
58
..
28 w
26
36
39
33
36
46
33

% of GDP

GDP
implicit
defl ator
average
Annual
% growth

2009

2000–09

–2
–36
–14
–20
..
–22
8
–1
–35
..
4
19
–10
–10
1
–1
3
–6
–2
–10
–7
11
–18
10
–20
–16
–13
18
–4
..
–1
–6
–8
0
7
9
–2
–43
–6
3
–21
–3
–1
30
–19
–1
23
–3
–5
0
7
3
–7
..
..
–1
..
0w
–15
0
–1
1
0
4
3

7.8
11.0
2.0
7.9
..
6.6
2.1
2.6
8.3
3.0
15.3
4.6
8.6
2.4
6.5
10.5
3.4
5.1
2.7
2.8
15.9
15.9
10.5
7.5
3.0
16.4
9.5
1.2
3.4
..
7.2
3.7
10.7
10.0
2.0
1.1
8.0
20.9
9.5
3.2
1.4
3.2
15.3
13.0
5.7
16.4
10.2
2.6
2.9
7.7
24.7
25.0
8.2
3.4
13.0
16.5
232.0

58
79
53
47
..
50
73
..
50
..
27
53
55
77
20
57
56
53
64
74
67
58
48
28
63
58
27
74
63
..
66
68
58
37
71
71
45
54
37
44
..
62
63
34
32
38
38
76
77
64
47
..
39
..
..
21
..
69 w
47
54
47
61
54
43
59

65
98
63
86
..
81
46
58
90
..
..
39
79
73
71
74
64
83
64
67
61
49
86
39
81
78
84
43
47
..
61
57
67
58
47
59
72
93
73
56
..
63
72
49
83
65
46
64
71
68
56
60
63
..
..
74
..
61 w
81
57
50
63
57
41
60

13
20
15
13
..
11
25
19
13
..
..
19
11
11
11
9
8
11
16
21
15
18
10
26
10
21
14
10
20
..
21
19
16
17
26
11
14
28
16
12
9
13
15
10
12
18
10
22
16
9
16
14
6
..
..
8
..
17 w
9
13
11
16
13
11
16

25
19
36
22
..
30
21
24
32
..
..
23
20
26
20
18
25
14
20
22
31
23
23
25
29
19
15
29
38
..
19
30
25
25
19
22
16
22
17
29
..
27
15
11
24
19
20
17
18
23
20
22
38
..
..
20
..
22 w
24
28
36
21
28
40
21

32

62

66

15

20

–1

43
28
30
26

46
55
57
73

55
62
66
62

13
12
17
18

28
32
21
21

5
–6
–4
0

Note: For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified. a. Data for all three years are not available. b. Data refer to
mainland Tanzania only.

352

Table 5

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

Trade, aid, and finance

Merchandise trade

Afghanistan
Albania
Algeria
Angola
Argentina
Armenia
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bangladesh
Belarus
Belgium
Benin
Bolivia
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Brazil
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Central African Republic
Chad
Chile
China
Hong Kong SAR, China
Colombia
Congo, Dem. Rep.
Congo, Rep.
Costa Rica
Côte d´Ivoire
Croatia
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Egypt, Arab Rep.
El Salvador
Eritrea
Ethiopia
Finland
France
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Guatemala
Guinea
Haiti
Honduras
Hungary
India
Indonesia
Iran, Islamic Rep.
Iraq
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Korea, Rep.
Kyrgyz Republic
Lao PDR
Lebanon
Liberia
Libya
Lithuania
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Mali
Mauritania
Mexico
Moldova

Manufactured
exports

Hightechnology
exports

Current
account
balance

Foreign
Net
direct
offi cial
investment development
net infl ows assistancea

Exports
$
millions

Imports
$
millions

% of total
merchandise
exports

% of
manufactured
exports

$
millions

$
millions

2009

2009

2009

2008

2009

2009

..
4
1
..
9
2
12
11
1
1
2
8
0
4
4
12
7
..
8
..
3
15
..
..
6
29
22
4
..
..
39
16
9
14
16
8
5
1
4
..
6
21
20
3
14
1
10
4
0
..
1
24
6
11
6
0
26
16
7
18
1
22
5
33
2
..
0
..
..
11
1
2
40
3
..
19
4

..
–1,875
..
6,408
8,635
–1,326
–47,786
8,731
10,178
3,345
–6,402
1,298
–535
2,015
–2,764
–24,302
–4,340
..
–212
–1,051
–1,137
–22,612
..
..
4,217
426,107
18,278
–5,146
..
–2,181
–2,729
1,670
–3,154
–2,147
12,490
–4,437
1,120
–3,349
–1,596
..
–1,806
3,444
–51,857
–1,257
168,019
–1,198
–37,043
–217
–434
–232
–1,977
409
–36,088
10,746
..
15,519
–6,499
7,189
–66,199
142,194
–1,265
–3,405
–1,978
42,668
–631
107
–7,555
–1,187
35,702
1,492
..
..
38,914
–1,066
..
–5,238
–439

530
1,088
43,689
39,000
55,750
698
154,043
137,217
21,570
15,081
21,282
369,760
1,000
4,850
3,953
152,995
16,435
800
65
4,550
3,100
315,552
110
2,700
53,024
1,201,534
329,739g
32,853
3,200
5,700
8,777
9,300
10,474
113,319
93,102
5,460
13,724
21,150
3,797
15
1,490
62,586
474,972
1,135
1,120,927
5,530
19,886
7,360
980
549
5,235
83,965
155,249
119,776
78,050
39,500
114,662
47,670
404,653
580,845
6,366
43,189
4,335
363,534
1,439
1,070
4,187
165
35,300
16,288
1,150
960
157,433
2,100
1,360
229,707
1,298

4,200
4,548
39,103
17,000
38,771
3,304
165,471
143,527
6,469
21,833
28,564
351,035
1,800
4,410
8,811
133,609
23,300
1,900
410
5,390
3,800
330,268
300
2,100
42,378
1,005,688
352,688
32,898
3,300
2,700
11,395
6,500
21,203
104,982
82,893
12,230
15,093
44,946
7,255
515
7,310
60,037
551,092
4,378
931,434
8,140
59,398
11,521
1,400
2,140
7,830
77,550
243,636
91,720
51,450
37,000
61,871
49,150
410,385
550,679
14,075
28,374
9,670
323,085
3,037
1,430
16,574
640
10,150
18,193
2,900
1,600
123,832
2,600
1,410
241,515
3,278

35
70
2
..
33
33
19
81
3
88
48
77d
..
6
61
39
53
..
18
96
..
50
..
..
12
94
79g
28
..
..
47
12
67
87
67
70
9
37
72
..
9
81
79
55
82
19
54
43
32
..
35
80
67
41
..
0
86
94
83
89
73
14
37
87
34
..
71
..
..
55
57
10
70
22
0
76
23

185
978
2,847
2,205
4,009
777
47,281
7,287
473
674
1,884
34,087
93
423
235
25,949
4,489
171
10
530
340
19,898
42
462
12,702
78,193
48,449
7,260
951
2,083
1,347
381
2,906
2,666
7,712
2,067
316
6,712
431
0
94
2,570
59,989
764
35,841
1,685
3,340
566
141
38
500
–5,858
34,577
4,877
3,016
1,070
25,233
3,894
28,976
11,834
2,382
12,601
141
1,506
189
190
4,804
378
2,674
307
1,384
60
1,609
109
–38
11,418
86

External debt

Domestic
credit
provided
by banking
sector

Net
migration

$
per capita

Total
$
millions

Present
value
% of GNIb

% of GDP

thousands

2008

2008

2008

2009

2005–10 c

168
123
9
20
3
98
..
..
27
13
11
..
74
65
128
2
..
66
63
51
27
..
59
38
4
1
..
22
26
129
15
30
90
..
..
15
17
17
38
29
41
..
..
206
..
55
..
39
32
92
77
..
2
5
1
322
..
..
..
..
128
21
35
..
68
80
257
330
10
..
44
61
6
76
97
1
82

2,200
3,188
5,476
15,130
128,285
3,418
..
..
4,309
23,644
12,299
..
986
5,537
8,316
255,614
38,045
1,681
1,445
4,215
2,794
..
949
1,749
64,277
378,245
..
46,887
12,199
5,485
8,812
12,561
..
..
..
10,484
16,851
32,616
10,110
962
2,882
..
..
3,380
..
4,970
..
15,889
3,092
1,935
3,430
..
230,611
150,851
13,937
..
..
..
..
..
6,577
107,595
7,441
..
2,464
4,944
24,395
3,484
..
31,719
2,086
963
66,182
2,190
1,960
203,984
3,787

4
21
3
24
48
27
..
..
12
20
24
..
10e
14e
44
19
91
14e
80e
42
4e
..
41e
19e
41
10
..
23
100e
74e
33
76e
..
..
..
24
34
20
47
38e
8e
..
..
24
..
20e
..
42
49e
17e
12e
..
18
35
4
..
..
..
..
..
32
106
19
..
42e
83
95
340e
..
78
20e
9e
35
11e
41e
20
67

3
67
–12
32
27
17
144
..
17
59
31
..
19
55
58
118
67
15
35
16
7
178
17
8
116
145
125
43
9
–18
54
23
75
58
211
39
20
78
50
113
37
..
..
33
..
..
..
40
..
26
56
81
73
37
45
–25
..
78
..
379
109
34
40
112
14
10
165
145
–63
64
11
30
116
11
..
46
40

1,000
–75
–140
80
30
–75
500
160
–50
–570
0
200
50
–100
–10
–229
–50
–65
323
–5
–19
1,050
5
–75
30
–1,731f
113
–120
–100
–50
30
–145
10
226
30
–140
–350
–340
–280
55
–300
55
500
–250
550
–51
150
–200
–300
–140
–100
75
–1,000
–730
–500
–577
200
85
1,650
150
250
–100
–189
–30
–75
–75
–13
248
20
–100
–5
–20
130
–202
10
–2,430
–172

353

Selected World Development Indicators 2011

Table 5

Trade, aid, and finance (continued)

Merchandise trade

Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar
Nepal
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Norway
Pakistan
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Romania
Russian Federation
Rwanda
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Slovak Republic
Somalia
South Africa
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Sweden
Switzerland
Syrian Arab Republic
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand
Togo
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
United States
Uruguay
Uzbekistan
Venezuela, RB
Vietnam
West Bank and Gaza
Yemen, Rep.
Zambia
Zimbabwe
World
Low income
Middle income
Lower middle income
Upper middle income
Low and middle income
East Asia & Pacific
Europe & Central Asia
Latin America &
the Caribbean
Middle East &
North Africa
South Asia
Sub-Saharan Africa
High income

Manufactured
exports

Hightechnology
exports

Current
account
balance

Foreign
Net
direct
offi cial
investment development
net infl ows assistancea

Exports
$
millions

Imports
$
millions

% of total
merchandise
exports

% of
manufactured
exports

$
millions

$
millions

2009

2009

2009

2008

2009

2009

13,848
1,950
6,620
680
498,648
24,936
1,391
900
52,500
120,710
17,695
885
4,530
3,191
26,885
38,335
134,452
43,192
40,500
303,978
205
188,500
2,180
8,345
205
269,832g
55,933
..
62,627
218,027
7,360
7,800
130,742
172,742
10,400
1,010
2,970
152,498
780
14,449
102,139
6,595
3,560
39,782
175,000
350,728
1,056,895
5,386
9,850
57,595
56,574
..
9,270
4,238
1,700
12,465,631t
76,234
3,708,999
2,090,954
1,617,007
3,785,241
1,747,818
650,221

32,804
3,750
4,600
3,550
445,802
25,583
3,454
1,550
39,000
68,506
31,720
7,785
3,480
6,940
21,706
45,802
146,626
69,238
54,075
191,868
1,750
92,200
5,210
15,582
505
245,785
55,186
..
71,950
290,240
9,883
8,200
118,758
155,595
16,300
2,569
6,347
133,801
1,400
19,100
140,869
6,750
4,410
45,487
140,000
479,890
1,603,768
6,907
7,615
42,220
68,936
..
9,300
3,791
2,900
12,553,525t
124,812
3,509,321
2,027,292
1,476,640
3,634,105
1,492,279
624,980

–4,570
–1,171
..
–10
42,819
–3,694
–1,513
–351
22,889
53,531
–15,663
–4
..
–196
247
8,552
–7,207
–23,380
–7,139
48,971
–379
22,765
–1,311
–2,413
–193
27,181
–2,810
..
–11,295
–78,683
–215
–1,314
30,232
23,636
66
–180
–2,307
20,284
–222
–1,711
–13,961
..
–875
–1,801
..
–28,690
–419,870
259
..
8,561
–10,706
535
–1,251
–1,046
..

1,333
881
323
38
31,938
470
434
739
5,787
6,870
2,387
1,773
424
274
4,760
1,948
11,546
2,808
6,310
37,134
119
10,499
208
1,921
74
16,809
–31
108
5,628
6,451
404
2,923
10,708
24,803
1,434
16
645
5,956
50
1,595
7,955
1,355
604
4,816
..
24,799
134,710
1,139
750
–3,105
7,600
52
129
699
60
1,116,269s
12,033
346,573
177,941
168,632
358,605
102,488
85,053

65
12
..
67
55
22
35
7
5
20
76
10
..
11
16
86
80
72
79
17
4
9
41
66
..
70 g
86
..
47h
73
67
0
76
90
35
..
25
75
62
75
80
..
27
70
4
72
67
26
..
67
55
..
2
8
34
70w
50
64
78
53
64
80
34

9
4
..
..
22
9
4
8
0
20
2
0
..
9
2
66
5
8
7
7
7
1
5
..
..
51
5
..
5
5
2
0
16
23
1
..
1
25
0
5
2
..
1
3
3
19
27
4
..
3
9
..
0
2
3
17w
3
17
22
9
16
28
6

External debt

$
per capita

Total
$
millions

Present
value
% of GNIb

2008

2008

2008

39
89
11
25
..
..
131
41
9
..
9
8
46
21
16
1
..
..
..
..
96
–5
87
142
66
..
..
85
23
..
36
58
..
..
7
43
55
–9
51
46
27
4
52
13
..
..
..
10
7
2
30
659
13
86
49
19w
45
11
11
13
23
5
20

20,825
3,432
7,210
3,685
..
..
3,558
966
11,221
..
49,337
10,722
1,418
4,163
28,555
64,856
218,022
..
104,943
402,453
679
..
2,861
30,918
389
..
..
2,949
41,943
..
15,154
19,633
..
..
..
1,466
5,938
64,798
1,573
20,776
277,277
638
2,249
92,479
..
..
..
11,049
3,995
50,229
26,158
..
6,258
2,986
5,199
..s
129,218
3,329,192
1,342,220
1,986,972
3,458,409
771,628
1,138,859

24
15e
35
21
..
..
32e
13e
6
..
24
54
21
29
28
37
46
..
57
30
8e
..
16e
70
10e
..
..
..
16
..
35
78e
..
..
..
23
14e, i
31
51e
58
40
5
10e
63
..
..
..
40
15
21
29
..
18
6e
177

Domestic
credit
provided
by banking
sector

Net
migration

% of GDP

thousands

2009

2005–10 c

99
14
..
53
..
156
71
12
27
..
46
85
26
21
19
46
60
..
41
26
..
1
26
39
11
94
54
..
215
..
43
16
133
181
37
28
17
146
30
75
53
..
11
82
115
229
272
34
..
20
95
..
19
19
..
185 w
32
78
127
61
77
145
38

–425
–20
–500
–100
100
50
–200
–28
–300
135
–1,416
11
0
–40
–625
–900
–120
200
–200
250
15
150
–100
0
60
500
20
–250
700
1,750
–300
135
150
100
800
–200
–300
300
–5
–20
–44
–25
–135
–80
343
948
5,052
–50
–400
40
–200
–10
–135
–85
–700
..js
–2,737
–13,203
–9,231
–3,972
–15,941
–3,781
–1,671

676,338

669,803

60

12

73,902

16

894,367

72

–5,214

273,042
197,030
241,607
8,682,510

290,458
316,340
248,900
8,926,538

..
68
33
72

4
5
3
18

28,095
38,311
30,756
757,664

73
8
49
0

131,545
326,311
195,699
..

36
73
78
245

–1,089
–2,376
–1,810
15,894

Note: For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
a. The distinction between official aid, for countries on the Part II list of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Development Assistance Committee (DAC),
and official development assistance was dropped in 2005. Regional aggregates include data for economies not listed in the table. World and income group totals include aid not allocated by
country or region. b. The numerator refers to 2008, whereas the denominator is a three-year average of 2006–08 data. c. Total for the five-year period. d. Includes Luxembourg. e. Data are from
debt sustainability analysis for low-income countries. f. Includes Taiwan, China. g. Includes reexports. h. Data on total exports and imports refer to South Africa only. Data on export commodity
shares refer to the South African Customs Union (Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, and South Africa). i. GNI refers to mainland Tanzania only. j. World total computed by the UN sums to zero, but
because the aggregates shown here refer to World Bank definitions, regional and income group totals do not equal zero.

354

Table 6

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

Key indicators for other economies

Population

American Samoa
Andorra
Antigua and Barbuda
Aruba
Bahamas, The
Bahrain
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bhutan
Botswana
Brunei Darussalam
Cape Verde
Cayman Islands
Channel Islands
Comoros
Cuba
Cyprus
Djibouti
Dominica
Equatorial Guinea
Estonia
Faeroe Islands
Fiji
French Polynesia
Gabon
Gambia, The
Gibraltar
Greenland
Grenada
Guam
Guinea-Bissau
Guyana
Iceland
Isle of Man
Jamaica
Kiribati
Korea, Dem. Rep.
Kosovo
Kuwait
Latvia
Lesotho
Liechtenstein
Luxembourg
Macao SAR, China
Macedonia, FYR
Maldives
Malta
Marshall Islands
Mauritius
Mayotte
Micronesia, Fed. Sts.
Monaco
Mongolia
Montenegro
Namibia
Netherlands Antilles
New Caledonia
Northern Mariana Islands
Oman
Palau
Puerto Rico
Qatar
Samoa
San Marino

Thousands
2009

Average
annual
%
growth
2000–09

Density
people
per
sq. km.
2008

67
85
88
107
342
791
256
333
64
697
1,950
400
506
55
150
659
11,204
871
864
74
676
1,340
49
849
269
1,475
1,705
31
56
104
178
1,611
762
319
80
2,700
98
23,906
1,805
2,795
2,255
2,067
36
498
538
2,042
309
415
61
1,275
197
111
33
2,671
624
2,171
198
250
87
2,845
20
3,967
1,409
179
31

1.7
3.3d
1.4
1.8
1.3
2.2
0.2
3.2
0.4
2.4
1.4
2.0
1.6
3.5
0.2
2.2
0.1
1.1
1.9
0.3
2.7
–0.2
0.7
0.6
1.5
2.0
3.0
0.8
0.0h
0.3
1.5
2.3
0.1
1.4
0.6
0.5
1.7
0.5
0.7
2.7
–0.6
1.0
1.0
1.5
2.2
0.2
1.4
0.7
1.9
0.8
2.9j
0.4
0.3
1.2
–0.6
1.9
1.0
1.8
2.6
1.9
0.7
0.4
9.2
0.1
1.3k

331
178
197
586
34
1,092
593
14
1,284
18
3
74
124
209
787
346
102
93
37
98
24
32
35
46
73
6
166
3,103
0h
305
325
56
4
3
141
248
119
198
165
153
36
68
223
189
18,659
80
1,017
1,287
331
625
511
158
16,358
2
46
3
244
13
186
9
44
446
111
63
517

Population
age
composition

Gross national income
(GNI) a

%
ages 0–14
2009

$
millions
2009

$
per
capita
2009

..
..
..
19
26
26
17
35
..
31
33
27
36
..
16
38
18
18
36
..
41
15
..
31
26
36
42
..
..
28
28
43
30
21
..
29
..
22
..
23
14
39
..
18
13
18
28
16
..
23
39
37
..
26
19
37
21
26
..
31
..
20
16
39
..

..
3,447
1,058
..
7,136
19,712
..
1,205
..
1,406
12,159
10,211
1,520
..
10,242
571
..
21,366 g
1,106
359
8,398
18,846
..
3,356
..
10,869
743
..
1,857
577
..
826
1,109
13,789
3,972
13,481
185
..
5,842
116,984
27,936
2,139
4,034
37,056
18,142
8,983
1,197
6,826
186
9,236
..
246
6,670
4,361
4,089
9,323
..
..
..
49,833
182
..
..
508
1,572

..c
41,130
12,070
..f
21,390
25,420
..f
3,740
..f
2,020
6,240
27,050
3,010
..f
68,610
870
..c
26,940 g
1,280
4,870
12,420
14,060
..f
3,950
..f
7,370
440
..f
32,960
5,550
..f
510
1,450
43,220
49,310
4,990
1,890
..i
3,240
43,930
12,390
1,030
113,210
74,430
35,360
4,400
3,870
16,690
3,060
7,240
..c
2,220
203,900
1,630
6,550
4,290
..f
..f
..f
17,890
8,940
..f
..f
2,840
50,670

PPP gross national
income (GNI) b

Gross
domestic
product
per
capita
% growth
2008–09
..
1.6
–9.5
..
1.5
4.1
..
0.4
0.4
5.8
–7.4
–1.3
1.4
..
5.7
9.6
..
2.4 g
3.2
–1.3
–7.8
–14.1
..
–3.1
..
–2.7
1.8
..
0.8
–7.1
..
0.7
3.1
–7.0
7.4
–3.1
0.0
..
3.4
1.9
–17.6
1.3
1.0
–5.2
10.4
–0.8
–4.4
3.1
–2.2
1.6
..
–15.4
9.7
–2.7
–7.3
–0.9
..
..
..
10.4
–2.6
..
–0.7
–5.5
0.4

$
millions
2009

$
per
capita
2009

..
..
1,550e
..
..
25,967
..
1,917 e
..
3,697
25,065
19,598
1,785
..
..
860
..
22,248 g
2,143
624e
13,088
25,316
..
3,878
..
18,381
2,273
..
..
803e
..
1,706
2,313 e
10,653
..
19,749e
328e
..
..
142,710
37,236
4,027
..
28,694
26,890
21,550
1,620
9,259
..
16,924
..
311e
..
8,895
8,194
13,908
..
..
..
67,892
..
..
..
764e
..

..
..
17,690e
..
..
33,480
..
5,950 e
..
5,300
12,860
50,920
3,530
..
..
1,300
..
28,050 g
2,480
8,470e
19,350
18,890
..
4,570
..
12,460
1,330
..
..
7,720e
..
1,060
3,030 e
33,390
..
7,320e
3,350e
..
..
53,590
16,510
1,950
..
57,640
52,410
10,550
5,230
22,640
..
13,270
..
2,810e
..
3,330
13,130
6,410
..
..
..
24,370
..
..
..
4,270e
..

Adult
literacy
rate
Life expectancy
at birth
Male
years
2008

Female
years
2008

%
ages
15 and
older
2008

..
..
..
72
71
74
74
74
76
64
54
75
68
..
77
63
77
77
54
..
49
69
77
67
72
59
54
..
66
74
73
46
64
80
..
69
59
65
67
76
67
44
80
78
79
72
70
77
..
69
72
68
..
63
72
60
73
72
..
74
66
75
75
69
79

..
..
..
77
76
78
80
78
82
68
54
80
74
..
82
68
81
82
57
..
51
80
81
71
77
62
58
..
71
77
78
49
70
83
..
75
63
69
72
80
78
46
85
83
83
77
73
82
..
76
80
69
..
70
77
62
79
81
..
78
72
83
77
75
85

..
..
99
98
..
91
..
..
..
53
83
95
84
99
..
74
100
98
..
..
93
100
..
..
..
87
45
..
..
..
..
51
..
..
..
86
..
100
..
94
100
90
..
..
93
97
98
92
..
88
..
..
..
97
..
88
96
96
..
87
..
90
93
99
..

355

Selected World Development Indicators 2011

Table 6

Key indicators for other economies (continued)

Population

São Tomé and Príncipe
Seychelles
Slovenia
Solomon Islands
St. Kitts and Nevis
St. Lucia
St. Vincent and
the Grenadines
Suriname
Swaziland
Timor-Leste
Tonga
Trinidad and Tobago
Turks and Caicos Islands
Tuvalu
Vanuatu
Virgin Islands (U.S.)

Density
people
per
sq. km.
2008

Population
age
composition

Gross national income
(GNI) a

PPP gross national
income (GNI) b

Gross
domestic
product
per
capita
% growth
2008–09

Adult
literacy
rate
Life expectancy
at birth

Thousands
2009

Average
annual
%
growth
2000–09

163
88
2,043
523
50
172

1.7
0.9
0.3
2.6
1.3
1.1

167
189
100
18
189
279

41
..
14
39
..
26

185
746
48,063
478
501
890

1,140
8,480
23,520
910
10,100
5,170

302
1,480e
53,821
976e
677e
1,527e

1,850
16,820e
26,340
1,860e
13,660e
8,880e

2.4
–8.7
–8.8
–4.5
–8.8
–4.9

64
68
76
65
..
70

68
79
83
67
..
76

88
92
100
..
..
..

109
520
1,185
1,134
104
1,339
33
..
240
110

0.1
1.2
1.0
3.7
0.6
0.4
6.1
..
2.6
0.1

280
3
68
74
144
260
34
348
19
314

27
29
39
45
37
21
..
..
39
21

558
2,454
2,787
2,706
339
22,076
..
..
628
..

5,110
4,760
2,350
2,460
3,260
16,490
..f
..l
2,620
..f

965e
3,447 e
5,428
5,162 e
476e
33,599e
..
..
1,029e
..

8,840e
6,690 e
4,580
4,700 e
4,580e
25,100e
..
..
4,290e
..

–2.8
4.2
–1.0
–1.3
–0.8
–4.8
..
..
1.4
..

70
66
46
60
69
66
..
..
68
76

74
73
45
62
75
73
..
..
72
82

..
91
87
..
99
99
..
..
81
..

%
Ages 0–14
2009

$
millions
2009

$
per
capita
2009

$
millions
2009

$
per
capita
2009

Male
years
2008

Female
years
2008

%
ages
15 and
older
2008

Note: For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified. a. Calculated using the World Bank Atlas method. b. PPP is
purchasing power parity; see the technical notes. c. Estimated to be upper middle income (US$3,946–12,195). d. Data are for 2003–09. e. The estimate is based on regression; others are
extrapolated from the latest International Comparison Program benchmark estimates. f. Estimated to be high income (US$12,196 or more). g. Data are for the area controlled by the government
of the Republic of Cyprus. h. Less than 0.5. i. Estimated to be low income (US$995 or less) j. Data are for 2002–07. k. Data are for 2004–07. l. Estimated to be lower middle income (US$996–3,945).

356

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

Technical notes
These technical notes discuss the sources and methods used
to compile the indicators included in this edition of Selected
World Development Indicators. The notes follow the order
in which the indicators appear in the tables.

Sources
The data published in the Selected World Development Indicators are taken from World Development Indicators 2010.
Where possible, however, revisions reported since the closing date of that edition have been incorporated. In addition,
newly released estimates of population and gross national
income (GNI) per capita for 2009 are included in table 1 and
table 6.
The World Bank draws on a variety of sources for the statistics published in the World Development Indicators. Data on
external debt for developing countries are reported directly
to the World Bank by developing member countries through
the Debtor Reporting System. Other data are drawn mainly
from the United Nations and its specialized agencies, from
the International Monetary Fund (IMF), and from country
reports to the World Bank. Bank staff estimates are also used
to improve currentness or consistency. For most countries,
national accounts estimates are obtained from member governments through World Bank economic missions. In some
instances these are adjusted by staff to ensure conformity
with international definitions and concepts. Most social data
from national sources are drawn from regular administrative
files, special surveys, or periodic censuses.
For more detailed notes about the data, please refer to the
World Bank’s World Development Indicators 2010.

Data consistency and reliability
Considerable effort has been made to standardize the data,
but full comparability cannot be ensured, and care must
be taken in interpreting the indicators. Many factors affect
data availability, comparability, and reliability: statistical systems in many developing economies are still weak; statistical
methods, coverage, practices, and definitions differ widely;
and cross-country and intertemporal comparisons involve
complex technical and conceptual problems that cannot be
unequivocally resolved. Data coverage may not be complete
because of special circumstances or for economies experiencing problems (such as those stemming from conflicts) affecting the collection and reporting of data. For these reasons,
although the data are drawn from the sources thought to be
most authoritative, they should be construed only as indicating trends and characterizing major differences among
economies rather than offering precise quantitative measures of those differences. Discrepancies in data presented
in different editions reflect updates by countries as well as
revisions to historical series and changes in methodology.

Thus readers are advised not to compare data series between
editions or between different editions of World Bank publications. Consistent time series are available from the Open
Data website (http://data.worldbank.org).

Ratios and growth rates
For ease of reference, the tables usually show ratios and rates
of growth rather than the simple underlying values. Values
in their original form are available from the Open Data website (http://data.worldbank.org). Unless otherwise noted,
growth rates are computed using the least-squares regression method (see the section on “Statistical methods” later
in this dicussion). Because this method takes into account all
available observations during a period, the resulting growth
rates reflect general trends that are not unduly influenced by
exceptional values. Constant price economic indicators are
used to exclude the effects of inflation in calculating growth
rates. Data in italics are for a year or period other than that
specified in the column heading—up to two years before or
after for economic indicators and up to three years for social
indicators, because the latter tend to be collected less regularly and change less dramatically over short periods.

Constant price series
An economy’s growth is measured by the increase in value
added produced by the individuals and enterprises operating
in that economy. Thus, measuring real growth requires estimates of gross domestic product (GDP) and its components
valued in constant prices. The World Bank collects constant
price national accounts series in national currencies that
are recorded in the country’s original base year. To obtain
comparable series of constant price data, it rescales GDP and
value added by industrial origin to a common reference year,
2000 in the current version of the WDI. This process gives
rise to a discrepancy between the rescaled GDP and the sum
of the rescaled components. Because allocating the discrepancy would give rise to distortions in the growth rate, it is
left unallocated.

Summary measures
The summary measures for regions and income groups,
presented at the end of most tables, are calculated by simple
addition when they are expressed in levels. Aggregate growth
rates and ratios are usually computed as weighted averages.
The summary measures for social indicators are weighted by
population or by subgroups of population, except for infant
mortality, which is weighted by the number of births. See the
notes on specific indicators for more information.
For summary measures that cover many years, calculations are based on a uniform group of economies so that
the composition of the aggregate does not change over
time. Group measures are compiled only if the data avail-

Selected World Development Indicators 2011

able for a given year account for at least two-thirds of the
full group, as defined for the 2000 benchmark year. As long
as this criterion is met, economies for which data are missing are assumed to behave like those that provide estimates.
Readers should keep in mind that the summary measures
are estimates of representative aggregates for each topic and
that nothing meaningful can be deduced about behavior at
the country level by working back from group indicators. In
addition, the estimation process may result in discrepancies
between subgroup and overall totals.

Table 1. Key indicators of development
Population is based on the de facto definition, which counts
all residents, regardless of legal status or citizenship. Except
for refugees who are not permanently settled in the country
of asylum, such refugees are generally considered part of the
population of the country of origin. The values shown are
midyear estimates.
Average annual population growth rate is the exponential rate of change for the period (see the section on statistical methods).
Population density is midyear population divided by
land area in square kilometers. Land area is a country’s total
area, excluding area under inland water bodies.
Population age composition, ages 0–14 refers to the percentage of the total population that is ages 0–14.
Gross national income (GNI) is the broadest measure of
national income. It measures total value added from domestic and foreign sources claimed by residents. GNI comprises
gross domestic product plus net receipts of primary income
from foreign sources. Data are converted from national currency to current U.S. dollars using the World Bank Atlas
method. This approach involves using a three-year average of
exchange rates to smooth the effects of transitory exchange
rate fluctuations. (See the section on statistical methods for
further discussion of the Atlas method.)
GNI per capita is GNI divided by midyear population. It
is converted into current U.S. dollars by the Atlas method.
The World Bank uses GNI per capita in U.S. dollars to classify economies for analytical purposes and to determine
borrowing eligibility.
PPP GNI is GNI converted into international dollars using
purchasing power parity (PPP) conversion factors. Because
exchange rates do not always reflect differences in price levels
between countries, this table converts GNI and GNI per capita estimates into international dollars using PPP rates. PPP
rates provide a standard measure allowing comparison of real
levels of expenditure between countries, just as conventional
price indexes allow comparison of real values over time. The
PPP conversion factors used here are derived from the 2005
round of price surveys covering 146 countries conducted by
the International Comparison Program. For OECD countries,

357

data come from the most recent round of surveys, completed
in 2005. Estimates for countries not included in the surveys
are derived from statistical models using available data. For
more information on the 2005 International Comparison
Program, go to http://www.worldbank.org/data/icp.
PPP GNI per capita is PPP GNI divided by midyear
population.
Gross domestic product (GDP) per capita growth is
based on GDP measured in constant prices. Growth in GDP
is considered a broad measure of the growth of an economy.
GDP in constant prices can be estimated by measuring the
total quantity of goods and services produced in a period,
valuing them at an agreed set of base year prices, and subtracting the cost of intermediate inputs, also in constant
prices. See the section on statistical methods for details of
the least-squares growth rate.
Life expectancy at birth is the number of years a newborn infant would live if patterns of mortality prevailing at
its birth were to stay the same throughout its life. Data are
presented for males and females separately.
Adult literacy rate is the percentage of persons ages 15
and older who can, with understanding, read and write a
short, simple statement about their everyday life. In practice, literacy is difficult to measure. To estimate literacy using
such a definition requires census or survey measurements
under controlled conditions. Many countries estimate the
number of literate people from self-reported data. Some use
educational attainment data as a proxy but apply different
lengths of school attendance or level of completion. Because
definition and methodologies of data collection differ across
countries, data need to be used with caution.

Table 2. Poverty
The World Bank periodically prepares poverty assessments
of countries in which it has an active program, in close collaboration with national institutions, other development
agencies, and civil society groups, including poor people’s
organizations. Poverty assessments report the extent and
causes of poverty and propose strategies to reduce it. Since
1992 the World Bank has conducted about 200 poverty
assessments, which are the main source of the poverty estimates using national poverty lines presented in the table.
Countries report similar assessments as part of their Poverty
Reduction Strategies.
The World Bank also produces poverty estimates using
international poverty lines to monitor progress in poverty
reduction globally. The first global poverty estimates for
developing countries were produced for World Development Report 1990: Poverty Using Household Survey Data for
22 Countries (Ravallion, Datt, and van de Walle 1991). Since
then the number of countries that field household income
and expenditure surveys has expanded considerably.

358

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

National and international poverty lines
National poverty lines are used to make estimates of poverty
consistent with the country’s specific economic and social
circumstances and are not intended for international comparisons of poverty rates. The setting of national poverty
lines reflects local perceptions of the level of consumption
or income needed not to be poor. The perceived boundary
between poor and not poor rises with the average income
of a country and so does not provide a uniform measure
for comparing poverty rates across countries. Nevertheless,
national poverty estimates are clearly the appropriate measure for setting national policies for poverty reduction and
for monitoring their results.
International comparisons of poverty estimates entail
both conceptual and practical problems. Countries have different definitions of poverty, and consistent comparisons
across countries can be difficult. Local poverty lines tend to
have higher purchasing power in rich countries, where more
generous standards are used, than in poor countries. International poverty lines attempt to hold the real value of the
poverty line constant across countries, as is done when making comparisons over time, regardless of average income of
countries.
Since the publication of World Development Report 1990
the World Bank has aimed to apply a common standard
in measuring extreme poverty, anchored to what poverty
means in the world’s poorest countries. The welfare of people living in different countries can be measured on a common scale by adjusting for differences in the purchasing
power of currencies. The commonly used $1 a day standard,
measured in 1985 international prices and adjusted to local
currency using purchasing power parities, was chosen for
World Development Report 1990 because it was typical of the
poverty lines in low-income countries at the time. Later this
$1-a-day line was revised to $1.08 a day measured in 1993
international prices. More recently, the international poverty
lines were revised using the new data on PPPs compiled by
the 2005 round of the International Comparison Program,
along with data from an expanded set of household income
and expenditure surveys. The new extreme poverty line is set
at $1.25 a day in 2005 PPP terms, which represents the mean
of the poverty lines found in the poorest 15 countries ranked
by per capita consumption. The new poverty line maintains
the same standard for extreme poverty—the poverty line
typical of the poorest countries in the world—but updates it
using the latest information on the cost of living in developing countries.

Quality and availability of survey data
Poverty estimates are derived using surveys fielded to collect,
among other things, information on income or consumption
from a sample of households. To be useful for poverty estimates, surveys must be nationally representative and include

sufficient information to compute a comprehensive estimate
of total household consumption or income (including consumption or income from own production), from which it
is possible to construct a correctly weighted distribution of
consumption or income per person. Over the past 20 years
the number of countries that field surveys and the frequency
of the surveys have expanded considerably. The quality of
data has improved greatly as well. The World Bank’s poverty monitoring database now includes more than 600 surveys representing 115 developing countries. More than 1.2
million randomly sampled households were interviewed in
these surveys, representing 96 percent of the population of
developing countries.

Measurement issues using survey data
Besides the frequency and timeliness of survey data, other
data issues arise in measuring household living standards.
One relates to the choice of income or consumption as a
welfare indicator. Income is generally more difficult to measure accurately, and consumption comes closer to the notion
of standard of living. Also, income can vary over time even if
the standard of living does not. However, consumption data
are not always available: the latest estimates reported here
use consumption for about two-thirds of countries. Another
issue is that even similar surveys may not be strictly comparable because of differences in number of consumer goods
they identify, differences in the length of the period over
which respondents must recall their expenditures, or differences in the quality and training of enumerators. Selective
nonresponses are also a concern in some surveys.
Comparisons of countries at different levels of development also pose a potential problem because of differences in
the relative importance of the consumption of nonmarket
goods. The local market value of all consumption in kind
(including own production, which is particularly important
in underdeveloped rural economies) should be included in
total consumption expenditure, but may not be. Surveys now
routinely include imputed values for consumption in-kind
from own-farm production. Imputed profit from the production of nonmarket goods should be included in income,
but sometimes it is omitted (such omissions were a bigger
problem in surveys before the 1980s). Most survey data now
include valuations for consumption or income from own
production, but valuation methods vary.

Definitions
Survey year is the year in which the underlying data were
collected.
Population below national poverty line, national is
the percentage of the population living below the national
poverty line. National estimates are based on populationweighted subgroup estimates from household surveys.

Selected World Development Indicators 2011

Population below $1.25 a day and population below
$2.00 a day are the percentages of the population living on
less than $1.25 a day and $2.00 a day at 2005 international
prices. As a result of revisions in PPP exchange rates, poverty
rates for individual countries cannot be compared with poverty rates reported in earlier editions.
Poverty gap is the mean shortfall from the poverty line
(counting the nonpoor as having zero shortfall), expressed
as a percentage of the poverty line. This measure reflects the
depth of poverty as well as its incidence.

Table 3. Millennium Development Goals: Eradicating
poverty and improving lives
Share of poorest quintile in national consumption or
income is the share of the poorest 20 percent of the population in consumption or, in some cases, income. It is a
distributional measure. Countries with more unequal distributions of consumption (or income) have a higher rate of
poverty for a given average income. Data are from nationally
representative household surveys. Because the underlying
household surveys differ in method and type of data collected, the distribution data are not strictly comparable
across countries. The World Bank staff has made an effort to
ensure that the data are as comparable as possible. Wherever
possible, consumption has been used rather than income.
Vulnerable employment is the sum of unpaid family
workers and own-account workers as a percentage of total
employment. The proportion of unpaid family workers and
own-account workers in total employment is derived from
information on status in employment. Each status group
faces different economic risks, and unpaid family workers
and own-account workers are the most vulnerable—and
therefore the most likely to fall into poverty. They are the
least likely to have formal work arrangements, are the least
likely to have social protection and safety nets to guard
against economic shocks, and often are incapable of generating sufficient savings to offset these shocks.
Prevalence of child malnutrition is the percentage of children under age five whose weight for age is less than minus
two standard deviations from the median for the international reference population ages 0–59 months. The table
presents data for the new child growth standards released by
the World Health Organization (WHO) in 2006. Estimates of
child malnutrition are from national survey data. The proportion of children who are underweight is the most common indicator of malnutrition. Being underweight, even
mildly, increases the risk of death and inhibits cognitive
development in children. Moreover, it perpetuates the problem from one generation to the next, because malnourished
women are more likely to have low-birthweight babies.
Primary completion rate is the percentage of students
completing the last year of primary school. It is calculated by
taking the total number of students in the last grade of pri-

359

mary school, minus the number of repeaters in that grade,
divided by the total number of children of official graduation age. The primary completion rate reflects the primary
cycle as defined by the International Standard Classification
of Education, ranging from three or four years of primary
education (in a very small number of countries) to five or
six years (in most countries) and seven (in a small number
of countries). Because curricula and standards for school
completion vary across countries, a high rate of primary
completion does not necessarily indicate high levels of student learning.
Ratio of girls to boys enrolled in primary and secondary school is the ratio of the female gross enrollment rate in
primary and secondary school to the male gross enrollment
rate.
Eliminating gender disparities in education would help
to increase the status and capabilities of women. This indicator is an imperfect measure of the relative accessibility
of schooling for girls. School enrollment data are reported
to the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural
Organization Institute for Statistics by national education
authorities. Primary education provides children with basic
reading, writing, and mathematics skills along with an elementary understanding of such subjects as history, geography, natural science, social science, art, and music. Secondary
education completes the provision of basic education that
began at the primary level, and aims at laying foundations
for lifelong learning and human development, by offering
more subject- or skill-oriented instruction using more specialized teachers.
Under-five mortality rate is the probability per 1,000
children under five years of age that a newborn baby will
die before reaching age five, if subject to current age-specific
mortality rates. The main sources of mortality data are vital
registration systems and direct or indirect estimates based
on sample surveys or censuses. To make under-five mortality
estimates comparable across countries and over time and to
ensure consistency across estimates by different agencies, the
United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and the World
Bank developed and adopted a statistical method that uses all
available information to reconcile differences. The method
fits a regression line to the relationship between mortality
rates and their reference dates using weighted least squares.
Maternal mortality rate is the number of women who
die from pregnancy-related causes during pregnancy and
childbirth, per 100,000 live births. The values are modeled
estimates. The modeled estimates are based on an exercise
by the WHO, UNICEF, the United Nations Population Fund,
and the World Bank. For countries with complete vital registration systems with good attribution of cause-of-death
information, the data are used as reported. For countries
with national data, either (1) from complete vital registration systems with uncertain or poor attribution of cause-of-

360

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

death information, or (2) from household surveys, reported
maternal mortality was adjusted usually by a factor of
underenumeration and misclassification. For countries with
no empirical national data (about 35 percent of countries),
maternal mortality was estimated with a regression model
using socioeconomic information, including fertility, birth
attendants, and GDP.
Prevalence of HIV is the percentage of people ages 15–49
who are infected with HIV. Adult HIV prevalence rates reflect
the rate of HIV infection in each country’s population. Low
national prevalence rates can be very misleading, however.
They often disguise serious epidemics that are initially concentrated in certain localities or among specific population
groups and threaten to spill over into the wider population.
In many parts of the developing world, most new infections
occur in young adults, with young women especially vulnerable. The Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS
and WHO estimate HIV prevalence from sentinel surveillance, population-based surveys, and special studies.
Incidence of tuberculosis is the estimated number of new
tuberculosis cases (pulmonary, smear positive, and extrapulmonary). Tuberculosis is one of the main causes of
death from a single infectious agent among adults in developing countries. In high-income countries tuberculosis has
reemerged largely as a result of cases among immigrants.
The estimates of tuberculosis incidence in the table are based
on an approach in which reported cases are adjusted using
the ratio of case notifications to the estimated share of cases
detected by panels of 80 epidemiologists convened by WHO.
Carbon dioxide emissions are those stemming from the
burning of fossil fuels and the manufacture of cement and
include carbon dioxide produced during consumption of
solid, liquid, and gas fuels and gas flaring divided by midyear
population (Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center,
World Bank).
Access to improved sanitation facilities is the percentage of the population with at least adequate access to excreta
disposal facilities (private or shared, but not public) that can
effectively prevent human, animal, and insect contact with
excreta. Facilities do not have to include treatment to render
sewage outflows innocuous. Improved facilities range from
simple but protected pit latrines to flush toilets with a sewerage connection. To be effective, facilities must be correctly
constructed and properly maintained.
Internet users are people with access to the worldwide
network.

Table 4. Economic activity
Gross domestic product is gross value added, at purchasers’ prices, by all resident producers in the economy plus
any taxes and minus any subsidies not included in the value
of the products. It is calculated without deduction for the
depreciation of fabricated assets or for the depletion or deg-

radation of natural resources. Value added is the net output
of an industry after adding up all outputs and subtracting
intermediate inputs. The industrial origin of value added is
determined by International Standard Industrial Classification (ISIC) revision 3. The World Bank conventionally uses
the U.S. dollar and applies the average official exchange rate
reported by the IMF for the year shown. An alternative conversion factor is applied if the official exchange rate is judged
to diverge by an exceptionally large margin from the rate
effectively applied to transactions in foreign currencies and
traded products.
Gross domestic product average annual growth rate is
calculated from constant price GDP data in local currency.
Agricultural productivity is the ratio of agricultural
value added, measured in 2000 U.S. dollars, to the number of
workers in agriculture. Agricultural productivity is measured
by value added per unit of input. Agricultural value added
includes that from forestry and fishing. Thus interpretations
of land productivity should be made with caution.
Value added is the net output of an industry after adding up all outputs and subtracting intermediate inputs. The
industrial origin of value added is determined by the ISIC
revision 3.
Agriculture value added corresponds to ISIC divisions
1–5 and includes forestry and fishing.
Industry value added comprises mining, manufacturing,
construction, electricity, water, and gas (ISIC divisions 10–45).
Services value added correspond to ISIC divisions 50–99.
Household final consumption expenditure is the market value of all goods and services, including durable products (such as cars, washing machines, and home computers),
purchased by households. It excludes purchases of dwellings but includes imputed rent for owner-occupied dwellings. It also includes payments and fees to governments to
obtain permits and licenses. Here, household consumption
expenditure includes the expenditures of nonprofit institutions serving households, even when reported separately
by the country. In practice, household consumption expenditure may include any statistical discrepancy in the use of
resources relative to the supply of resources.
General government final consumption expenditure
includes all government current expenditures for purchases
of goods and services (including compensation of employees). It also includes most expenditures on national defense
and security, but excludes government military expenditures
that are part of government capital formation.
Gross capital formation consists of outlays on additions
to the fixed assets of the economy plus net changes in the
level of inventories and valuables. Fixed assets include land
improvements (fences, ditches, drains, and so on); plant,
machinery, and equipment purchases; and the construction
of buildings, roads, railways, and the like, including commercial and industrial buildings, offices, schools, hospitals,

Selected World Development Indicators 2011

and private dwellings. Inventories are stocks of goods held
by firms to meet temporary or unexpected fluctuations in
production or sales, and “work in progress.” According to the
1993 System of National Accounts, net acquisitions of valuables are also considered capital formation.
External balance of goods and services is exports of
goods and services less imports of goods and services. Trade
in goods and services comprise all transactions between
residents of a country and the rest of the world involving a
change in ownership of general merchandise, goods sent for
processing and repairs, nonmonetary gold, and services.
GDP implicit deflator reflects changes in prices for all
final demand categories, such as government consumption,
capital formation, and international trade, as well as the
main component, private final consumption. It is derived as
the ratio of current to constant price GDP. The GDP deflator may also be calculated explicitly as a Paasche price index
in which the weights are the current period quantities of
output.
National accounts indicators for most developing countries are collected from national statistical organizations and
central banks by visiting and resident World Bank missions.
Data for high-income economies come from the OECD.

Table 5. Trade, aid, and finance
Merchandise exports show the free on board (f.o.b.) value
of goods provided to the rest of the world valued in U.S.
dollars.
Merchandise imports show the c.i.f. value of goods (the
cost of the goods including insurance and freight) purchased
from the rest of the world valued in U.S. dollars. Data on
merchandise trade come from the World Trade Organization in its annual report.
Manufactured exports comprise the commodities in
SITC sections 5 (chemicals), 6 (basic manufactures), 7
(machinery and transport equipment), and 8 (miscellaneous
manufactured goods), excluding division 68.
High-technology exports are products with high research
and development intensity. They include high-technology
products such as aerospace products, computers, pharmaceuticals, scientific instruments, and electrical machinery.
Current account balance is the sum of net exports of
goods and services, net income, and net current transfers.
Foreign direct investment (FDI) is net inflows of investment to acquire a lasting management interest (10 percent or
more of voting stock) in an enterprise operating in an economy other than that of the investor. It is the sum of equity
capital, reinvestment of earnings, other long-term capital,
and short-term capital, as shown in the balance of payments.
Data on FDI are based on balance of payments data reported
by the IMF, supplemented by World Bank staff estimates
using data reported by the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development and official national sources.

361

Net official development assistance (ODA) from the
high-income members of the OECD is the main source of
official external finance for developing countries, but ODA
is also disbursed by some important donor countries that
are not members of the OECD’s Development Assistance
Committee (DAC). DAC has three criteria for ODA: it is
undertaken by the official sector; it promotes economic
development or welfare as a main objective; and it is provided on concessional terms, with a grant element of at least
25 percent on loans (calculated at a 10 percent discount
rate).
Official development assistance comprises grants and
loans, net of repayments, that meet the DAC definition of
ODA and that are made to countries and territories on the
DAC list of aid recipients. The new DAC list of recipients
is organized on more objective needs-based criteria than
its predecessors, and includes all low- and middle-income
countries, except those that are members of the Group of 8
or the European Union (including countries with a firm date
for EU admission).
Total external debt is debt owed to nonresidents repayable in foreign currency, goods, or services. It is the sum of
public, publicly guaranteed, and private non-guaranteed
long-term debt, use of IMF credit, and short-term debt.
Short-term debt includes all debt having an original maturity of one year or less and interest in arrears on long-term
debt.
Present value of debt is the sum of short-term external
debt plus the discounted sum of total debt service payments
due on public, publicly guaranteed, and private nonguaranteed long-term external debt over the life of existing loans.
Data on external debt are mainly from reports to the
World Bank through its Debtor Reporting System from
member countries that have received International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development loans or International
Development Association credits, with additional information from the files of the World Bank, the IMF, the African
Development Bank and African Development Fund, the
Asian Development Bank and Asian Development Fund,
and the Inter-American Development Bank. Summary tables
of the external debt of developing countries are published
annually in the World Bank’s Global Development Finance.
Domestic credit provided by banking sector includes all
credit to various sectors on a gross basis, with the exception
of credit to the central government, which is net. The banking sector includes monetary authorities, deposit money
banks, and other banking institutions for which data are
available (including institutions that do not accept transferable deposits but do incur such liabilities as time and
savings deposits). Examples of other banking institutions
include savings and mortgage loan institutions and building
and loan associations. Data are from the IMF’s International
Finance Statistics.

362

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 1 1

Net migration is the net total of migrants during the
period. It is the total number of immigrants less the total
number of emigrants, including both citizens and noncitizens. Data are five-year estimates. Data are from the United
Nations Population Division’s World Population Prospects:
The 2008 Revision.

Table 6. Key indicators for other economies
See the technical notes for Table 1.

Statistical methods
This section describes the calculation of the least-squares
growth rate, the exponential (endpoint) growth rate, and the
World Bank’s Atlas methodology for calculating the conversion factor used to estimate GNI and GNI per capita in U.S.
dollars.

Least-squares growth rate
Least-squares growth rates are used wherever there is a sufficiently long time series to permit a reliable calculation. No
growth rate is calculated if more than half the observations
in a period are missing.
The least-squares growth rate, r, is estimated by fitting a
linear regression trendline to the logarithmic annual values
of the variable in the relevant period. The regression equation takes the form
ln Xt = a + bt,
which is equivalent to the logarithmic transformation of the
compound growth equation,
Xt = Xo (1 + r)t.
In this equation, X is the variable, t is time, and a = log Xo
and b = ln (1 + r ) are the parameters to be estimated. If b*
is the least-squares estimate of b, the average annual growth
rate, r, is obtained as [exp(b*)–1] and is multiplied by 100 to
express it as a percentage.
The calculated growth rate is an average rate that is representative of the available observations over the entire period.
It does not necessarily match the actual growth rate between
any two periods.

Exponential growth rate
The growth rate between two points in time for certain
demographic data, notably labor force and population, is
calculated from the equation
r = ln (pn /p1)/n,
where pn and p1 are the last and first observations in the period,
n is the number of years in the period, and ln is the natural
logarithm operator. This growth rate is based on a model of
continuous, exponential growth between two points in time.
It does not take into account the intermediate values of the

series. Note also that the exponential growth rate does not
correspond to the annual rate of change measured at a oneyear interval, which is given by
(pn – pn–1)/pn–1.

World Bank Atlas method
For certain operational purposes, the World Bank uses the
Atlas conversion factor to calculate GNI and GNI per capita
in U.S. dollars. The purpose of the Atlas conversion factor
is to reduce the impact of exchange rate fluctuations in the
cross-country comparison of national incomes. The Atlas
conversion factor for any year is the average of a country’s
exchange rate (or alternative conversion factor) for that year
and its exchange rates for the two preceding years, adjusted
for the difference between the rate of inflation in the country
and that in Japan, the United Kingdom, the United States, and
the Euro Area. A country’s inflation rate is measured by the
change in its GDP deflator. The inflation rate for Japan, the
United Kingdom, the United States, and the Euro Area, representing international inflation, is measured by the change
in the SDR deflator. (Special drawing rights, or SDRs, are the
IMF’s unit of account.) The SDR deflator is calculated as a
weighted average of these countries’ GDP deflators in SDR
terms, the weights being the amount of each country’s currency in one SDR unit. Weights vary over time because both
the composition of the SDR and the relative exchange rates
for each currency change. The SDR deflator is calculated in
SDR terms first and then converted to U.S. dollars using the
SDR to dollar Atlas conversion factor. The Atlas conversion
factor is then applied to a country’s GNI. The resulting GNI
in U.S. dollars is divided by the midyear population to derive
GNI per capita.
When official exchange rates are deemed to be unreliable
or unrepresentative of the effective exchange rate during a
period, an alternative estimate of the exchange rate is used in
the Atlas formula.
The following formulas describe the calculation of the
Atlas conversion factor for year t:
⎤
⎛ p
⎛ p
pS$ ⎞
p S$ ⎞
1⎡
et* = ⎢et − 2 ⎜ t / St $ ⎟ + et −1 ⎜ t / St $ ⎟ + et ⎥
3 ⎢⎣
⎝ pt −1 pt −1 ⎠
⎝ pt − 2 pt − 2 ⎠
⎥⎦
and the calculation of GNI per capita in U.S. dollars for year t :
Yt $ = (Yt /Nt)/et*,
where et* is the Atlas conversion factor (national currency to
the U.S. dollar) for year t, et is the average annual exchange
rate (national currency to the U.S. dollar) for year t, pt is the
GDP deflator for year t, ptS$ is the SDR deflator in U.S. dollar
terms for year t, Yt $ is the Atlas GNI per capita in U.S. dollars
in year t, Yt is current GNI (local currency) for year t, and Nt
is the midyear population for year t.

Selected World Development Indicators 2011

Alternative conversion factors
The World Bank systematically assesses the appropriateness
of official exchange rates as conversion factors. An alternative conversion factor is used when the official exchange rate
is judged to diverge by an exceptionally large margin from
the rate effectively applied to domestic transactions of for-

363

eign currencies and traded products. This factor applies to
only a small number of countries, as shown in the primary
data documentation table in World Development Indicators
2010. Alternative conversion factors are used in the Atlas
methodology and elsewhere in Selected World Development
Indicators as single-year conversion factors.

Index
Boxes, figures, notes, and tables are i by b, f, n, and t following page numbers. Features are specially noted.

A
accountability of institutions. See also transparency
defined, xvi, 84
dual accountability, 26, 26f, 200–202, 201f, 270
early policy announcements and, 22
importance of, 10, 84, 85b, 249
military and, 149
to taxpayers, 26
Aceh
Aceh Peace Process Support Program (European Commission),
138 (feature)
Aceh Peace-Reintegration Board (BRA), 138 (feature)
ASEAN role, 18, 233, 234b
building inclusive-enough coalitions, 12, 120, 137 (feature)
commitment mechanisms to lock in signals, 138 (feature)
community-driven programs, 138 (feature)
delivering early results, 138 (feature)
economic and human costs of violence, 63
Monitoring Mission, 18, 38 (feature), 138 (feature), 252
Reintegration and Livelihood Survey (World Bank), 138
(feature)
signals for confidence-building, 137–38 (feature)
social accountability, 157
success in preventing violence, 108
adaptability of institutions, 110–12, 111b, 119, 196–97. See also
best-fit approaches
AfDB (African Development Bank), 197, 213n91
Afghanistan
community-based programs, 24 (feature), 133–34b, 141n54,
261b
cross-border violence, 67 (feature)
drug production and trafficking, 10
financing rebels, 54
early results crucial to confidence-building, 253
education reform, 169
foreign troops and security stresses, 218
humanitarian aid, phasing from international to local
institutions, 266b
international ideological movements and local grievances, 5
international support for, 183
for local initiatives, 194
investment in conflict prevention, 273b
mistrust of siding with either Taliban or NATO, 100b
M-Paisa, 162, 177n87

multidonor trust funds for, 33, 202, 203b
National Rural Access Program, 161
National Solidarity Program, 18, 24 (feature), 131, 133b, 136,
141n50, 169, 170b, 255, 261b
organized criminal violence, 67 (feature)
Pashtun tribal areas on Pakistan border, 219
passage of laws and regulations, 175n44
radio “edutainment” programs, 213n111
road and traffic access, 161
special envoys to, 183, 208n7
technical assistance, 196
trafficking financing rebels, 54
violence, 53, 54t
women’s empowerment, 169, 170b
Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF), 33, 203b
Africa. See also specific countries and regions
Chinese trade with and investment in, 183
climate change coalition obtaining adaptation funding (2010),
232, 242n50
employment and security as most pressing needs in, 128
mediation used in, 187b
mobile phones, 158b
regional infrastructure challenge, 235m
African Development Bank (AfDB), 197, 213n91
African National Congress (ANC), 14, 120, 121
African Union (AU)
African Peer Review Mechanism, 233
Border Program, 35, 44n101, 219
extra-constitutional changes of government and coups d’état,
norms for dealing with, 190
GEMAP, agreement to, 126b
Peace and Security Commission, 187b
peacekeeping capacity of, 182, 281b
sanctions, 190
support to social and poverty reduction programs in
West African countries, 44n105, 292n24
Aga Khan Development Network (AKDN), 194b
agenda for international action, 290–91
agreements to abstain from violence. See also elite pacts; specific
declarations and agreements
lack of creditability, 75b
agriculture sector, support for, 162, 230, 257
AKDN (Aga Khan Development Network), 194b
amnesties for war crimes, 187
365

366

INDEX

Amnesty International, 114 (feature)
ANC. See African National Congress
Angola
Guinea-Bissau assistance, 207 (feature)
reintegration budget, 202
Annan, Kofi, 187b
Anti-Corruption Interagency Council, 156
Arbour, Louise, 37, 39 (feature), 288, 289b
Argentina
confidence-building, 12
“disappeared,” women’s role in demanding information on,
124, 140n26
early results crucial to confidence-building, 253
inclusive-enough coalition-building needing military support,
139n14
security personnel standards, 151
transitional justice, 166, 255
transition from military rule, 154
Armed Conflict Database, 70n62
arms trade and trafficking, 220–21, 220t, 241nn19–22
arraignment courts, 155b
ARTF (Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund), 33, 203b
ASEAN
crisis prevention and recovery experience, 38 (feature), 44n102,
271
East Asia Emergency Rice Reserve program, 286
Food Security Information System (AFSIS), 230b
as model of regional cooperation, 238 (feature)
Myanmar disaster situation (2008), 186, 233, 234b
political leadership role of, 233, 234b
subregional initiatives, 35
ASEAN-EU Aceh monitoring mission. See Aceh
Asia. See also specific countries and regions
mediation rarely used in, 187b
Asian Development Bank, 25, 229, 236, 239 (feature), 243n68
assessment tools
international tools, 272t
post-conflict/post-crisis needs assessment, 250
strengthening, 23, 250
use of, 22–23
asset expansion programs, 162, 257
assistance programs, international. See humanitarian aid;
international support
Association of Southeast Asian Nations. See ASEAN
AU. See African Union
audits
donor funds released upon, 202
social audits of government records, 175n61
AusAID, 185
Fragile States Unit, 209n14
Australia
cross-governmental operation in Solomon Islands (Regional
Assistance Mission to Solomon Islands, RAMSI), 185
International Deployment Group (IDG), 212n86
Australian Transaction Reports and Analysis Center (AUSTRAC),
229b, 242n42
Autodefensas Unidas de Colombia (AUC) guerillas, 151
Azam, Jean-Paul, 119

B
Bakassi Boys (Nigeria), 136b
Balkans
fears of oppression and civil conflict, 74
modern organized violence, 67 (feature)
bargainers and proposers/responders, 82b
Becker, Gary, 79b
Belize, violent crime arising in post-conflict state, 4f
Bellerive, Jean-Max, 153
best-fit approaches
adapted to local conditions, 8, 13, 22, 106, 145, 196–97, 259–60
advantages of, 248
for citizen security, justice, and jobs, 256t
defined, xvii, 117n17
duration of, 169
experimental, flexible approach, 171
food aid response, 286
job creation, 161–63
judicial reforms, 155
preferred to best practices, 107b, 147
procurement arrangements, 199
trade-offs in, 258
best practices, success not guaranteed by use of, 146–47
birth registration programs, 154–55
Bolivia, drug trafficking and, 10, 223b
border areas and insecurity, 218–20. See also regional and
cross-border initiatives
Bosnia and Herzegovina
“Bulldozer Initiative” of 2002, 157
currency board, 168
developmental progress, 53
economic goals met through justice and inclusion, 132b
education reform, 169
High Judicial and Prosecutorial Councils, 154
international aid for, 183
law enforcement personnel, vetting of, 151
mass rape, 60
MDG progress, 6
regulatory simplification, 257
religious and ideological grievances, 67–68 (feature)
streamlining of peace agency implementation, 291n3
success in preventing violence, 11
World Bank support for negotiations, 186
Botswana, success of aid from single or dominant donor, 199
The Bottom Billion (Collier), xi, 105b
Brahimi, Lakhdar, 15, 165b
Brancati, Dawn, 178n112
branding of aid programs, 191, 210n50
BRAVO (Birth Registration for All versus Oblivion) program, 154
Brazil
Fica Vivo program, 186
indirect vs. direct costs of violence, 65b
multisector response to homicide rate, 148, 148b
NGO Viva Rio, 197, 213n92
police pacification units, 152
victims of political violence, reparations for, 125–26
break from past. See commitment mechanisms

Index

Breaking the Conflict Trap (Collier), 105b
bribes. See corruption
“Brookings Process,” 210n52
budgets, 33, 127, 128b, 149, 160b, 214n116, 256. See also
transparency
Burkina Faso
AU Border Program pilot project, 219
developmental comparison with Burundi, 63, 64f
Burundi
community-based programs, 24 (feature), 261b
deaths from political violence, 70n62
development consequences of violence, compared to Burkina
Faso, 63, 64f
duration of aid for, 193
integrating former rebels into national army, 100b, 132b
poverty reduction, international or joint national-international
strategies, 193
rapid-results approach, 170
volatility in international aid to, 195b
Business Edge of the International Finance Corporation (IFC),
177n88
business regulation, 157

C
cabinets, size of, 121, 124
California
gang-related homicides in Los Angeles, 123b
legalizing drugs, 43n86
Cambodia
community-based programs, 24 (feature), 261b
duration of donor projects in, 196
EC survey of assistance to, 25
qualified contractors not interested in bidding on projects, 197
Canada
Financial Transactions and Reports Analysis Center
(FINTRAC), 242n42
Stabilization and Reconstruction Task Force (START), 185,
209n14
capacity of institutions. See institutional capacity
“capture the narrative,” 124
Caribbean and modern organized violence, 67 (feature), 76b
Caribbean Catastrophic Risk Insurance Fund, 236b
Carnegie Commission Report on Preventing Deadly Conflict, 186
cash transfer programs, 162, 177n92
Cederman, Lars-Erik, 81
Celtel (mobile phones company), 158b
Central Africa. See also specific countries
spillover effects in, 77b
Central African Republic
overtaxing of capacity by “too much, too soon” reform, 146
public financial management (PFM) reviews, 174n14
volatility in international aid to, 195b
Central America. See also specific countries
corruption and, 34, 57
depth of institutional transformation, 172–73 (feature)
drug trafficking and, 34, 57, 223b
gangs and rebels, 55, 57, 69n26
peace processes involving neighboring countries, 218, 233

367

private security industry in, 135
regional cooperation to manage public goods, 212n90
U.S. deportation of maras, 78b
violence, 172–73b
rising despite political peace, 58f
weak institutions failing, 10, 76b
Central Asia. See also specific countries
external pressures and external assistance, 238–40 (feature)
Central Asia Regional Economic Cooperation program, 239
(feature)
Central Asia Regional Information and Coordination Center, 239
(feature)
Centre for Global Development, 34, 282b
Centre for Humanitarian Dialogue (Aceh, Indonesia), 186
Centro de Coordinación de Acción Integral (CCAI, Colombia),
114 (feature)
Chad, camps for displaced populations, 61
Chad College, 101b
Chambas, Mohamed Ibn, 208b
Charte du Nord (Côte d’Ivoire), 82
children
infant mortality rates in countries affected by violence, 63, 63f
as victims of deadly diseases, 210n49
as victims of violence, 60
Chile
building inclusive-enough coalitions, 12, 121, 122, 127
civilian oversight of judiciary, 154
confidence-building, 12
early results crucial to confidence-building, 253
political transitions and peacemaking, 13
security personnel standards, 151
success in preventing violence, 11
transitional justice, 166
transition from military rule, 154
China
economic reform, 146b
infrastructure investment supporting private sector
development, 200
social networks of migrant workers, 79b
Township and Village Enterprises, 146
trade with and investment in Africa, 183
China Road and Bridge Corporation, 227b
CICIG (International Commission Against Impunity).
See Guatemala
citizen security, 148–53
cross-border insecurity, 20, 218–20
defined, xvi, 116n13
developmental progress and, 6, 7t, 41n51
economic costs of, 5
global effects of lack of, 66
importance of, 45, 252
interdisciplinary approaches, 131, 132b
investing in as essential to reduce violence, xii, 273b, 282b
linking to justice, 256–57
local level and community policing, 152
nonstate actors not good fit for, 135
role of security forces and, 19, 149
security stresses, 73–78, 74t

368

INDEX

citizen security (continued)
selected indicators, 336–37t
transnational ideological threats, 222–26
citizen security, justice, and jobs
importance of, 128, 147–48, 148b, 248
international support for, 199–200
serious gaps, 205
roadmap for breaking cycles of violence, 13
track for improving global response for security and
development, 2, 28–31, 29f
in WDR framework for building resilience to violence, 45f, 47t,
103, 106
civilian oversight of security, 150b, 151, 154, 256, 275
civilian surge capacity, 196, 212n86
civil society
confidence-building and, 13
premature load-bearing and, 101b
service delivery by, 134
civil wars
GDP losses due to, 5–6
natural resource rich countries and, 54
number of, 51, 52b, 269
recurring, 57, 58t. See also repeated cycles of violence
classification of economies, 341–42, 343t
climate change
African states, coalition obtaining adaptation funding (2010),
232, 242n50
food insecurity and, 230
impact on conflict risk, 35
water stress and, 230
CMI. See Crisis Management Initiative
coalitions. See inclusive-enough coalitions
cocaine. See drug trafficking
“cocooning” efforts to bypass national organizations and
institutions, 145
coercion to maintain national stability, 8
Cold War and civil wars as dominant form of violence, 183
“collaborative capacities,” 41n40, 209n32
collaborative coalitions, 2, 16–18
Collier, Paul, xi, 33, 105b, 117n34, 282b, 291n14
Colombia
absence of state governance in regions of, 7
assassinations of government and political figures ordered by
drug cartels, 101
assessment tools, use of, 23
border security with Ecuador, 220
community-based programs, 24 (feature), 261b
confidence-building, 15, 114 (feature), 254b
quick, visible results for, 130b
court reform, 155b
Democratic Security Policy, 149, 150b
disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR)
program, 151
drug trafficking and, 10, 43n86, 223b, 285
international support for, 184
justice sector reform, 22, 154
lessons learned from, 113–14 (feature)
multisector response to homicide rate, 148, 148b

Politica Nacional de Rehabilitación (PNR), 130b, 141n45
redeployment of security forces, 251
security goals through multisectoral intervention, 132b
success in preventing violence, 11, 113–14 (feature), 121, 122,
250
color revolutions, 117n27
Commission on Human Security report (2003), 45, 116n16
commitment mechanisms
adaptability of, 119
defined, xvii, 209–10n35
international support for, 188–90
signals of break with past and, 104, 124–27, 126b, 138 (feature)
community-driven development (CDD)
adapted to country context, 30
capacity-building through, 131, 132–33
citizen security, justice, and jobs, 19, 30
cross-border development programming, 283
donor risk management and, 202
evaluations of effectiveness of, 141n49
in post-conflict environments, 122, 138 (feature)
state-society relations strengthened through, 133–34b
community empowerment programs, 255
Community of Sant’Egidio, 154, 182b
complementary programs for institutional transformation, 18–19
conditional cash transfers, 162
confidence, defined, xv
confidence-building, 119–42
as basic principle for violence prevention, 247–48
basic tools for, 17 (feature), 250–55, 251t
commitment mechanisms. See commitment mechanisms
defined, 41–42n52, 116n14
delivery of early results. See early results
differentiating tools to match country circumstances, 253–55
inclusive-enough coalitions, 120–27, 185–88. See also inclusiveenough coalitions
international support for, 185–93, 272t
lessons from national reformers, 119
roadmap for breaking cycles of violence, 11, 12–13, 18–20
track for improving global response for security and
development, 28
trade-offs for, 253–55
in WDR framework for building resilience to violence, 45f,
46–47t, 103–6
conflict diamonds, 25, 34, 43n87, 220, 220t, 221b, 240n13, 241n14
“conflict trap,” 117n34
contracting out, 134, 142n59, 202, 227b
conversation on violence, xix–xx, xxii, 2
coordinating international aid, 271. See also international support
corruption
anti-corruption initiatives, 19, 42n61, 156–57, 258, 260, 262b,
284
bilateral cooperation against, 264b
credibility of new regimes in legacies of, 126, 248
in developed countries, 36
financial flows and financial system weaknesses, 25, 227–29,
284–85
private sector anti-corruption mechanisms, 157, 158b
regional and cross-border initiatives, 20

Index

standards and harmonization, 229
transnational, 226–27
violence associated with, 6–7, 252
Costa Rica
community policing, 152
court reform, 155b
economic costs of violence, 65b
cost-benefit analysis for criminal violence, 81
costs of violence, 5, 65b, 66, 186. See also human costs of violence
Côte d’Ivoire
militants and gangs, 54
multisectoral community approaches, 260
social inequalities and civil war, 82, 83
Country Policy and Institutional Assessment (CPIA) frameworks,
87b, 95n65, 117n19
country-specific strategies, framework for, 248–50, 249t
coups d’état
donor support to social and poverty reduction programs in
West African countries with, 44n105, 292n24
international community’s norms for dealing with, 190
reduction of number of in Africa, 36, 68n5
court system reform. See justice and fairness
criminal justice functions and dispute resolution, 153–56, 199, 276
crisis escalation, recognizing signs of, 252
Crisis Management Initiative (CMI), 43n80, 137 (feature), 186
cross-border initiatives. See regional and cross-border initiatives
cross-border insecurity, 20, 218–20
culture of democracy, 165b
Cyclone Narghis recovery efforts of ASEAN, 38 (feature)

D
data gaps for studying violence
climate change’s impact on conflict risk, 35
continuing global learning platform, 288–90
future research agenda, 290
international aid flows, 280
justice and fairness issues, 82
labor market data in developing countries, 79b, 93n27
methodology and, xix
weak institutions at risk for onset and recurrence of civil war,
73, 84
data sources and methodology, 341
death rates
in Central America, 172 (feature)
former Soviet Union during transformation of government,
101, 102b
infant mortality rates in countries affected by violence, 63, 63f
from wars, 2, 3f, 51, 52b, 68n2, 338
debt relief, 183
decision-cycle-oriented feedback loops, 171
decision making, hierarchy of, 255
de Greiff, Pablo, 140n33
de jure vs. de facto outcomes, 145
delivery mechanisms, 31, 104–6
Democratic Charter of 2001 (OAS), 51
Democratic Republic of Congo
absence of state governance in regions of, 7
criminal gangs supporting political activities, 5

369

diamond trade. See conflict diamonds
early results crucial to confidence-building, 253
EU Operation Artemis in, 281b
fragmentation of international aid to, 199, 211n66
lootable natural resources of, 54, 57, 81
payments to ex-combatants, 110
peacekeeping force, deployment of, 192
polling by SMS (short message service), 205, 214n132, 291n7
road and traffic access, 161
Rwanda–DRC agreement (2007), 218
school management by religious organizations, 134
security forces committing human rights abuses, 149
stabilization policy to curb hyperinflation, 168
women-run small businesses, 177n98
women’s organizations, role in sexual violence prevention, 152
democratization
culture of democracy, 165b
risks for civil war with, 101
demographics, key indicators for, 354–55t
Deng Xiaoping, 146b
deportation from U.S.
of gang members back to Central America, 173 (feature)
of maras, 78b
Desai, Nitin, 165b
DESEPAZ (Colombia), 113 (feature), 132b
developed countries
anti-corruption initiatives, 229
double standards of, 36, 287
organized crime within, 76b
development. See also developmental consequences of violence
global system of, 2
key indicators of, 344–45t
national vs. regional administration of, 219
developmental consequences of violence, 5, 60–66
GDP losses, 64–65, 65b
international scope, 66
poverty/wealth gap and, 60, 60f
spillover effects, 65–66
trade and, 6, 64, 71n73
Development Assistance Committee framework, 34, 200
Development Impact Evaluation (DIME) Initiative, 292n25
devolution and decentralization, 164–66, 167b
diamonds. See conflict diamonds; natural resources
differentiating strategy and programs to country context, 21–23,
48, 48t, 111–12
Dili Declaration (May 2010), 198
diplomacy, global system of, 2
Dirty War (Argentina), 124
disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) programs,
151–52. See also reintegration of ex-combatants
displaced populations and refugees, 61, 66, 127, 338
dispute resolution, 134, 155, 175n35. See also justice and fairness
domestic violence, 152, 169
donor behavior, change of, 26, 194–96, 212n74. See also
international support
donor risk management, 31–34, 202–4, 278–80, 282b. See also dual
accountability
Dos Santos Cruz, Carlos Alberto, 129b

370

INDEX

double compacts, 193, 211n67, 265
double standards of developed countries, 36, 287
Doyle, Michael W., 210n35
DRC Speaks! (geo-polling project using cell phones), 214n132,
291n7
drivers of conflict, 9f
drug consumption, 57, 222
legalization, 222, 224–25b
drug-related violence
assassinations of government and political figures ordered by
drug cartels, 101
in Central America, 10b, 34, 53
in West Africa, 5, 34, 56b
drug trafficking
economics of cocaine trafficking, 222b
external stresses and, 34, 172 (feature), 217, 220t
importance in fragile states, 221
interdiction efforts against cocaine trafficking, 223b
internal stresses and, 74
legalization, 222, 224–25b
policy impact on producing, transit, and consuming countries,
43n86
dual accountability, 26, 26f, 200–202, 201f, 270
dynamics of change and differences among countries, 48, 99,
111–12. See also differentiating strategy and programs to
country context; transforming institutions

E
early results
balance of quick, visible results vs. longer-term institutionbuilding, 129–31, 130–31b
basic tools for, 255–58
confidence-building and, 104–6, 128–36, 248
defined, xvii
delivery of, 19, 138 (feature), 253
interdisciplinary approach, 131, 132b
international support for, 190–93
early warning system for food insecurity, 230b, 286
East Asia Emergency Rice Reserve program, 286
Eastern Caribbean Central Bank, 236b
Eastern Caribbean Civil Aviation Authority, 236b
Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court, 235, 236b
Eastern Caribbean Telecommunications Authority, 236b
ECOM (soft commodity trading company), 213n111
economic activity by country, 350–51t
Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS)
GEMAP, agreement to, 126b, 206 (feature)
Guinea-Bissau assistance, 207 (feature)
Liberia and planning for transition, 32 (feature), 206 (feature)
mediation initiatives of, 29, 186, 233
pressure on countries with coups d’états, 16
West African Coast Initiative on organized crime, 283
economic reforms, 167–68
interdisciplinary approaches, 131, 132b
economic stresses, 6, 7t, 74t, 78–81, 90t
economic theories of violence, 75–76b
economic theory and impunity, 116n9
ECOWAS. See Economic Community of West African States

ECSC (European Coal and Steel Community), 237b, 238 (feature)
Ecuador’s border security with Colombia, 220
education
reform, 169
religious organizations managing schools, 134
responsibility decentralized to local level, 135b, 142n57
Egmont Group initiative, 228, 241–42n39
EITI. See Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
Ekeh, Peter, 136b
elections, 8, 101, 120, 164, 251
electricity
Ghana supplying to Liberia, 32 (feature), 191b
importance for jobs and security, 128, 158, 160, 160b, 257
elite cooperation in elections, 164
elite pacts
defined, xv, 72
as strategy to prevent violence, 86
vicious cycle of violence and, 88
El Salvador
deportation of maras from U.S., 78b
economic costs of violence, 65b
homicide rates, 58
military stalemate and reforms, 173 (feature)
transition moment, 173 (feature)
violent crime arising in post-conflict state, 2, 4f, 54t
women guerrillas involved in land reform, 163
employment. See jobs
energy. See also electricity; oil
consumption patterns, 230
Equator Principles, 286, 292n19
escaping violence and developing resilience. See transforming
institutions
“Esquipulas Process,” ending Nicaraguan war (1987), 218
Ethiopia
allocation of budget support to local and municipal
governments, 43n92, 291n6
development progress, 51
MDG progress, 6
Productive Safety Net Programme, 161, 176n73
ethnic differences. See also justice and fairness
horizontal inequality and onset of civil violence, 75b, 81–82,
94nn46–47
European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC), 237b, 238 (feature)
European Commission
Aceh Peace Process Support Program, 138 (feature)
on duration of aid programs, 196
public financial management (PFM) reviews, 174n14
survey of assistance to Cambodia, 25
European Union
Congo force from, 194
Guinea-Bissau assistance, 207 (feature)
long-standing regional programs, 25
mediation used in, 187b
model of cross-border regional cooperation, 44n100, 219–20,
235, 237b, 242n51, 284
Operation Artemis in Democratic Republic of Congo, 281b
programs for previously conflict-affected border regions, 35
travel restrictions imposed by Zimbabwe’s leaders, 189

Index

exclusion of groups. See also inclusive-enough coalitions
challenges of, 249
due to past abuses, 121, 124, 127, 140n27, 162
ideologically motivated groups capitalizing on themes of
injustice and exclusion, 222
linked to violence, 252
public attitudes toward, 168–69
expectations
defined, xv
of rapid change, 8, 108–10
unrealistic due to levels of mistrust, 99–101, 100b
external stresses, xi, 216–43
core tools to address, 263t
cross-border insecurity, 218–20
cross-border security linked to development, 263
defined, 72
deportation of maras from U.S., 78b
diminishing, 107
economic stresses, 226–29
illicit international financial flows, 227–29
transnational corruption, 226–27
external support and resistance to, 11, 15–16, 106–7
gang culture, 173 (feature)
mobilizing external support, 262–65
national action to address, 17 (feature)
reducing
international support, 262–65
regional action, 281–86
regional stresses, 233–37. See also regional and cross-border
initiatives
resource stresses, 229–32
role of, 10, 11
track for improving global response for security and
development, 28, 34–35
trafficking, 220–22, 220t
transnational ideological movements, 222–26
vulnerability to, 9f
in WDR framework for building resilience to violence, 45f, 47t,
103
weak institutions and vulnerability, 101–3
external support and resistance to external stresses. See external
stresses
Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), 34, 37, 188,
210n38, 285, 286, 288

F
Fafo surveys
on human costs of violence, 59
on land dispute resolution by traditional authorities, 134,
141–42n56
fairness. See justice and fairness
Famine Early Warning System Network, 230b, 286
FAO. See Food and Agriculture Organization
FARC (Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia), 79b, 113
(feature), 121, 252, 253
Fearon, James D., 10, 78, 84, 85b, 94n39, 105b, 119, 141n49
fears of oppression, 74
feasible results indicators to demonstrate progress, 17 (feature)

371

feudalism, 90 (feature)
finance
flows and financial system weaknesses, 25, 227–29, 284–85
key indicators of, 352–53t
Financial Action Task Force (FATF), 228, 241n38
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FINCEN, U.S.), 242n42
financial intelligence units (FIUs), 241–42n39, 242n43
financial support for security and justice reforms, 29
Fixing Failed States (Ghani & Lockhart), 42n71, 211n67
flexibility in approaches to progress, 171
Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), 34, 231, 232b, 286
food insecurity, 229–30, 230b, 285–86
food shocks (2008–09), 8, 81, 86f, 103
Foreign Exchange Transaction Reports, 242n43
forestry industry. See timber industry
former Soviet Union and increased violence due to government
transformation, 101, 102b
fragile countries
affected by conflict and violence, 39n3, 68n8, 87b
aid programs in, 25, 183
child welfare in, 63
corruption. See corruption
external stresses for. See external stresses
food shocks, 81, 103, 285–86. See also food insecurity
global tendency to ignore, 217
landlocked or island nations, 233–34
mistrust and expectations of, 100b
resisting independence, 166
Sub-Saharan Africa’s regional infrastructure challenge, 235m
technical assistance, 196
Fragile States Facility (FSF), 213n91
fragility
composed of weak capacity, accountability, and legitimacy of
institutions, 85, 87b
defined, xvi, 95n65
innovative thinking about, 95n68
in WDR framework for building resilience to violence, 45f
fragmentation of aid. See international support
framework for building resilience. See WDR framework (2011)
Free Aceh Movement, 108, 120, 137 (feature)
Freedom House, 114 (feature), 208n1

G
g7+, 43n91, 197, 291n5
gangs
dispute resolution mechanism of, 133–34
global rise of, 53f
homicides related to, 123b, 172 (feature)
links to employment, respect, and identity, 79
multisectoral programs of prevention at community level, 148
reasons for membership, 79b
gaps in data. See data gaps for studying violence
Garang, John, 78
GDP. See gross domestic product
GEMAP. See Governance and Economic Management Assistance
Program
gender-based violence, 60–61, 61t, 152
gender issues. See women

372

INDEX

Geneva Declaration on Armed Violence and Development (2008), 59
geographical location. See justice and fairness
Georgia
coordination between humanitarian and development partners,
193
corruption crack down, 156
Germany
recognition of past crimes, 166
systematic and gradual reform, 259
Ghana
confidence-building, 12
Consultative Assembly, 121
electricity supplied to Liberia, 32 (feature), 191b
National Architecture for Peace, 189b
peace committees, 23
refugees seeking shelter in, 66
success in preventing violence, 11, 108, 120, 121, 122, 189b
Ghani, Ashraf, 42n71, 193, 211n67
global conversation on violence, xix–xx, 2
Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information for
Tax Purposes, 228
Global Information and Early Warning System, 230b, 286
globalization
changes in, xii
leading to external stresses. See external stresses
Goldstone, Jack A., 81
Governance and Economic Management Assistance Program
(GEMAP), 42n61, 126b, 206 (feature)
Greater Mekong Subregion (GMS) countries, 35, 43n98, 236,
243n68, 263, 284
greed or grievance as motive for violence, 75b
Green Climate Fund, 242n50
grievance as motive for violence, 75b, 88
Griffiths, Martin, 187b
gross domestic product (GDP)
losses due to civil war and violent crime, 64–65, 65b
losses due to neighboring conflicts, 5, 65
military expenditures as percentage of, 338–39
paired with political instability as predictor of civil war onset,
93n9
Groups of Friends, 218, 240n6
Guatemala
anti-corruption initiatives, 42n62
Comprehensive Peace Agreement, 173 (feature), 179n143
court reform, 155b
deportation of maras from U.S., 78b
economic costs of violence, 65b
gang membership, reasons for, 79b
GDP losses due to violence, 5
homicide rates, 58
International Commission Against Impunity (CICIG), 18,
42n62, 189, 190b, 210n46, 252, 265
multisectoral community approaches, 260
peace accords, 173 (feature), 209n29
private security industry, 135
violent crime arising in post-conflict state, 2, 4f
women’s courts, 155
women’s equality, 209n29

Guéhenno, Jean-Marie, 149, 151
Guinea, value chain projects in, 176n67
Guinea-Bissau
assistance programs, 207 (feature)
reintegration budget, 202
UN Peacebuilding Commission in, 184
volatility in international aid to, 195b, 207 (feature)
Gusmão, Xanana, 125

H
Haiti
anti-corruption initiatives, 20, 264b
confidence-building, 129b
corruption, 227
disarmament project (2003–04), 212n79
disaster’s effect on institutional transformation, 103
election violence, 67 (feature)
international aid for, 183
justice sector reform, 22
multidonor trust funds for, 202
NGOs operating in, 183, 197
overtaxing of capacity by “too much, too soon” reform, 146
police reforms, 13, 153, 153b
polling of citizen perceptions, 259
reforms prior to 2010 disaster, 110b
volatility in international aid to, 195b
health issues
associated with violence, 66
disease focus of humanitarian aid, 210n49
reform, 169
Heavily Indebted Poor Countries initiative (World Bank/IMF),
206 (feature)
heroin. See drug trafficking
Herzegovina. See Bosnia and Herzegovina
high-income countries. See developed countries
Hoeffler, Anke, 84
Holst Fund (Palestinian Authority), 33
homicide rates. See death rates
Honduras
deportation of maras from U.S., 78b
homicide rates, 58
judicial branch, 175n45
private security industry, 135
violent crime arising in post-conflict state, 4f
human costs of violence, 6, 59–60, 59f
humanitarian aid
disease focus of, 210n49
duration of assistance, 33, 191–92
growth of, 183
phasing from international to national and local institutions,
19, 29–30, 265, 266b, 272t
in post-conflict environments, 2
rapid relief from, 191
trade-offs with, 265
human rights abuses
civil wars and, 64, 82, 82b
institutional accountability and, 88
military and, 149

Index

prosecutions for, 51
signaling early intent to redress, 125
Human Rights Watch, 136b
human security. See citizen security
humility, 246
Humphreys, Macartan, 141n49
Al-Hussein, Zeid Ra’ad, 273b

I
IADB. See Inter-American Development Bank
Ibrahim, Mo, 158b
Ibrahim Prize for African leadership, 37, 288
IBRD (International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development), xi
ICRG. See International Country Risk Guide
IDA (International Development Association), 196
identity. See justice and fairness
ideological grievances, 5, 67–68 (feature)
ideology-based groups and transnational ideological threats,
83, 83f, 222–26, 241n30. See also terrorism and
terrorist attacks
IFAD (International Fund for Agricultural Development), 232b
IFC. See International Finance Corporation
IFIs (international financial institutions), role in developmental
underpinnings of violence prevention, 275–76, 280
Ijaz, Syeda S., 84
illegal drug trade. See drug trafficking
Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of
1996 (U.S.), 78b
IMF. See International Monetary Fund
immunization drives, 210n49
impunity and use of violence, 114, 116n9
inclusion. See inclusive-enough coalitions; justice and fairness
inclusive-enough coalitions, 16–18, 120–27
adapted to local context, 118, 122
confidence-building and, 12–13, 104, 111, 248
defined, xvii
international support for, 185–88
lessons learned, 124
types of coalitions and strategies, 120–24
India
“back to basics” job creation programs, 19
National Rural Employment Guarantee Act, 161, 176n73
Indonesia. See also Aceh
“back to basics” job creation programs, 19
building inclusive-enough coalitions, 12, 120, 137 (feature)
community-based programs, 24 (feature), 261b
corruption crack down, 156
multidonor trust funds for, 202
political transitions and peacemaking, 13
rapid-results approach, 171
success in preventing violence, 11, 108
Indonesian Reconstruction Agency, 265
industrialized countries. See developed countries
inequality. See also justice and fairness
horizontal inequality and onset of civil violence, 75b, 79,
94nn46–47
horizontal vs. vertical inequality, 179n131

373

link between income inequality and criminal violence, 79
risk for civil conflict and, 6, 22
vulnerability to criminal activities and, 7
infant mortality rates in countries affected by violence, 63, 63f
informal employment, 162, 257
infrastructure investment, 158–61, 200, 234, 235m, 257
institutional capacity
Central American reform, 173 (feature)
challenges of, 249
changes in international capacity, 30
“collaborative capacities,” 209n32
defined, xvi, 84
early policy announcements and, 22
importance of, 84
indicators of, 95n65
justice reform and, 154
operational gaps in capacity, 210n52, 270–71
strong capacity indicators but low governance indicators,
116n4
trust and capacity to deliver change, 100
violence and, 88
weak capacity and early results possible, 131–36
institutional challenges, types of, 249
institutional legitimacy as key to stability, xi–xii, 7
early results achieved despite, 131–36
Western model not necessarily relevant, 8
institutional transformation. See transforming institutions
institutions, defined, xvi, 41n36
Inter-American Development Bank (IADB), 23, 199, 271
interdisciplinary approaches, 131, 132b
interlinked violence, 54–55
internal international agencies. See international support
internal stresses
defined, 72
economic stresses, 74t, 78–81, 90t
justice and fairness, 74t, 81–84, 90t
security stresses, 73–78, 74t, 90t
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(IBRD), xi
International Commission against Impunity (CICIG). See
Guatemala
International Commission on Property Rights for the Poor, 232
International Committee of the Red Cross, 154
international comparison of economic risks for political conflict,
80b
International Corruption Hunters Alliance, 34, 229, 284
International Country Risk Guide (ICRG), 64, 78, 95n65
International Development Association (IDA), 196
International Dialogue on Peacebuilding and Statebuilding, 31, 36,
286–87
International Finance Corporation (IFC), 177n88, 200, 213n111,
292n19
international financial institutions (IFIs), role in developmental
underpinnings of violence prevention, 275–76, 280
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), 232b
International Institute for Strategic Studies, xi
International Monetary Fund (IMF), 188, 206–7 (feature)
International Network on Conflict and Fragility (OECD), 10, 84

374

INDEX

International Organization for Migration, 232
international support, 2, 27 (feature), 180–214
agenda for action, 290–91
branding of aid programs, 191, 210n50
for citizen security, justice, and jobs, 28, 29f, 199–200
for commitment mechanisms, 188–90
for confidence-building, 185–93
data gaps and development of indicators, 280
donor risk management, 31–34, 202–4. See also dual
accountability
duration of, 193–96
for early results, 190–93
evolving international architecture, 181–85, 205
government misgivings about working with, 131
for inclusive-enough coalitions, 185–88
internal international agency systems, 197–99
procedural conformism, 205
reforming, 31–34, 32 (feature), 276–81
key indicators of, 352–53t
lessons learned from, 205
marshaling support from other countries and from global and
regional institutions, 250, 286–88
mobilizing for external stresses, 16–17, 20–21, 264–65
monitoring results, 204–5
new directions for, 268–93
in post-conflict phase, 184, 184f
preventing repeated cycles of violence, 270–76
capacity, operational gaps in, 210n52, 270–71
employment, 274
justice and jobs, structural gaps in, 271–74
police and justice, 274–76
principles for combined operations, 271
recovery instead of prevention as focus of, 183–85
reducing external stresses, 281–86
reducing risks of violence, 35–38
roadmap for breaking cycles of violence, 20–21
track for improving global response for security and
development, 28, 36–37, 47t
for transforming institutions, 193–200
violence with international links, 22
volatility and fragmentation in, 194, 195b, 199, 208b, 211n66,
212n74, 217
ending stop-go pattern of assistance, 280–81, 282b
Internet use, effect on governance, 109–10, 117n26
interstate wars, number of, 51, 52b
invasions and occupations, 218
Iran, citizen pressure through technology, 110
Iraq
Coalition Provisional Authority (CPA), 8, 196
elections, 164
electricity crisis during reconstruction, 160b
foreign troops and security stresses, 218
multidonor trust funds for, 202
privatized security, failure of, 135
restoration of confidence and “surge” (2006–07), 8
spillover effect of occupation of, 78
Israeli-Palestinian violence, 186

J
Jamaica
criminal gangs supporting political activities, 5
indirect vs. direct costs of violence, 65b
inner-city community infrastructure and services for the poor,
132b
militants and gangs, 54
Japan
infrastructure investment supporting private sector
development, 200
land reform, 162, 257
speed in transforming institutions, 13
women’s courts, 156
jobs. See also citizen security, justice, and jobs
“back to basics” job creation programs, 19, 257
best-fit approaches, 161–63
developing capacity for, 30–31
exploitative employment as risk, 79
international support for, 200, 271–74
investing in as essential to reduce violence, xii, 79, 289
low skill levels, 161
prioritization of, 274
private sector jobs, 157–58
reintegration of ex-combatants, 138 (feature)
self-employment, 162
social cohesion and, 6
transitional employment, 200
women, employment of, 163–64
youth unemployment, 6, 30, 274
Jordan, camps for displaced populations, 61
justice and fairness. See also citizen security, justice, and jobs; social
cohesion
confidence-building and, 140n33
corruption. See corruption
court reform, 154–55, 155b, 175n45
criminal justice functions and dispute resolution, 153–56, 199,
276
defined, xvi
developing capacity for, 30, 88
Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court, 235
economic goals met through, 132b
ideologically motivated groups capitalizing on themes of
injustice and exclusion, 222
international support to fix structural gaps in, 271–74
investing in as essential to reduce violence, xii
linking to security, 256–57
prioritizing investment in, 273b, 274–76, 282b
stresses and vulnerability to violence, 74t, 81–84, 94nn46–47
factor in civil war, 6, 7t
transitional justice approaches, 140n34, 166–67

K
Kagame, H.E. Paul, 158b
Kazakhstan, regional cooperation and stresses, 238–40 (feature)
Kecamatan Development Program, 138 (feature), 157
Keefer, Philip, 78, 119

Index

Kenya
contested elections (2007), 110
criminal gangs supporting political activities, 5
economic costs of violence, 65b
elections, 120, 164
mediation, 187b
militants and gangs, 54
organized criminal violence, 67 (feature)
violence, 54t
Kimberley Process Certification Scheme to stem sale of conflict
diamonds, 25, 34, 43n87, 220, 221b, 240n13, 285
Kleiman, Mark A.R., 224b
Korea, Democratic People’s Republic of, Internet’s effect on
governance, 117n26
Korea, Republic of
confidence-building, 12
land reform, 162, 257
speed in transforming, 13, 110
success of aid from single or dominant donor, 199
transition moment, 22, 107
Kosovo
“back to basics” job creation programs, 19
community policing, 152
early results crucial to confidence-building, 253
refugees from, 66
technical assistance, 196
value chain development in dairy industry, 158, 159b, 257
World Bank support for negotiations, 186
Kuwait invasion (1990), spillover effect of, 78
Kyrgyz Republic, regional cooperation and stresses, 238–40
(feature)

L
labor migration. See migration
Lacey Act, 285
Laitin, David D., 105b
Lamamra, Ramtane, 281b, 290
landlocked or island nations, 35, 233–34
land reform, 162, 257
land-use issues, 230–31, 232b
Large Cash Transaction Reports, 242n43
Las Madres de la Plaza, 123–24, 140n26
Latin America. See also specific countries
coordinating political, security, and development responses to
violence, 148b
court reform, 155b
employment and security as most pressing needs in, 128
women’s human rights activism, 123–24
Law and Order Trust Fund for Afghanistan (LOTFA), 33, 203b
law enforcement personnel
army vs. police, unclear roles of, 149, 200
community policing, 152
prioritizing reform of, 274–76
UN standardized training of, 199
U.S. vs. EU structures, 213n107
vetting of, 151
women participating as, 151–52, 174n25, 188

375

layered approach to problem solving, xii, 2
leadership
agreements between strong leaders. See elite pacts
confidence-building and, 106, 119
initiatives to recognize, 37, 288
qualities of effective leadership, 139n9
seizing opportunities to prevent violence, 252
Lebanon
camps for displaced populations, 61
electricity restored during civil war, 13, 160, 160b
UN peacekeeping operation, 221
women’s courts, 155
legalization of drugs, 222, 224–25b
legal reform. See justice and fairness
legitimacy
defined, xvi, 84
functioning of, 95n67
lack of legitimate institutions and risk of recurring violence,
85–89, 85b
trust and, 151
Le Roy, Alain, 281b, 290
lessons learned
from Central Asia’s regional cooperation institutions, 239–41
(feature)
from Colombia, 113–14 (feature)
from international support, 205, 271
from national reformers, 119
Levi, Margaret, 41n49, 116n1
Liberia
anti-corruption initiatives, 19, 126, 126b, 156, 260, 262b
assistance programs, 206–8
community-driven development (CDD), evaluations of
effectiveness of, 141n49
confidence-building, quick, visible results for, 130b
coordination between humanitarian and development
partners, 193
dual key authority in revenue earning and expenditure, 42n61
early results crucial to confidence-building, 253
economic goals met through security intervention, 132b
electricity assistance from Ghana, 32 (feature), 191b
Emergency Employment Plan, 161
Governance and Economic Management Action Plan, 252
Governance and Economic Management Assistance Program
(GEMAP), 18, 188–89, 202, 262b
international support and government planning for transition,
193, 206–7 (feature), 250
mass rape, 60
qualified contractors not interested in bidding on projects, 197
refugees from, 66
spillover effects on neighboring countries, 65
success in preventing violence, 11
transition moment, 22
women
economic empowerment of, 19
peace negotiations, role of, 123
security tasks, participation in, 152
World Bank/IMF Heavily Indebted Poor Countries initiative,
206 (feature)

376

INDEX

Liberian Women’s Initiative, 13
Liberian Women’s Mass Action for Peace movement, 123
Libya uprising (2011), effect on oil prices, 5, 66
Linn, Johannes, 240 (feature)
local confidence building, 14, 122, 122b
Lockhart, Clare, 42n71, 193, 211n67
Lomé Agreement (1999), 121
Lomé Declaration (2000), 36, 51, 287
Lord’s Resistance Army (Uganda), 67 (feature), 218
low-income countries
civil wars in, 78
labor-intensive programs, 161
reasons why change becomes so difficult for, 99
Loya Jirga (Afghanistan), 165b, 177–78n103

M
Macmillan Limited, 227b
macroeconomic policy, 168
Madagascar
community monitoring in health sector, 157
land-use issues, 230–31
Mali
AU Border Program pilot project, 219
land dispute resolution, 155
nongovernmental interventions for peace, 139n21
success in preventing violence, 120
violence, 54t
Mandela, Nelson, 14, 120
marginalized groups. See exclusion of groups
Matveeva, Anna, 240 (feature)
MDGs. See Millennium Development Goals
MDTFs. See multidonor trust funds
media, role of, 124
mediation, increased support for, 182–83, 186, 187b
heavy mediation start-up budget (HMSB), 209n23
light mediation start-up budget (LMSB), 209n23
links to sustained mediation, 272t
mediators and special envoys, 29, 187b, 213n96
Mehta, Pratap, 168
Melanesia
gang violence associated with ethnic groups, 54
ritualized warfare, 68–69n14
men, impact of violent conflict on, 60–61, 61t, 138 (feature)
Mérida Initiative, 57, 192
Mesnard, Alice, 119
Meteoro program (Colombia), 15
methodological note, xix–xx, 341
Mexico
economic costs of violence, 65b
violence levels, 10
Middle East and North Africa
institutional capacity vs. accountability, 84
peace processes involving neighboring countries, 233
violence in, xi, 5, 53
middle-income countries
aid and support for fragile countries from, 183, 269
consumption patterns in food and energy, 230
as examples of recent successful transitions, xii

labor-intensive programs, 161
lessons for, 22
lessons from recent transformations of, 197
reasons why change so challenging for, 99
socioeconomic consequences of violence in, 63
migration, 163, 258, 259
Miguel, Edward, 6, 81
military expenditures, 338
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs)
job creation as low priority, 200
low-income countries or countries engaged in conflict and, xi,
1, 5, 50, 63, 277
monitoring results, 21, 259
poverty reduction, 348–49t
violence as constraint on meeting, 61–63, 62f, 70n57
Min, Brian, 81
Miron, Jeffrey A., 225b
mistrust, need to eliminate. See trust
mobile phones, 110, 158b, 214n132
money-laundering. See corruption
monitoring results, 21, 204–5, 259, 260t
Montaño, Jorge, 10, 76b
MONUC (UN Peacekeeping Force in the Democratic Republic of
Congo), 192, 194
Mozambique
anti-corruption initiatives, 19, 260, 262b
civil liberties rating of, 208n1
corruption crack down, 156
development progress, 51
duration of donor projects in, 196
Feeder Roads Program, 161
international support, benefits of, 182b
macroeconomic reforms, 168
MDG progress, 6
peace agreement, 182b
security goal met by economic intervention, 132b
signal of break with past, 125
success in preventing violence, 11
Multi-Country Demobilization and Reintegration Program, 218, 219b
multidonor trust funds (MDTFs), 33, 202, 203b, 212n79
Multilateral Development Banks supporting private sector
development, 200
multisectoral approaches
community programs, 29, 255
transforming institutions, 148–49
Myanmar
Cyclone Nargis (2008) disaster situation, 186, 233, 234b, 271
devolution and decentralization, 166
drug trafficking, 57
Internet use, effect on governance, 117n26
regional cooperation with Thailand, 233

N
Naidoo, Jay, 14, 115b
Namibia, Women and Child Protection Unit within police force, 152
natural disasters
effect on institutional transformation of Haiti, 103
food insecurity and, 230b

Index

Myanmar disaster situation (2008), 186
number of, 339
South-South exchanges and, 186
World Bank rapid response to crisis and emergencies,
208n10
Natural Resource Charter, 34, 188, 210n39, 285, 291–92n14
natural resources
exploitation of, 10, 67 (feature)
external stresses, 229–32
standards for responsible use of, 188, 285–86
wealth of, and civil wars, 54, 78, 81
World Resources Outlook, 285
neighborhood as factor in conflict risk, 40n33
Nepal
community-based programs, 24 (feature), 261b
Comprehensive Peace Agreement, 55, 91–92 (feature)
economic empowerment, 163, 258
educational responsibility decentralized to local level, 135b
interlinked security, economic, and political stresses leading
to warfare, 90–92 (feature)
PBF funding to, 192
Peacebuilding Commission, 33
value chain projects, 176n67
women’s economic empowerment, 19, 163b, 258
Nestlé, 213n111
Netherlands
duration of aid for Burundi, 193
security sector reform, 185
New Partnership for Africa’s Development, 233
Nicaragua
deportation rate from U.S., 78b
“Esquipulas Process,” ending war (1987), 218
transition moment, 22, 125, 173 (feature)
violent crime arising in post-conflict state, 4f
women
economic empowerment, 19
security tasks, participation in, 152
Nigeria
anti-corruption initiatives, 20, 264b
corruption, 227
Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, 264b
oil trafficking from, 241n15
organized criminal violence, 67 (feature)
vigilantism, 135, 136b
war with Biafra, 166
Nilsson, Desirée, 119
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs). See also civil society
aid programs in fragile countries, 25, 134
data collection and analysis, role in, 280
donor risk management and, 202
government misgivings about working with, 131
health system reform, role of, 169
local coalition building and, 122
proliferation of international NGOs, 183
time frames for support from, 193
NORAD (Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation), 229
Norconsult, 227b
North, Douglass, 86, 105b

377

Northern Ireland
criminal gangs supporting political activities, 5
multisectoral community approaches, 260
political transitions and peacemaking, 13
social inequalities and civil war, 83
success in preventing violence, 11, 259
trafficking financing rebels, 54
violence, 54t

O
OECD countries
security and development assistance from, 26
terrorist threats in, 55
OECD Handbook on Security System Reform, 175n37
Office of the Coordinator for Reconstruction and Stabilization
(U.S.), 185, 209n14, 212n86
oil
prices, effect of terrorist attacks, 5, 66, 94n39
revenues, wealth-sharing arrangements for, 127
trafficking in, 220t, 241n15
opportunity for change. See transition moments
optimism, 110, 110b, 116n3
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
(OECD), 25. See also OECD countries
Anti-Bribery Convention, 226
anti-corruption initiatives, 229
International Network on Conflict and Fragility, 26
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development–
Development Assistance Committee (OECD-DAC), 149,
166, 282b, 291n4
Organisation pour l’Harmonisation en Afrique du Droit des
Affaires, 236b
Organization of American States (OAS), 51, 190
organized criminal violence
data gaps for studying. See data gaps for studying violence
defined, xv, 39n1
drug-related violence and, 10
inequality between rich and poor and, 22
nature of modern organized violence, 67–68 (feature)
rise of in post-conflict countries, 2, 4f
stress posed by, 76b
Oshima, Kenzo, 273b
Otpor movement, 117n25
oversight mechanisms, 31. See also civilian oversight of security

P
Pacific Islanders’ migration, 163
Pacific Islands Forum’s Pacific Plan for Regional Integration and
Cooperation, 235
Pakistan
assessment tools, use of, 23
budget allocations as signals of political reform, 127, 128b
confidence-building, visible results for, 130–31b
cross-border violence, 67 (feature)
devolution and decentralization, 166
Frontier Crimes Regulation, 127
IFC programs for small and medium entrepreneurs, 213n111
international ideological movements and local grievances, 5

378

INDEX

Pakistan (continued)
international long-term support for local initiatives, 194
organized criminal violence, 67 (feature)
Pashtun tribal areas on Afghanistan border, 219
post-crisis needs assessment, 250
violence, 53, 54t
Palestinian territories
Holst Fund, 33
Palestinian Authority, accountability and transparency of, 157
security forces, 149
spillover effect of military operations in West Bank and
Gaza, 78
Panama, violent crime arising in post-conflict state, 4f
Papua New Guinea
nongovernmental interventions for peace, 139n21
organized criminal violence, 67 (feature)
violence, 54t
women’s role in peace process, 123
parenting behavior and training, 169
partisanship of state institutions, 7
Pashtun tribal areas (Afghanistan-Pakistan border), 219
past crimes, justice for, 166–67
patronage
dismantling of, 8, 123
regimes using to maintain their power, 8, 258
state legitimacy and, 95n67
PCNAs (Post Conflict Needs Assessments), 192–93
peacekeeping, global system of, 2, 28, 183. See also United Nations
flexible peacekeeping arrangements, 281b
performance legitimacy, defined, 84
Peru
drug trafficking and, 10, 223b
mass rape, 60
Philippines, violence in, 54, 54t
Physical Rights Integrity Index, 64, 339
physical terrain features making rebellion easier, 40n33, 93n2
Pidufala, Oksana, 240 (feature)
pirates
costs on trade and economic activity, 5, 65
Somalian, 1, 67 (feature), 263
Pitsuwan, Surin, 38 (feature), 234b
police. See law enforcement personnel
policy options. See practical policy and program tools
political legitimacy, defined, 84
political stresses. See inequality; justice and fairness
Political Terror Scale, 82b
political theories of violence, 75–76b
Portillo, Alfonso, 190b
Post Conflict Needs Assessments (PCNAs), 192–93
post-conflict phase, 2, 3t
failure to address repeated cycles of violence, 23
international support in, 184, 184f
organized violence rising in, 2, 4f
recovery and lingering risk for violence, 64
security forces in, 149–51
poverty
key indicators of, 346–47t
rising in countries affected by violence, 4f, 5, 60, 60f

practical policy and program tools, 16–23, 246–67
basic principles, 247–48
basic tools
for confidence-building, 17 (feature), 250–55, 251t
for early results, 255–58
core tools, 17 (feature)
country-specific strategies, framework for, 248–50, 249t
framework for tailoring country-specific strategies, 248–50
lessons of what succeeds, 18–19
linking early results to transforming institutions, 255–60
failure to use tools to full potential, 192–93
fitting program design to context, 259–60, 261b
managing trade-offs, 258–59
monitoring results, 259
reducing external stresses and mobilizing external support,
262–65
in WDR framework, 47t
pragmatism, 171
preemptive strike as accepted risk, 74
“premature load-bearing” of institutions, 100, 101b
prevention of violence. See also specific countries and regions
international support’s focus on recovery instead of prevention,
183–85
as part of transition, 108
repeated cycles of violence, 270–76
through citizen security, justice, and jobs, 28, 29f. See also
citizen security, justice, and jobs
“Principles for Responsible Agricultural Investment that Respects
Rights, Livelihoods and Resources,” 232b
prioritization of institutional transformation. See sequencing and
prioritizing reforms
prisoner’s dilemmas, 116n9
private sector
anti-corruption mechanisms, 157, 158b
crime and violence prevention initiatives, 152, 200
jobs, 157–58
outreach to, in coalition building, 122
private security companies, 135, 136b
privatization of state assets, 168
procurement procedures, 198–99, 198b
proposers/responders and bargainers, 82b
publication of cost estimates for projects, 198b
public attitudes toward excluded groups, 168–69
public finance for employment, 161–63
public financial management (PFM) reviews, 174n14
public-private partnerships, 13, 253
public services, quality of, 235, 236t

R
racial inequality. See justice and fairness
rainfall shocks and violence, 6, 81
Ramirez de Rincon, Marta Lucia, 15, 150b
RAMSI (Regional Assistance Mission to the Solomon Islands),
153, 185
rape, 60–61
rapid economic and social change as drivers for conflict, 75b
rapid-results approach, 170, 196
recovering countries, defined, 70n50

Index

reducing risks of violence, 23–39. See also practical policy and
program tools
citizen security, justice, and jobs, 28–31
external stresses and international support, 34–35
international support, 35–38
tracks for, 28–39
transforming institutions, 31–34
refugees. See displaced populations and refugees
regional and cross-border initiatives
aligning international assistance behind, 37–38, 38 (feature),
190, 210n48, 288
complementing global level to reduce external stresses, 25,
281–86
cooperation to manage public goods, 212n90, 236b, 291n4
cross-border trade, 283–84
development programming, 35, 219–20
layered approach to problems, xii, 2, 20
reaffirming consensus on international norms and standards,
39 (feature)
regional norms, essential in preventing violence, 117n25,
289b
regional stresses, 216–18, 233–37
security support, 283
shared regional technical and administrative capacity, 283–84
Regional Assistance Mission to the Solomon Islands (RAMSI),
153, 185
“regional subsidiarity,” 233
reintegration of ex-combatants, 100b, 132b, 138 (feature), 142n70,
149, 162, 192, 202
religious differences. See justice and fairness
RENAMO (Mozambican National Resistance), 125
reparations for victims of political violence, 125–26, 140nn33–34
repeated cycles of violence, 2–8, 3–4f, 3t, 57–71
decline in wars, 51–53, 52b
defined, xv
developmental consequences of, 60–66. See also developmental
consequences of violence
failure to address in post-war assistance, 23
global effects of, 66
international support for preventing, 270–76
modern violence and, 53–58
need to address, 252
in WDR framework, 46t
repeated spiral in transforming institutions, 12, 12f, 107–8
research needs. See data gaps for studying violence
resilience of institutions, 98, 103–8. See also confidence-building;
transforming institutions
in WDR framework, 45f, 46–47t, 103f
“Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict Affected
and High-Risk Areas,” 220
restoring confidence. See confidence-building
Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia. See FARC
road maintenance, 132b, 161, 206 (feature)
roadmap for breaking cycles of violence, 8–23
citizen security, justice, and jobs, 13. See also citizen security,
justice, and jobs
collaborative coalitions, 16–18
confidence-building, 12–13, 18–20. See also confidence-building

379

differentiating strategy and programs to country context,
21–23, 111–12
external stresses and international support, 15–16
international support, 20–21. See also international support
monitoring results, 21
practical policy and program tools, 16–23. See also practical
policy and program tools
regional and cross-border initiatives, 20
transforming institutions, 8–12. See also transforming
institutions
“rules of warfare,” nations observing, 109
Russia
aid for post-conflict Tajik regime, 163, 177n93
increased violence due to government transformation,
101, 102b
Rwanda
anti-corruption institutions, 158b
“back to basics” job creation programs, 19
community-based programs, 24 (feature), 261b
contract enforcement regime, 157
development progress, 51
equality for women, 177n98
fears of oppression and civil conflict, 74
justice system, 167
mass rape, 60
MDG progress, 6
participation of previously excluded groups, 127, 162
transition moment, 22
value chain development in coffee industry, 158, 159b, 257
Rwanda–DRC agreement (2007), 218

S
SALW (small arms and light weapons), trade in, 221,
241nn19–22
Sambanis, Nicholas, 93n9, 210n35
sanctions, effectiveness of, 189, 190, 210n41, 226
Santiago Principles, 286, 292n20
Satyanath, Shankar, 6, 81
schools. See education
“second best” solutions, 107b, 117n17, 248, 289
second-chance programs, 161
secrecy jurisdictions, 228, 242n44
security. See citizen security
“security dilemma,” 74
self-employment, 162
sequencing and prioritizing reforms, 145–48
after security, justice, and jobs, 164
as core tool, 255–56
defined, xvii
investment in citizen security and justice reforms, 273b, 282b
“too fast” process, effect of, 144, 145–46
“too slow” process, effect of, 144
Sergenti, Ernest, 6, 81
sexual violence, 60–61, 61t
shared regional administrative capacity, 35
Sharif, Sheikh, 263
shura (Arabic word for “consultation” or “council”), 134b, 141n54
Siemens Group, 227b

380

INDEX

Sierra Leone
coordination of aid programs, 196
devolution and decentralization, 166
justice reform, 154
lootable natural resources of, 54
organized criminal violence, 67 (feature)
reintegration budget, 202
Revolutionary United Front (RUF), 255
success in preventing violence, 11, 120–21
women
economic empowerment, 19
victims of domestic violence, 152
signaling, 137–38 (feature), 251. See also commitment mechanisms
defined, xvii
need to address crisis situations, 186
Singapore
confidence building, 14
housing programs, 257
local level, trust of, 122, 122b
post-independence development, 13
security, justice, and jobs, 148b
Sirleaf, Ellen Johnson, 32 (feature), 79, 126, 126b, 197
small arms and light weapons (SALW), trade in, 221, 241nn19–22
smuggling. See trafficking
social accountability, 157, 258
social audits of government records, 175n61
social cohesion. See also inclusive-enough coalitions
creating sense of fairness and social justice, 127, 140n41
firearms and illicit drugs, effect of, 7
jobs and, 6
value chains and, 176n67
Social Cohesion Program—a joint UNDP-UNDPA program, 188
social inequality. See inequality; justice and fairness
Solomon Islands
militants and gangs, 54
organized criminal violence, 67 (feature)
Somalia
low conflict interludes in, 8
outreach to Ethiopia, 263
peacekeeping missions in, 281b
pirates off shore of, 1, 65, 67 (feature), 263
Somaliland, nongovernmental interventions for peace, 139n21
South Africa
apartheid and strong state capacity, 116n4
assessment tools, use of, 23
confidence-building, 14, 115b, 254b
constitutional reform and development of trust, 22
early results crucial to confidence-building, 253
elections, 164, 251
expertise for reconstruction and development, 250
guaranteeing employment to former adversaries, 100b, 127
international assistance from
to Burundi, Rwanda, and Southern Sudan, 212n90
to Guinea-Bissau, 207 (feature)
National Peace Accords, 251
nongovernmental interventions for peace, 139n21
security services, 151
signals on political reform, 125, 127

success in preventing violence, 11, 108, 115b, 120, 121
systematic and gradual reform, 259
violent crime arising in post-conflict state, 2
Southern African Development Community (SADC), 230b
Southern Sudan, emergence of, 53
Southern Sudan Multidonor Trust Fund, 202, 203b, 204
South-North exchanges, xii, 36, 287–88
South-South exchanges
benefits of, 197, 292n23
increases in, xii, 36, 208n6, 287–88
natural disaster situations and, 186
technical assistance, 44n104, 212n90, 292n23
Soviet Union (former) and increased violence due to government
transformation, 101, 102b
special independent agencies, 252
spillover effects, 65–66, 67 (feature)
in Central Africa, 77b
regional cooperation to deal with, 218, 284–85
in South America, 220
spiral. See repeated spiral in transforming institutions
Sri Lanka
school programs and UNICEF aid, 192
social inequalities and civil war, 83
stakeholders
types of, 249
understanding urgency of action, 252
Statistics 40 (poll barometer), 280
Stedman, Stephen, 119
Stewart, Frances, 168
Stolen Assets Recovery Initiative (StAR), 34, 229, 284
stop-go aid in fragile states, 27f
strategic communication, need for, 252
stresses. See also external stresses; internal stresses
defined, xv
types of, 249
vulnerability to violence and, 9f, 73–95
economic stresses, 78–81
justice, 81–84
reducing risks of violence, 34–35
roadmap for breaking cycles of violence, 15–16
Sub-Saharan Africa’s regional infrastructure challenge, 235m
subsidiarity, 233, 271
Sudan
Agreement on Wealth Sharing, 127
camps for displaced populations, 61
devolution and decentralization, 166, 178n106
multidonor trust funds for, 202, 203b, 204
peacekeeping missions in, 281b
qualified contractors not interested in bidding on projects, 197
slow deployment of UN Mission, 192
women’s role in peace process, 123
Suspicious Transaction Reports, 242n43
SWIFT (Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial
Telecommunication) banking system, 229b

T
Tajikistan
international long-term support for local initiatives, 194

Index

regional cooperation and stresses, 238–40 (feature)
violence, 54t
Taliban in Pakistan and Afghanistan, 83, 134
Tamil minority in Sri Lanka, 83
tax deduction for bribes, 226
Taylor, Charles, 65, 67 (feature), 156
technical assistance, 29, 196, 212n90, 292n23
technology advances, effect on governance, 109–10, 252
Teleco, 264b
temporary labor migration, 162–63
temporary pacts in conflict areas, 8
terminology, 342
terrorism and terrorist attacks
bilateral counterterrorism and counter-crime programs, 184, 222
costs of incidents within a country, 65
costs of transnational attacks on economic growth, 5, 66
definition of terrorism, 69n18, 241n29
financing, 228, 241n38
global threat of, 53, 55, 55f
hijacking and kidnapping in Colombia, 15
ideology-based groups, support for, 83, 83f, 222–23, 226,
241n30
media coverage of, 53, 53f
social inequalities and injustice and, 83
UN General Assembly comprehensive strategy for
counterterrorism, 222
Thailand
indirect vs. direct costs of violence, 65b
regional cooperation with Myanmar, 233
theories of violence prevention and WDR framework (2011),
105b, 289
third-party guarantors and assistance, 100b, 188, 235–36, 252
Timap for Justice (nonprofit in Sierra Leone), 154
timber industry, 156, 220, 220t, 241nn16–17, 285
time for transition to institutional resilience, 13, 110, 247
speed. See transforming institutions
Timor-Leste
army vs. police, unclear roles as source of violence, 149
ASEAN role, 233, 234b
budget debates, 251
building inclusive-enough coalitions, 12, 120, 122, 187
health system reform, 20, 169, 179n137, 192
humanitarian aid, phasing from international to local
institutions, 266b
international support and government planning for transition, 193
justice system, 156, 257
outreach to Indonesia, 263
participation of previously excluded groups, 127, 140n27, 162
Petroleum Law, 156
signal of break from past, 125
success in preventing violence, 11
transfers to victims of violence, 258
transition moment, 22
Tinbergen, Jan, 282b
Tinbergen’s rule, 282b
Togo
evidence of deteriorating situation in, 186
refugees from, 66

381

“too much, too soon” syndrome. See sequencing and prioritizing
reforms
Touré, Amadou Toumani, 120
trade
cross-border trade, 283–84
key indicators of, 352–53t
losses due to violence, 6, 64, 71n73
piracy, costs of, 5, 65
trade-offs
for confidence-building, 253–55, 258–59
for international delivery capacity, 265
risk of action vs. risk of inaction, 277
tradition and state legitimacy, 95n67
trafficking. See also conflict diamonds; drug trafficking
counter-trafficking initiatives, 283, 284–85
financing rebel groups, 54
global rise of, 53f
stress posed by, 76b, 217, 220–22, 220t, 240–41nn13–22
transforming institutions
adaptability, 110–12, 111b. See also best-fit approaches
bottom-up and top-down programming, 255
breaking cycles of violence through, 8–12
challenges for, 99–103, 105b
communication technologies and, 110
complementary programs for, 18–19
continuous process of, 169–71
core tools, 17 (feature), 256t
corruption, 156–57
criminal justice functions and dispute resolution, 153–56
defined, xvii
delivering citizen security, justice, and jobs, 13, 272t. See also
citizen security, justice, and jobs
devolution and decentralization, 164–66
dual accountability and managing risks of action, 200–205
economic reforms, 167–68
education reform, 169
elections, 164
escaping violence and developing resilience, 98, 103–8, 103f
confidence-building, 104–6. See also confidence-building
external support and resistance to external stresses, 106–7.
See also external stresses
repeated spiral, 12, 12f, 107–8
as essential for stability, xii
expectations for, 99–101, 108–10
health reform, 169
infrastructure investment, 158–61
international support for, 193–200, 272t
lack of legitimate institutions and risk of recurring violence
requiring solutions of, 86
past crimes, justice for, 166–67
“premature load-bearing” of institutions, 100, 101b
prioritization of. See sequencing and prioritizing reforms
private sector jobs, 157–58
public attitudes toward excluded groups, 168–69
public finance for employment, 161–63
security and, 13, 148–53
speed of, 10, 11t, 15, 101, 105b, 108–10, 109b. See also
sequencing and prioritizing reforms

382

INDEX

transforming institutions (continued)
supporting, 193–200
adapting to local context, 196–97
time and patience, 193–96
track for reducing risks of violence, 31–34
transitions from humanitarian aid, 19
trust issues and rising expectations, 99–101
vulnerability to external stress, 101–3
in WDR framework for building resilience to violence, 45f,
46–47t
women’s economic empowerment, 163–64
transition moments
breaking away from fragility and conflict, 107, 115b
defined, xvii
differences among types of, 22
taking advantage of, 249
transparency
of budget and expenditures, 156–57, 251
at grassroots, 127
trade-offs with collusion, 198b
Transparency International Corruption Perceptions Index,
126b, 226
treaties working in concert with UN missions, 210n35
triangular cooperation, 197
trust. See also confidence-building
civil wars and, 64
defined, 41n49, 116n1
early policy announcements and, 22, 125
lack of visible improvements and, 124
legitimacy and, 151
regional services sharing and, 235
transforming institutions and, 8, 98, 99–101
unrealistic due to levels of mistrust, 100b
violence prevention through establishing, 149
truth-telling process, 126, 166, 178n117, 178n119
Turkmenistan, regional cooperation and stresses, 238–40 (feature)
Twitter revolution, 109

U
Uganda
cross-border violence, 67 (feature)
mass rape, 60
Public Expenditure Tracking Survey on education funds, 127
Veterans Assistance Program, 202
Ultimatum Game, 82b
UN Children’s Fund (UNICEF), 30, 154, 191–92
UN Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), 34, 232b,
286
UN Department of Political Affairs (UNDPA)
confidence-building programs, 186
innovative programs, 271
mediation budget, 209n23
peace and development advisers, 213n96
regional offices, 25
violence reduction programs, 23
UN Development Programme (UNDP)
adapting community-level programs to country context, 24
(feature)

citizen security, justice, and jobs, delivery of, 199
humanitarian aid, 30
innovative programs, 271
multisectoral approaches, 132b
peace and development advisers, 213n96
preventive tools of, 23
South-South facilities, 197
UNDP-UNDPA Social Cohesion Program, 188
unemployment linked to violence, 7, 30–31, 78, 79, 79b, 252
UNIFEM (United Nations Development Fund for Women), 188
United Kingdom
anti-money laundering laws, 227
Department for International Development (DFID)
duration of aid from, 193
Program Risk Assessment Matrix, 213n97
Stabilization Unit, 185, 209n14
direct costs of violence, 65b
Multilateral Agency Review, 185
Serious Organized Crime Agency (SOCA), 242n42
United Nations
Children’s Fund. See UN Children’s Fund (UNICEF)
Conference on Trade and Development. See UN Conference on
Trade and Development (UNCTAD)
Convention Against Corruption, 26, 226
Convention Against Genocide, 26
criminal justice, need to play leadership role in, 276
crisis prevention and recovery experience, 271
Department of Disarmament Affairs, 221
Department of Peacekeeping Operations (UNDPKO), 192, 199
Department of Political Affairs. See UN Department of Political
Affairs (UNDPA)
Development Programme. See UN Development Programme
(UNDP)
General Assembly comprehensive strategy for counterterrorism,
222
High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), 154
Independent Review of Civilian Capacities, 197, 199
integrated missions, 208–9n11, 270
interagency initiative on Ecuador-Colombia border, 219
Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan, 194
Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina (UNMIBH), 151
Mission in Liberia (UNMIL), 152
Mission in Sudan, 192
Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), 280, 285
operation in Mozambique (ONUMOZ), 182
Peacebuilding Commission, 37, 184, 288
Peacebuilding Committee and Peacebuilding Support Office,
209n14
Peacebuilding Fund, 192
Peacebuilding Support Office in Guinea-Bissau (UNOGBIS),
207 (feature)
Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus, 194
Peacekeeping Force in the Democratic Republic of Congo
(MONUC), 192, 194
peacekeeping missions, 18, 28, 152, 182, 194, 200, 210n35, 218,
271, 281b, 338
peacekeeping operation in Lebanon, 221
Regional Center for Conflict Resolution, 239 (feature)

Index

Secretariat procurement systems, 197
Secretary-General’s High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges,
and Change, 69n18
Security Council. See UN Security Council
Special Program for the Economies of Central Asia, 239
(feature)
Standing Police Capacity and Office of Rule of Law and
Security Institutions, 199, 275
United Nations–World Bank–European Union post-crisis needs
assessment, 23, 250
University of the South Pacific, 236b
UN Security Council
conflict settlement provisions on democratic processes, 187
drug trafficking, threat of, 220
GEMAP, agreement to, 126b
international tribunal in Arusha, Tanzania, 167
peacekeeping functions under mandate of, 30, 200
urbanization, effect of, 7
U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), 159b, 191
Famine Early Warning System Network, 230b, 286
Office of the Transition Initiatives, 213n97
Uzbekistan, regional cooperation and stresses, 238–40 (feature)

V
value chains, support for, 157–58, 159b, 176n66, 257
vetting of personnel
judges and prosecutors, 154
law enforcement and security personnel, 151
vicious cycle of conflict, 6–8, 72. See also repeated cycles of
violence
vicious cycle of weak institutional legitimacy, 10, 84–89, 85b, 89f
vigilantism, 135, 136b
violence
aid volatility increases and, 27f
breaking cycles of. See roadmap for breaking cycles of violence
civil wars. See civil wars
combination of stresses resulting in, 7
cycles of. See repeated cycles of violence
data gaps. See data gaps for studying violence
economic and political theories of, 75–76b
effects of, generally, 50
global conversation on, xix–xx
interlinked, 54–55
21st century version of, 2, 53, 54t
types of threat, 249
vulnerability to, 73–95. See also vulnerability to violence
Violence and Social Orders (North, Wallis, & Weingast), 105b
violence prevention theories and WDR framework (2011), 105b
virtuous cycle in WDR framework, 46t, 98, 108
Viva Rio (NGO), 197, 213n92
Voices of the Poor project, 78–79, 147
von Billerbeck, Sarah, 84
vulnerability to violence, 73–95
domestic stresses. See internal stresses
external stresses. See external stresses
multiple stresses raising risks of, 73–84
vicious cycle of weak institutional legitimacy, 10, 84–89, 85b
in WDR framework, 46t

383

W
WACI (West Africa Coast Initiative), 44n99
Wallis, John, 86, 105b
Walter, Barbara, 10, 82b, 84, 85b
war crimes
amnesty for, 187
justice for, 166–67
recognition of, 166
reparations. See reparations for victims of political violence
wars. See also civil wars
interstate wars, number of, 51, 52b
water availability and riparian conflict, 230, 231b
water treaties, 230
WDR Advisory Council (2011), xx, xxib
on anti-corruption mechanisms, 158b
on civilian oversight of defense, 150b
on confidence-building, 14–15, 115b, 129b
on economic reform in China, 146b
on external stresses, 10
on flexible peacekeeping arrangements, 281b
on international agency reform, 32 (feature)
on local-level politics, 122b
on mediation as cost-effective approach, 187b
on organized crime and drug trafficking, 76b
on pacing institutional transformation, 165b
on prioritizing investment in citizen security and justice
reforms, 273b
on regional initiatives and norms and standards, 38 (feature),
234b, 289b
on security, justice, and jobs, 148b
on South African transition, 115b
on uneven international support in West Africa, 208b
WDR framework (2011), 45–48
as roadmap for WDR report, 46–47t
spiral of, repeated cycles to bolster institutional resilience, 45f,
46, 103–4, 103f
theories of violence prevention and, 105b, 289
weak institutions
as factor in repeated cycles of violence, 10, 84–89, 85b, 89f
vulnerability to external stress, 101–3
wealth-sharing arrangements, 127
Weingast, Barry, 86, 105b
Weinstein, Jeremy, 141n49
West Africa
anti-drug initiatives, 44n99, 285
corruption, 34
coups d’état and failure of local mechanisms to resolve, 16
cross-border cooperation on trafficking and economic
integration, 35
cross-border violence, 67 (feature)
donor support to social and poverty reduction programs in
countries with recent coups d’état, 44n105
drug trafficking, 10, 34, 56b, 57, 76b, 285
instability and political violence, 56b
international support in post-conflict phase, 184, 184f
organized crime, 67 (feature)
traditional community meetings, 252

384

INDEX

West Africa (continued)
trafficking and economic integration initiatives, 284
on uneven international support in, 208b
West Africa Coast Initiative (WACI), 44n99
West Africa Telecommunications Regulatory Agreement, 236b
West Bank and Gaza
Facility for New Market Development (FNMD), 176n68
foreign troops and security stresses, 218
international aid for, 183, 212n79
multidonor trust funds for, 202, 212n79
Palestinian security forces, 149
WFP (World Food Programme), 30, 192
WGI. See Worldwide Governance Indicators
“whole-of-government” and “whole-of-systems” initiatives, 25,
185, 209nn12–13, 270
Wilkinson, Steven I., 178n112
Wimmer, Andreas, 81
wishful thinking, 110, 110b
women
economic empowerment of, 19, 163–64, 163b, 258
equality for, 168–69, 170b, 177n98, 258
peace accords requiring, 209n29
international approaches to coalition building excluding, 188
political reform, participation in, 123–24
security tasks, participation in, 151–52, 174n25, 188, 258
as victims of violence, 60, 175n35
women’s courts, 155–56
World Bank
Aceh Reintegration and Livelihood Survey, 138 (feature)
anti-corruption initiatives, 227b, 229
collaboration with UN peacekeeping missions, 271
Country Policy and Institutional Assessment (CPIA)
frameworks, 87b, 95n65
Department of Institutional Integrity, 227, 227b
diplomatic support for negotiations, 186
duration of aid for post-conflict countries, 193
Environmental, Health and Safety General Guidelines, 292n19
on foreign investment in land, 231
imprimatur of good financial practice from, 188
indicators of institutional strength used by, 85
on labor-intensive programs in low- and middle-income
countries, 161

land-use issues, 231, 232, 232b
legal and judicial issues, support for, 199
Liberia and planning for transition, 206 (feature)
publication of cost estimates for projects, 198b
public financial management (PFM) reviews, 174n14
rapid response to crisis and emergencies, 208n10
regional lending by, 25
road maintenance in Liberia, 132b
South-South facilities, 197
Statebuilding and Peacebuilding Fund (SPF), 192
World Bank Group’s Enterprise Surveys, 160
World Bank/IMF Heavily Indebted Poor Countries initiative, 206
(feature)
World Bank Institute Rule of Law rating (2008), 235
World Bank/UN Conference on Trade and Development
(UNCTAD)/Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO)
initiative, 34
World Development Indicators 2010, 341
World Development Report (2009), 234
World Development Report 2007: Development and the Next
Generation, 78
World Food Programme (WFP), 30, 192
World Health Organization (WHO), 30
Worldwide Governance Indicators (WGI), 78, 85b, 95n65
Wu Jianmin, 146b
Wunlit Covenant (Sudan), 123

Y
Yemen, conflicts within, 55, 68 (feature)
Yeo, George, 14, 122b, 148b
YouthBuild International, 162
youth population, 339
youth unemployment, 6, 30, 79, 274

Z
Zemun gang (Balkans), 67 (feature)
Zimbabwe
evidence of deteriorating situation in, 186
in-kind support from bilateral donor for, 202
travel restrictions imposed by EU on, 189
Zoellick, Robert B., xii

ECO-AUDIT

Environmental Benefits Statement
The World Bank is committed to preserving endangered forests and natural
resources. The Office of the Publisher
has chosen to print World Development
Report 2011 on recycled paper with 50
percent postconsumer fiber in accordance
with the recommended standards for paper
usage set by the Green Press Initiative, a
nonprofit program supporting publishers
in using fiber that is not sourced from
endangered forests. For more information,
visit www.greenpressinitiative.org.

Saved:
• 284 trees
• 10 million Btu of total
energy
• 28,900 pounds of net
greenhouse gases
• 130,319 gallons of
wastewater
• 8,261 pounds of
solid waste

With more than 1.5 billion people living in countries affected by conflict, the
World Development Report 2011 (WDR) looks into the changing nature of violence
in the 21st century. Interstate and civil wars characterized violent conflict in the
last century; more pronounced today is violence linked to local disputes, political
repression, and organized crime. The Report underlines the negative impact of
persistent conflict on a country’s or a region’s development prospects, and notes
that no low-income, conflict-affected state has yet achieved a single Millennium
Development Goal.
The risk of major violence is greatest when high levels of stress combine with
weak and illegitimate national institutions. Societies are vulnerable when their
institutions are unable to protect citizens from abuse, or to provide equitable
access to justice and to economic opportunity. These vulnerabilities are exacerbated in countries with high youth unemployment, growing income inequality,
and perceptible injustice. Externally driven events such as infiltration by foreign
combatants, the presence of trafficking networks, or economic shocks add to the
stresses that can provoke violence.
The WDR 2011 draws on the experiences of countries that have successfully
managed to transition away from repetitive violence, pointing to a specific
need to prioritize actions that build confidence between states and citizens,
and develop institutions that can provide security, justice, and jobs. Government
capacity is central, but technical competence alone is insufficient: institutions and
programs must be accountable to their citizens if they are to acquire legitimacy.
Impunity, corruption, and human rights abuses undermine confidence between
states and citizens and increase the risks of violence. Building resilient institutions
occurs in multiple transitions over a generation, and does not mean converging
on Western institutional models.
The WDR 2011 draws together lessons from national reformers escaping from
repetitive cycles of violence. It advocates a greater focus on continuous
preventive action, balancing a sometimes excessive concentration on postconflict reconstruction. The Report is based on new research, case studies,
and extensive consultations with leaders and other actors throughout the
world. It proposes a toolkit of options for addressing violence that can be
adapted to local contexts, as well as new directions for international policy
intended to improve support for national reformers and to tackle stresses that
emanate from global or regional trends beyond any one country’s control.

ISBN 978-0-8213-8439-8

SKU 18439

