Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

Public Disclosure Authorized

32204

world development report

2006

Equity and Development

2006

world development report

Equity and Development

2006

world development report

Equity and Development

A copublication of The World Bank
and Oxford University Press

©2005 The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development / The World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washington DC 20433
Telephone: 202-473-1000
Internet: www.worldbank.org
E-mail: feedback@worldbank.org
All rights reserved
1 2 3 4 08 07 06 05
A copublication of The World Bank and Oxford University Press.
Oxford University Press
198 Madison Avenue
New York NY 10016
This volume is a product of the staff of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development / The World Bank. The findings, interpretations, and conclusions expressed in this
paper do not necessarily reflect the views of the Executive Directors of The World Bank or the
governments they represent.
The World Bank does not guarantee the accuracy of the data included in this work. The
boundaries, colors, denominations, and other information shown on any map in this work do
not imply any judgement on the part of The World Bank concerning the legal status of any territory or the endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
Rights and Permissions
The material in this publication is copyrighted. Copying and/or transmitting portions or all of
this work without permission may be a violation of applicable law. The International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development / The World Bank encourages dissemination of its work and
will normally grant permission to reproduce portions of the work promptly.
For permission to photocopy or reprint any part of this work, please send a request with
complete information to the Copyright Clearance Center Inc., 222 Rosewood Drive, Danvers,
MA 01923, USA; telephone: 978-750-8400; fax: 978-750-4470; Internet: www.copyright.com.
All other queries on rights and licenses, including subsidiary rights, should be addressed to
the Office of the Publisher, The World Bank, 1818 H Street, NW, Washington, DC 20433, USA;
fax: 202-522-2422; e-mail: pubrights@worldbank.org.
ISBN-10: 0-8213-6249-6
ISBN-13: 978-0-8213-6249-5
ISSN: 0163-5085
eISBN: 0-8213-6250-X
DOI: 10.1596/978-0-8213-6249-5
Cover image: Dream of a Sunday Afternoon in Alameda Park 1947–48 (fresco) by Diego Rivera.
The mural is located in Museo Mural Diego Rivera, Mexico City. Reproduction authorized
by the Instituto Nacional de Bellas Artes y Literatura–Mexico; Copyright © Photograph by
Francisco Kochen.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data has been applied for.

Contents

Foreword
xi
Acknowledgments
x iii
Abbreviations and Data Notes

Overview

x iv

1

Inequity within and across nations
4
Why does equity matter for development?
7
Leveling the economic and political playing fields

1 Introduction

9

18

Equity and inequality of opportunity: the basic concepts
Inequality traps
20
A brief preview of the Report
23

18

Part I

Inequity within and across countries
focus 1 on Palanpur

25

26

2 Inequity within countries: individuals and groups
Inequalities in health
29
Inequalities in education
34
Economic inequalities
36
The relationship between group differences and inequality
Agency and equity: inequalities of power
48
The inequality trap for women
51

3 Equity from a global perspective
Examples and concepts
55
Global inequalities in health
56
Global inequalities in education
60
Global inequalities in income and expenditure

28

43

55

62
v

vi

CONTENTS

Global inequalities in power
A glimpse of the future
68

focus 2 on empowerment

66

70

Part II

Why does equity matter?
4 Equity and well-being

73

76

Ethical and philosophical approaches to equity
Equity and legal institutions
78
People prefer fairness
80
Income inequality and poverty reduction
84

5 Inequality and investment

89

Markets, wealth, status, and investment behavior
The evidence on underinvestment
96
Inequalities and investment
101

focus 3 on Spain

76

89

106

6 Equity, institutions, and the development process

107

The distribution of power and institutional quality:
circles vicious and virtuous
107
Institutions and political inequality matter for development:
historical evidence
109
Institutions and political inequality matter for development:
contemporary evidence
113
Transitions to more equitable institutions
118
Conclusion
124

focus 4 on Indonesia

126

Part III

Leveling the economic and political
playing fields
129
7 Human capacities

132

Early childhood development: a better start in life
132
Basic education: expanding opportunities to learn
135
Toward better health for all
141
Social protection: managing risk and providing social assistance
Summary
155

148

Contents

8 Justice, land, and infrastructure

156

Building equitable justice systems
156
Toward greater equity in access to land
162
Providing infrastructure equitably
168
Summary
175

focus 5 on taxation

176

9 Markets and the macroeconomy

178

How markets relate to equity
178
Achieving equity and efficiency in financial markets
179
Achieving equity and efficiency in labor markets
185
Product markets and trade reform
193
Macroeconomic management and equity
198

focus 6 on regional inequality

204

10 Achieving greater global equity

206

Making global markets work more equitably
207
Providing development assistance to help build endowments
Transitions to greater equity
221
Summary
223

focus 7 on drug access

Epilogue

224

226

Bibliographic note
Endnotes

231

233

References

247

Selected Indicators
Measuring Equity

275
277

Selected world development indicators
Index

309

289

218

vii

CONTENTS

viii

Boxes
2.1 Unequal opportunities persist across generations
in Brazil
29

7.8 Better maternal health in Malaysia and Sri Lanka

2.2 Unequal assets, unequal opportunities: AIDS orphans in
Southern Africa
33
2.3 Health improvements and greater health equity
in Peru
34
2.4 Child test scores in Ecuador: the role of wealth, parental
education, and place of residence
35
2.5 Beware of intercountry comparisons of inequality!

38

2.6 Revisiting the Kuznets hypothesis for economic growth and
inequality
44
2.7 Inequitable agencies and institutions in Pakistan

48

2.8 Legacies of discrimination and the reproduction
of inequalities and poverty among the Batwa
in Uganda
49
2.9 Sex ratios and “missing women”

144

7.9 Mobilizing support for universal coverage
in Thailand
146
7.10 Public works programs: key issues

152

7.11 Africa’s orphans and public action

155

8.1 Increasing legal literacy and public awareness:
“My Rights” on Armenian public television

157

8.2 Affirmative action in India and the United States

158

8.3 State frameworks and customary institutions
in South Africa
160
8.4 The impact of legal aid in Ecuador

160

8.5 Bogota, Colombia: civic culture program

161

8.6 Land reform in South Africa: picking up steam

164

8.7 Clarifying how customary rights fit with
formal systems
166

51

8.8 Land and output tax combinations

3.1 Three competing concepts of inequality: global,
international, and intercountry
57

8.9 Lagging infrastructure in Africa

168
170

8.10 The distributional impact of infrastructure privatization in
Latin America: a mixed bag
171

4.1 A simple representation of different concepts
of equity
78
4.2 Capuchin monkeys don’t like inequity either . . .

82

4.3 Worker perceptions of unfairness, product quality, and
consumer safety
83

8.11 The pro-poor agenda for urban water in Senegal

173

8.12 Addressing accountability and transparency in
telecommunications in Brazil and Peru
174

6.1 Banking in the nineteenth century, Mexico and the United
States
109

9.1 Markets and development: policy, equity, and social welfare
in China
180

6.2 Growth with poor institutions does not last

9.2 Too much and too little regulation: Russia before and after
the transition
182

6.3 Polarization, conflict, and growth

113

118

9.3 Organizing in the informal economy

6.4 Aiding equitable growth in early modern Britain:
the role of the Poor Laws
120

9.4 Employment protection legislation

190
191

7.1 ECD programs are an essential ingredient for the
attainment of education for all
134

9.5 Two cases of labor market reform: One comprehensive,
one partial
192

7.2 School fees—an instrument of exclusion
or accountability?
137

9.6 Did the Russian 1998 crisis have equitable
consequences?
201

7.3 Desegregating Roma schools in Bulgaria:
the Vidin model
138

10.1 International law, globalization, and equity

10.2 Making migrant worker schemes more development
friendly
210

7.4 Remedying education: the Balsakhi program
in India
140
7.5 School vouchers: efficient and equitable?
7.6 Working with mothers to treat malaria

207

10.3 Cotton subsidies are huge—and tenacious
141

212

10.4 Will improved working conditions in Cambodia’s textile
industry survive the end of the quota system?
214

142

10.5 Expanding access to antiretroviral drugs
in South Africa
215

7.7 Poor people and ethnic minorities receive
lower-quality care
143

Figures
1 Wealth matters for the immunization of children
2 Opportunities are determined early

5

6

3 Life expectancy improved and became more equal—until
the onset of the AIDS crisis
6

4 A long-run diverging trend in income inequality begins to
reverse because of growth in China and India
7
5 Children’s performance differs when their caste is made
salient
8

Contents

6 Catching up through early interventions

11

7 Better to be close to economic opportunities

3.11 Absolute poverty declined globally, but not in
every region
66

15

1.1 The interaction of political, economic, and sociocultural
inequalities
20

3.12 There is no one-to-one relationship between voice and
income
67

2.1 Infant mortality varies across countries but also by mother’s
education within countries
30

4.1 The distribution of observed offers in ultimatum
games
80

2.2 Stunting levels of children born in rural versus urban areas
are far from the same
30

4.2 Views on inequality from the World Values Survey

2.3 Access to childhood immunization services depends on
parents’ economic status
31

4.4 . . . and, on average, growth is distribution-neutral

2.4 Stunting and underweight in Cambodia

ix

33

4.3 Growth is the key to poverty reduction . . .

84

85
85

4.5 The national growth incidence curves for Tunisia
1980–1995 and Senegal 1994–2001
86

2.5 Education levels vary across countries, but they also depend
on gender of household head
36

4.6 Greater inequality reduces the power of growth to reduce
poverty
87

2.6 Education levels vary by country and between rural and
urban sectors
37

5.1 In rural Kerala and Tamil Nadu, the rich access most of the
credit and pay relatively low rates
90

2.7 The share of inequality in years of schooling attributable
to differences between males and females has been
declining
37

5.2 Children’s performance differs when their caste is made
public
96

2.8 Market capitalization controlled by the top 10 families in
selected countries, 1996
38
2.9 Africa and Latin America have the world’s highest levels of
inequality
39
2.10 Between-group inequality decompositions: social group of
the household head
40
2.11 Between-group inequality decompositions: education of the
household head
41
2.12 Location, education, and social groups can make a
difference: regressions of total inequality on shares of
between-group inequality of different household
characteristics
43
2.13 Women work longer hours than do men

53

3.1 Vanishing twin peaks in life expectancy at birth

58

3.2 Life expectancy is highly correlated with income,
particularly in poor countries
59
3.3 The distribution of years of schooling improved greatly in
the second half of the twentieth century
60
3.4 Mean years of schooling increased while inequality declined
across birth cohorts
60

5.3 Returns to capital vary with firm size: evidence from small
Mexican firms
97
5.4 Inefficient allocation of resources; the example of the
Gounders vs. the outsiders
98
5.5 Average returns for switching to pineapples as an intercrop
can exceed 1,200 percent
98
5.6 Profit-wealth ratios are highest for the smallest
farms
99
6.1 Countries with more secure property rights have higher
average incomes
108
6.2 Low population density in 1500 is associated with a lower
risk of expropriation today
110
6.3 Worse environments for European settlers are associated
with worse institutions today
110
6.4 A worse environment for settlers is associated with fewer
constraints on the executive at independence
111
6.5 Constraints on the executive are greater in Mauritius than
in Guyana
116
6.6 GDP per capita is rising in Mauritius, not
in Guyana
116
6.7 Inequality in Britain began to fall around 1870

121

3.5 Gender disparities in years of schooling declined but
remained significant in some regions
61

7.1 Children from better-off households have a big edge in
cognitive abilities by age three
133

3.6 Incomes range broadly across countries
and individuals
62

7.2 Early childhood interventions are good investments

3.7 Since 1950, intercountry inequality increased while
international inequality declined
63
3.8 Unlike relative inequality, absolute inequality has been
steadily increasing
63
3.9 The inequality decline between countries was neutralized by
increases within countries
64
3.10 Inequality between countries became much more
important over the long run
65

7.3 Catching up through early intervention

133

134

7.4 Boosting enrollments is not enough to overcome the
learning gap
139
7.5 Almost all countries spend more on social insurance than
on social assistance (percent of GDP)
149
8.1 Unequal initial land distributions go together with slower
economic growth
163
8.2 Title to land increases investment and access to
credit
165

CONTENTS

x

8.3 Poor families did not benefit from an expansion of access in
Africa
172

9.4 It’s better for household welfare to be close to economic
opportunities
195

8.4 Poorer households have lower-quality water and pay more
in Niger
173

9.5 Weaker institutions are associated with macroeconomic
volatility and crises
199

9.1 Poland’s stock market started slowly but then surpassed the
Czech Republic’s
185

9.6 Labor shares fall during crises and don’t fully recover
afterward
200

9.2 Patterns of employment and unemployment vary widely
across African countries
187

9.7 In Argentina, the wealthy had a way out during
the crisis
201

9.3 Different labor market institutional setups can yield equally
good productivity growth paths: Scandinavia versus the
United States
188

10.1 Wage differentials are substantially larger today than at the
end of the nineteenth century
208
10.2 More subsidies than aid

220

Tables
2.1 Decomposition of inequality between and within
communities
42

9.2 Financial policy and institutions are often captured by the
few: case study evidence
181

2.2 Percentage of women who have ever experienced physical or
sexual violence by an intimate partner
54

9.3 Fiscal costs of selected banking crises

3.1 Increases in life expectancy at birth slowed down
dramatically in the 1990s
58

200

10.1 ODA as a share of GNI, 2002, 2003, and simulation
for 2006
220
A1 Poverty

278

3.2 Mean years of schooling increased continuously while
inequality declined
61

A2 Income/consumption inequality measures

3.3 Mobility matrix in absolute country per capita incomes,
1980 to 2002
66

A4 Education

A3 Health

284

Classification of economies by region and income

5.1 The effect of income shocks on consumption,
Côte d’Ivoire
92

1 Key indicators of development

5.2 Farm size productivity differences, selected countries

2 Poverty and income distribution

7.1 Examples of social protection programs

150

7.2 Targeting performance of conditional
transfer schemes
153
9.1 Two pathologies in the interaction between equity and
growth
179

280

282

99

3 Economic activity
4 Trade, aid, and finance

292
294

296
298

5 Key indicators for other economies

300

291

Foreword

Poverty reduction comes about through individuals, families and communities taking advantage of the opportunities available to them by working, investing and innovating to better their
lives. But we live in a world of extraordinary inequalities in opportunity, both within and across
countries. Even the basic opportunity for life itself is disparately distributed: whereas less than
half of one percent of children born in Sweden die before their first birthday, this is the case for
close to 15% of all children born in Mozambique. Within El Salvador, the infant mortality rate
is 2% for children of educated mothers, but 10% for those whose mothers have no schooling.
In Eritrea, immunization coverage is close to 100% for children in the richest fifth of the population, but only 50% for the bottom fifth.
These children can not be blamed for the circumstances into which they are born, yet their
lives—and their ability to contribute to the development of their nations—are powerfully
shaped by them. That is why the World Development Report 2006, the twenty-eighth in this
annual series, looks at the role of equity in the process of development. Equity is defined in
terms of two basic principles. The first is equal opportunities: that a person’s life achievements
should be determined primarily by his or her talents and efforts, rather than by pre-determined
circumstances such as race, gender, social or family background. The second principle is the
avoidance of deprivation in outcomes, particularly in health, education and consumption levels.
For many if not most people, equity is of intrinsic importance as a development goal in its
own right. But this report goes further, by presenting persuasive evidence that a broad sharing
of economic and political opportunities is also instrumental for economic growth and development. This is for economic reasons, because greater equity can lead to a fuller and more efficient use of a nation’s resources. It is also for political and institutional reasons: excessive
inequalities in power and influence can lead to political, social and economic institutions that
are less conducive to long-term growth. Few today’s prosperous societies, if any, developed by
excluding the majority of their people from economic and political opportunities.
The implication of this message for the work of the World Bank and others in the development community is that a focus on equity should be a central concern in the design and implementation of policy for development and growth. This insight needs to be integrated into both
analytical and operational work on core areas of development design, including the role and
functioning of markets. Public action should seek to expand the opportunity sets of those who,
in the absence of policy interventions, have the least resources, voice and capabilities. It should
do so in a manner that respects and enhances individual freedoms, as well as the role of markets
in allocating resources.
Equity in the international arena is also a central concern, and can play a powerful complementary role to domestic action. In a globally interconnected world, leveling the international
playing fields, both economically and politically, will help domestic efforts to combine equity
with efficiency and growth.
In my view, the evidence that equity and economic efficiency as well as growth are complementary in the long run helps to integrate the main two components of the World Bank’s
poverty reduction strategy. The focus on broadening opportunities strongly supports the first
xi

xii

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2005

pillar of the Bank’s development strategy, namely enhancing the investment climate for everyone. Together with the interdependence between the economic and political dimensions of
development it also reinforces the importance of empowerment. This report shows that the
two pillars are not independent from each other in supporting development, but instead are
intricately linked with one another. It is my hope that this report will have a real influence in the
way that we and our development partners understand, design and implement development
policies.

Paul D. Wolfowitz
President
The World Bank

Acknowledgments

This Report has been prepared by a core team led by Francisco H.G. Ferreira and Michael Walton, and comprising Tamar Manuelyan Atinc, Abhijit Banerjee, Peter Lanjouw, Marta Menéndez, Berk Özler, Giovanna Prennushi, Vijayendra Rao, James Robinson, and Michael Woolcock.
Important additional contributions were made by Anthony Bebbington, Stijn Claessens, Margaret Ellen Grosh, Karla Hoff, Jean O. Lanjouw, Xubei Lou, Ana Revenga, Caroline Sage, Mark
Sundberg, and Peter Timmer. The team was assisted by Maria Caridad Araujo, Andrew Beath,
Ximena del Carpio, Celine Ferre, Thomas Haven, Claudio E. Montenegro, and Jeffery C. Tanner. The work was conducted under the general guidance of François Bourguignon.
Extensive and excellent advice was received from Anthony B. Atkinson, Angus Deaton, Naila
Kabeer, Martin Ravallion, and Amartya Sen, to whom the team is grateful without implication.
Many others inside and outside the World Bank also provided helpful comments; their names
are listed in the Bibliographical Note. The Development Data Group contributed to the data
appendix and was responsible for the Selected World Development Indicators. Much of the
background research was supported by a multidonor programmatic trust fund, the Knowledge
for Change Program, funded by Canada, the European Community, Finland, Norway, Sweden,
Switzerland, and the United Kingdom.
The team undertook a wide range of consultations for this Report, which included workshops in Amsterdam, Beirut, Berlin, Cairo, Dakar, Geneva, Helsinki, Hyderabad, London,
Milan, Nairobi, New Delhi, Oslo, Ottawa, Paris, Rio de Janeiro, Stockholm, Tokyo, Venice, and
Washington, D.C.; videoconferences with sites in Bogota, Buenos Aires, Mexico City, and
Tokyo; and an on-line discussion of the draft Report. The team wishes to thank participants in
these workshops, videoconferences, and discussions, which included researchers, government
officials, and staff of nongovernmental and private-sector organizations.
Rebecca Sugui served as executive assistant to the team, Ofelia Valladolid as program assistant, Madhur Arora and Jason Victor as team assistants. Evangeline Santo Domingo served as
resource management assistant.
Bruce Ross-Larson was the principal editor. Book design, editing, and production were
coordinated by the World Bank’s Office of the Publisher under the supervision of Susan
Graham and Monika Lynde.

xiii

Abbreviations and Data Notes

Abbreviations
The following abbreviations are used in this Report:
AA
AIDS
CCP
DAC
DHS
ECD
EPL
FDI
GDP
GHG
GNI
HIPC
HIV
ICOR
ICRISAT
IDA
ILO
IMF
IMS
KDP
MDG
MMM
MSF
NAFTA

Affirmative action
Acquired immune deficiency syndrome
Chinese Communist Party
Development Assistance Committee
Demographic and Health Survey
Early child development
Employment protection legislation
Foreign direct investment
Gross domestic product
Greenhouse gas
Gross national income
Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
Human immunodeficiency virus
Incremental Capital-Output Ratio
International Crop Research Institute
in the Semi-Arid Tropics
International Development Association
International Labour Organization
International Monetary Fund
Intercontinental Marketing Services
Kecamatan Development Project
Millennium Development Goals
Movement Militant Mauricien
Médecins Sans Frontières
North American Free Trade Agreement

Data notes
The countries included in regional and income groupings in
this Report are listed in the Classification of Economies table
at the beginning of the Selected World Development Indicators. Income classifications are based on GNP per capita;
thresholds for income classifications in this edition may be
found in the Introduction to Selected World Development
Indicators. Group averages reported in the figures and tables
are unweighted averages of the countries in the group, unless
noted to the contrary.
xiv

NGO
ODA
OECD

Nongovernmental organization
Official development assistance
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development
PPA
Participatory Poverty Assessment
PPP
Purchasing-power parity
PROMESA Promoción y Mejoramiento de la Salud
SMEs
Small and medium enterprises
TAC
Treatment Action Campaign
TIMSS
Third International Mathematics and Science
Study
TRIPs
Trade-related aspects of intellectual property
rights
U.N.
United Nations
UNCTAD United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development
UNDP
United Nations Development Programme
UNAIDS Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS
UNICEF United Nations International Children’s
Emergency Fund
VAT
Value added tax
WHO
World Health Organization
WTO
World Trade Organization
WWII
World War II

The use of the word countries to refer to economies implies
no judgment by the World Bank about the legal or other status
of a territory. The term developing countries includes low- and
middle-income economies and thus may include economies in
transition from central planning, as a matter of convenience.
The term advanced countries may be used as a matter of convenience to denote high-income economies.
Dollar figures are current U.S. dollars, unless otherwise
specified. Billion means 1,000 million; trillion means 1,000 billion.

Overview

Consider two South African children born on
the same day in 2000. Nthabiseng is black,
born to a poor family in a rural area in the
Eastern Cape province, about 700 kilometers
from Cape Town. Her mother had no formal
schooling. Pieter is white, born to a wealthy
family in Cape Town. His mother completed
a college education at the nearby prestigious
Stellenbosch University.
On the day of their birth, Nthabiseng and
Pieter could hardly be held responsible for
their family circumstances: their race, their
parents’ income and education, their urban
or rural location, or indeed their sex. Yet
statistics suggest that those predetermined
background variables will make a major difference for the lives they lead. Nthabiseng
has a 7.2 percent chance of dying in the first
year of her life, more than twice Pieter’s 3
percent. Pieter can look forward to 68 years
of life, Nthabiseng to 50. Pieter can expect to
complete 12 years of formal schooling,
Nthabiseng less than 1 year.1 Nthabiseng is
likely to be considerably poorer than Pieter
throughout her life.2 Growing up, she is less
likely to have access to clean water and sanitation, or to good schools. So the opportunities these two children face to reach their full
human potential are vastly different from
the outset, through no fault of their own.
Such disparities in opportunity translate
into different abilities to contribute to
South Africa’s development. Nthabiseng’s
health at birth may have been poorer, owing
to the poorer nutrition of her mother during her pregnancy. By virtue of their gender
socialization, their geographic location, and
their access to schools, Pieter is much more
likely to acquire an education that will
enable him to put his innate talents to full
use. Even if at age 25, and despite the odds,
Nthabiseng manages to come up with a

great business idea (such as an innovation
to increase agricultural production), she
would find it much harder to persuade a
bank to lend her money at a reasonable
interest rate. Pieter, having a similarly
bright idea (say, on how to design an
improved version of promising software),
would likely find it easier to obtain credit,
with both a college diploma and quite possibly some collateral. With the transition to
democracy in South Africa, Nthabiseng is
able to vote and thus indirectly shape the
policy of her government, something
denied to blacks under apartheid. But the
legacy of apartheid’s unequal opportunities
and political power will remain for some
time to come. It is a long road from such a
(fundamental) political change to changes
in economic and social conditions.
As striking as the differences in life
chances are between Pieter and Nthabiseng
in South Africa, they are dwarfed by the
disparities between average South Africans
and citizens of more developed countries.
Consider the cards dealt to Sven—born on
that same day to an average Swedish
household. His chances of dying in the
first year of life are very small (0.3 percent)
and he can expect to live to the age of 80, 12
years longer than Pieter, and 30 years more
than Nthabiseng. He is likely to complete
11.4 years of schooling—5 years more than
the average South African. These differences
in the quantity of schooling are compounded by differences in quality: in the
eighth grade, Sven can expect to obtain a
score of 500 on an internationally comparable math test, while the average South
African student will get a score of only
264—more than two standard deviations
below the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) median.
1

2

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Nthabiseng most likely will never reach that
grade and so will not take the test.3
These differences in life chances across
nationality, race, gender, and social groups
will strike many readers as fundamentally
unfair. They are also likely to lead to wasted
human potential and thus to missed development opportunities. That is why World
Development Report 2006 analyzes the relationship between equity and development.
By equity we mean that individuals
should have equal opportunities to pursue a
life of their choosing and be spared from
extreme deprivation in outcomes. The main
message is that equity is complementary, in
some fundamental respects, to the pursuit
of long-term prosperity. Institutions and
policies that promote a level playing field—
where all members of society have similar
chances to become socially active, politically
influential, and economically productive—
contribute to sustainable growth and development. Greater equity is thus doubly good
for poverty reduction: through potential
beneficial effects on aggregate long-run
development and through greater opportunities for poorer groups within any society.
The complementarities between equity
and prosperity arise for two broad sets of
reasons. First, there are many market failures in developing countries, notably in the
markets for credit, insurance, land, and
human capital. As a result, resources may
not flow where returns are highest. For
example, some highly capable children, like
Nthabiseng, may fail to complete primary
schooling, while others, who are less able,
may finish university. Farmers may work
harder on plots they own than on those
they sharecrop. Some efficient developingcountry producers of agricultural commodities and textiles are shut out of some
OECD markets, and poor unskilled workers
have highly restricted opportunities to
migrate to work in richer countries.
When markets are missing or imperfect,
the distributions of wealth and power affect
the allocation of investment opportunities.
Correcting the market failures is the ideal
response; where this is not feasible, or far
too costly, some forms of redistribution—
of access to services, assets, or political
influence—can increase economic efficiency.

The second set of reasons why equity and
long-term prosperity can be complementary
arises from the fact that high levels of
economic and political inequality tend to
lead to economic institutions and social
arrangements that systematically favor the
interests of those with more influence. Such
inequitable institutions can generate economic costs. When personal and property
rights are enforced only selectively, when
budgetary allocations benefit mainly the
politically influential, and when the distribution of public services favors the wealthy,
both middle and poorer groups end up with
unexploited talent. Society, as a whole, is
then likely to be more inefficient and to miss
out on opportunities for innovation and
investment. At the global level, when developing countries have little or no voice in
global governance, the rules can be inappropriate and costly for poorer countries.
These adverse effects of unequal opportunities and political power on development are
all the more damaging because economic,
political, and social inequalities tend to reproduce themselves over time and across generations. We call such phenomena “inequality
traps.” Disadvantaged children from families
at the bottom of the wealth distribution do
not have the same opportunities as children
from wealthier families to receive quality
education. So these disadvantaged children
can expect to earn less as adults. Because the
poor have less voice in the political process,
they—like their parents—will be less able to
influence spending decisions to improve
public schools for their children. And the
cycle of underachievement continues.
The distribution of wealth is closely correlated with social distinctions that stratify people, communities, and nations into groups
that dominate and those that are dominated.
These patterns of domination persist because
economic and social differences are reinforced by the overt and covert use of power.
Elites protect their interests in subtle ways, by
exclusionary practices in marriage and kinship systems, for instance, and in ways that
are less subtle, such as aggressive political
manipulation or the explicit use of violence.
Such overlapping political, social, cultural,
and economic inequalities stifle mobility.
They are hard to break because they are so

Overview

closely tied to the ordinary business of life.
They are perpetuated by the elite, and often
internalized by the marginalized or oppressed
groups, making it difficult for the poor to
find their way out of poverty. Inequality traps
can thus be rather stable, tending to persist
over generations.
The report documents the persistence of
these inequality traps by highlighting the
interaction between different forms of inequality. It presents evidence that the inequality of opportunity that arises is wasteful and
inimical to sustainable development and
poverty reduction. It also derives policy
implications that center on the broad concept
of leveling the playing field—both politically
and economically and in the domestic and
the global arenas. If the opportunities faced
by children like Nthabiseng are so much
more limited than those faced by children like
Pieter or Sven, and if this hurts development
progress in the aggregate, then public action
has a legitimate role in seeking to broaden the
opportunities of those who face the most
limited choices.
Three considerations are important at
the outset. First, while more even playing
fields are likely to lead to lower observed
inequalities in educational attainment,
health status, and incomes, the policy aim is
not equality in outcomes. Indeed, even with
genuine equality of opportunities, one would
always expect to observe some differences in
outcomes owing to differences in preferences,
talents, effort, and luck.4 This is consistent
with the important role of income differences
in providing incentives to invest in education
and physical capital, to work, and to take
risks. Of course outcomes matter, but we are
concerned with them mainly for their influence on absolute deprivation and their role in
shaping opportunities.
Second, a concern with equality of opportunity implies that public action should focus
on the distributions of assets, economic
opportunities, and political voice, rather than
directly on inequality in incomes. Policies can
contribute to the move from an “inequality
trap” to a virtuous circle of equity and growth
by leveling the playing field—through greater
investment in the human resources of the
poorest; greater and more equal access to
public services and information; guarantees

on property rights for all; and greater fairness in markets. But policies to level the economic playing field face big challenges.
There is unequal capacity to influence the
policy agenda: the interests of the disenfranchised may never be voiced or represented.
And when policies challenge privileges,
powerful groups may seek to block reforms.
Thus, equitable policies are more likely to be
successful when leveling the economic playing field is accompanied by similar efforts to
level the domestic political playing field and
introduce greater fairness in global governance.
Third, there may be various short-run,
policy-level tradeoffs between equity and efficiency. These are well recognized and extensively documented. The point is that the
(often implicit) cost-benefit calculus that
policymakers use to assess the merits of various policies too often ignores the long-term,
hard-to-measure but real benefits of greater
equity. Greater equity implies more efficient
economic functioning, reduced conflict,
greater trust, and better institutions, with
dynamic benefits for investment and growth.
To the extent that such benefits are ignored,
policymakers may end up choosing too little
equity.
By the same token, however, those interested in greater equity must not ignore the
short-term tradeoffs. If individual incentives are blunted by income redistribution
schemes that tax investment and production too steeply, the result will be less innovation, less investment, and less growth.
The history of the twentieth century is littered with examples of ill-designed policies
pursued in the name of equity that seriously
harmed—rather than spurred—growth
processes by ignoring individual incentives.
A balance must be sought, taking into
account both the immediate costs to individual incentives and the long-term benefits
of cohesive societies, with inclusive institutions and broad opportunities.
While careful assessment of policy design
in local contexts is always important, equity
considerations need to be brought squarely
into the center of both diagnosis and policy.
This is not intended as a new framework. It
means integrating and extending existing
frameworks: equity is central both to the

3

4

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

investment environment and to the agenda
of empowerment, working through the
impact on institutions and specific policy
designs. Some may value equity for its own
sake, others primarily for its instrumental
role in reducing absolute poverty, the World
Bank’s mission.
This report recognizes the intrinsic value
of equity but aims primarily to document
how a focus on equity matters for long-run
development. It has three parts.
• Part I considers the evidence on inequality of opportunity, within and across
countries. Some attempts to quantify
inequality of opportunity are reviewed
but, more generally, we rely on evidence
of highly unequal outcomes across
groups defined by predetermined circumstances—such as gender, race, family background, or country of birth—as
markers for unequal opportunities.
• Part II asks why equity matters. It discusses the two channels of impact (the
effects of unequal opportunities when
markets are imperfect, and the consequences of inequity for the quality of
institutions a society develops) as well as
intrinsic motives.
• Part III asks how public action can level
the political and economic playing fields.
In the domestic arena, it makes the case
for investing in people, expanding access
to justice, land, and infrastructure, and
promoting fairness in markets. In the
international arena, it considers leveling
the playing field in the functioning of
global markets and the rules that govern
them—and the complementary provision of aid to help poor countries and
poor people build greater endowments.
The remainder of this overview provides a
summary of the principal findings.

Inequity within
and across nations
From an equity perspective, the distribution of opportunities matters more than
the distribution of outcomes. But opportunities, which are potentials rather than
actuals, are harder to observe and measure
than outcomes.

Within-country inequities
have many dimensions
Direct quantification of inequality of
opportunity is difficult, but one analysis of
Brazil provides an illustration (chapter 2).
Earnings inequality in 1996 was divided
into one share attributable to four predetermined circumstances that lie beyond the
control of individuals—race, region of
birth, parental education, and paternal
occupation at birth—and a residual share.
These four circumstances account for
around one-quarter of overall differences in
earnings between workers. Arguably, other
determinants of opportunity are equally
predetermined at birth but not included in
this set—for example, gender, family
wealth, or the quality of primary schools.
Because such variables are not included in
the inequality “decomposition,” the results
here can be seen as lower-bound estimates
of inequality of opportunity in Brazil.
Unfortunately, predetermined (and thus
morally irrelevant) circumstances determine much more than just future earnings.
Education and health are of intrinsic value
and affect the capacity of individuals to
engage in economic, social, and political
life. Yet children face substantially different
opportunities to learn and to lead healthy
lives in almost all populations, depending
on asset ownership, geographic location, or
parental education, among others. Consider
how access to a basic package of immunization services differs for the rich and the
poor across countries (figure 1).
There is substantial inequality in access
between, for example, Egypt, where almost
everyone is covered (on the left), and Chad,
where more than 40 percent of children are
excluded (on the right). Yet the disparities
can be as large within some countries as they
are across all nations in the sample. In
Eritrea, for instance, the richest fifth enjoys
almost complete coverage, but almost half of
all children in the poorest fifth are excluded.
Significant gender differences also persist in many parts of the world. In parts of
East and South Asia, notably in certain areas
in rural China and northwest India, the
opportunity to life itself can depend on one
single predetermined characteristic: sex.
These regions have significantly more boy

Overview

Figure 1 Wealth matters for the immunization of children
Percentage not covered
70

60

50

40

Poorest

30

20

10

Wealthiest

E
Jor gypt
dan
Co (*)
lom
b
Rw ia
and
a
So
uth Peru
Afr
ic
Ke a
nya
Ma
law
i
B
Zam razil
bia
Vie (*)
tna
T m
Gu urkey
ate
m
Tan ala
zan
Tur Indo ia
n
km
eni esia
sta
Mo n (*)
roc
c
Gh o
ana
Ph Benin
ilip
Ba pine
ngl
s
ad
Co esh
mo
ro
Bo s
Pa livia
r
Ka
zak agua
y
hst
an
(*)
Y
e
Bu
rkin men
aF
Ca aso
me
ro
Ug on
and
a
Ma India
uri
tan
ia
Ha
iti
Ce
ntr
Tog
al A
fric Ethi o
opi
an
a
R
Ma epub
dag lic
Mo asc
zam ar
biq
u
Gu e
ine
a
Ca Mali
mb
o
Pa dia
kis
ta
Eri n
tre
a
Nig
er
Ch
ad

0

Source: Authors’ own calculations from Demographic Health Survey (DHS) data
Note: * indicates that the poorest quintile have higher access to childhood immunization services than the wealthiest quintile.
The continuous orange line represents the overall percentage of children without access to a basic immunization package in each country,
while the endpoints indicate the percentages for the top and the bottom quintile of the asset ownership distribution.

infants than girls, in part because of sexselective abortion and differential care after
birth. And in many (though not all) parts of
the world, more boys than girls attend
school. The hundreds of millions of disabled children across the developing world
also face very different opportunities than
their able-bodied peers.
These inequities are usually associated
with differences in an individual’s “agency”—
the socioeconomically, culturally, and politically determined ability to shape the world
around oneself. Such differences create
biases in the institutions and rules in favor
of more powerful and privileged groups.
This is seen in realities as diverse as the low
chances for mobility of scheduled castes in
a village in rural India and the frequent
episodes of discrimination against the
Quichua people in Ecuador. Persistent differences in power and status between

groups can become internalized into behaviors, aspirations, and preferences that also
perpetuate inequalities.
Inequalities of opportunity are also
transmitted across generations. The children of poorer and lower-status parents
face inferior chances in education, health,
incomes, and status. This starts early. In
Ecuador, three-year-old children from all
socioeconomic groups have similar test
scores for vocabulary recognition and are
close to a standard international reference
population. But by the time they are five, all
have faltered relative to the international
reference group, except for those in the
richest groups and with the highest levels of
parental education (figure 2). Such pronounced differences in vocabulary recognition between children whose parents had 0
to 5 years of schooling and those whose
parents had 12 or more years are likely to

5

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

6

Figure 2 Opportunities are determined early
Cognitive development for children ages three to five in Ecuador differs markedly across family
backgrounds
Wealthiest and poorest quartiles
Median score

Maternal education
Median score

110

110

100

100

Wealthiest 25%

90

90

80

80

70

Poorest 25th%

12 or more years

0–5 years

70

60

60
40

50
60
Age in months

70

40

50
60
Age in months

70

Source: Paxson and Schady (2005).
Note: Median values of the test of vocabulary recognition (TVIP) score (a measure of vocabulary recognition in Spanish,
standardized against an international norm) are plotted against the child’s age in months. The medians by exact month
of age were smoothed by estimating fan regressions of the median score on age (in months), using a bandwidth of 3.

carry over to their performance once they
enter primary school, and will likely persist
thereafter. Intergenerational immobility is
also observed in rich countries: new evidence from the United States (where the
myth of equal opportunity is strong) finds
high levels of persistence of socioeconomic
status across generations: recent estimates
suggest that it would take five generations
for a family that earned half the national
average income to reach the average.5
Immobility is particularly pronounced for
low-income African Americans.

Global inequities are massive
Figure 3 Life expectancy improved and
became more equal—until the onset
of the AIDS crisis
Population-weighted international
distribution of life expectancy, 1960–2000
0.05

1990
1960

2000

0
27

39

51
63
Years

Source: Schady (2005).

75

87

If unequal opportunities are large within
many countries, they are truly staggering on
a global scale. Chapter 3 shows that crosscountry differences begin with the opportunity for life itself: while 7 of every 1,000
American babies die in the first year of their
lives, 126 of every 1,000 Malian babies do.
Babies who survive, not only in Mali but in
much of Africa and in the poorer countries
of Asia and Latin America, are at much
greater nutritional risk than their counterparts in rich countries. And if they go to
school—more than 400 million adults in
developing countries never did—their
schools are substantially worse than those
attended by children in Europe, Japan, or
the United States. Given lower school qual-

ity, undernutrition, and the earnings a child
can generate by working instead of studying, many children leave school early. The
average person born between 1975 and
1979 in Sub-Saharan Africa has only 5.4
years of schooling. In South Asia, the figure
rises to 6.3 years; in OECD countries, it is
13.4 years.
With such differences in education and
health, compounded by large disparities in
access to infrastructure and other public
services, it is not surprising that opportunities for the consumption of private goods
differ vastly between rich and poor countries. Mean annual consumption expenditures range from Purchasing Power Parity
(PPP) $279 in Nigeria to PPP $17,232 in
Luxembourg. This means that the average
citizen in Luxembourg enjoys monetary
resources 62 times higher than the average
Nigerian. While the average Nigerian may
find it difficult to afford adequately nutritious meals every day, the average citizen of
Luxembourg need not worry too much
about buying the latest generation cell
phone on the market. Because of the much
greater restrictions on the movement of
people between countries than within
countries, these inequalities in outcomes
among countries are likely to be much more
closely associated with inequalities in
opportunities than within countries.
Global inequality trends have varied.
Between 1960 and 1980 there was a pronounced decline in the inequality in life
expectancy across countries, driven by
major increases in the poorest countries in
the world (figure 3). This welcome development was due to the global spread of health
technology and to major public health
efforts in some of the world’s highest mortality areas. Since 1990, however, HIV/AIDS
(predominantly in many African countries)
and a rise in mortality rates in transition
economies (largely in Eastern Europe and
Central Asia) have set back some of the earlier gains. Because of the AIDS crisis, life
expectancy at birth has fallen dramatically
in some of the world’s poorest countries,
sharply increasing the differences between
them and richer societies.
Inequality in access to schooling has also
been falling around the world, within most

Overview

Figure 4 A long-run diverging trend in income
inequality begins to reverse because of growth
in China and India

Why does equity matter
for development?

Mean log deviation
1
0.83
0.8
Global inequality
0.6

0.69
Within-country inequality

0.42

0.50

0.36

0.4
0.37

0.33

0.33

0.2
0.05

Between-country inequality

0
1820 1850 1870 1890 1910 1929 1950 1960 1970 1980 1992
Source: Authors’ manipulation of data from Bourguignon and Morrisson (2002).

countries as well as across them, as average
schooling levels rise in the vast majority of
countries. This too is a welcome development, although concerns over the quality of
schooling provide reasons for guarding
against complacency.
While our primary concern is with
inequality of opportunities, the large differences in income or consumption across
countries surely affect the life chances faced
by children born today in those different
nations. Trends in life expectancy at birth
and years of schooling were converging, at
least until 1990, but a different picture
emerges for income and consumption.
While the recent trends depend greatly on
the specific concept chosen (discussed in
great detail in chapter 3), global income
inequality has steadily increased over the
long run until the onset of rapid economic
growth in China and India in the 1980s
(figure 4).
It is possible to decompose total
inequality across individuals in the world
into differences among countries and differences within countries. Between-country differences were relatively small early in
the nineteenth century, but they came to
account for a larger part of total inequality
toward the end of the twentieth century. If
China and India are excluded, global
inequalities have continued to rise, owing
to the continuing divergence between
most other low-income countries and rich
countries.

Why do these persistent inequalities—
both within and across countries—matter?
The first reason is that the interconnections and resilience of these inequalities
imply that some groups have consistently
inferior opportunities—economic, social,
and political—than their fellow citizens.
Most people feel that such egregious disparities violate a sense of fairness, particularly when the individuals affected can do
little about them (chapter 4). This is consistent with the teachings of much political philosophy and with the international
system of human rights. The core moral
and ethical teachings of the world’s leading religions include a concern for equity,
although many have also been sources of
inequities and historically have been linked
to unequal power structures. There is also
experimental evidence suggesting that
many—but not all—people behave in
ways consistent with a concern for fairness, in addition to caring about how they
fare individually.
Important as these intrinsic reasons are
for caring about inequality of opportunities
and unfair processes, the primary focus of
this report is on the instrumental relationship between equity and development, with
particular emphasis on two channels: the
effects of unequal opportunities when markets are imperfect, and the consequences of
inequity for the quality of institutions a
society develops.6
With imperfect markets, inequalities in
power and wealth translate into unequal
opportunities, leading to wasted productive
potential and to an inefficient allocation of
resources. Markets often work imperfectly
in many countries, whether because of
intrinsic failures—such as those associated
with asymmetric information—or because
of policy-imposed distortions. Microeconomic case studies suggest that an inefficient allocation of resources across productive alternatives is often associated with
differences in wealth or status (chapter 5).
If capital markets worked perfectly, there
would be no relation between investment

7

8

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

and the distribution of wealth: anyone with
a profitable investment opportunity would
be able to either borrow money to finance
it, or to sell equity in a firm set up to undertake it. But capital markets in just about
every country (developed and developing)
are very far from perfect: credit is rationed
across prospective clients, and interest rates
differ considerably across borrowers, and
between lenders and borrowers, in ways
that cannot be linked to default risk or
other economic factors affecting expected
returns to lenders. For example, interest
rates decline with loan size in Kerala and
Tamil Nadu in India, and across trading
groups in Kenya and Zimbabwe, in ways not
explained by risk differences.7 In Mexico,
returns to capital are much higher for the
smallest informal sector firms than for
larger ones.
Land markets also have imperfections
associated with a lack of clear titling, histories of concentrated land ownership, and
imperfect rental markets. In Ghana, lower
security of tenure among women leads to
an inefficiently low frequency of land fallowing and, hence, to progressive declines
in land productivity.
The market for human capital is also
imperfect, because parents make decisions on
Figure 5 Children’s performance differs when their
caste is made salient
Average number of mazes solved, by caste,
in five experimental treatments
8
Piece rate

Tournament

6

4

2

High caste
Low caste

0
Caste
Caste
Caste
Caste
Caste
announced
not announced announced
not
and
announced
announced
segregated
Source: Hoff and Pandey (2004).
Note: The figure depicts the number of mazes correctly completed
by low-caste and high-caste children from a set of Indian villages
in a number of different experiments. The difference between the
first two and the last three columns refers to payouts: whether
children are paid per correct maze completed (piece rate) or only
if they complete the most mazes (tournament).

behalf of their children and because the
expected returns to investment are influenced
by location, contacts, and discrimination—
on grounds of gender, caste, religion, or
race. Discrimination and stereotyping—
mechanisms for the reproduction of inequality between groups—have been found to
lower the self-esteem, effort, and performance of individuals in the groups discriminated against. This reduces their potential for
individual growth and their ability to contribute to the economy.
Striking evidence of the impact of
stereotyping on performance comes from a
recent experiment in India. Children from
different castes were asked to complete simple exercises, such as solving a maze, with
real monetary incentives contingent on performance. The key result of the experiment
is that low-caste children perform on par
with high-caste children when their caste is
not publicly announced by the experimenter but significantly worse when it is
made public (figure 5). If a similar inhibition of talent occurs in the real world, this
implies a loss of potential output owing to
social stereotyping.
Economic and political inequalities are
associated with impaired institutional
development. The second channel through
which inequity affects long-run processes
of development is the shaping of economic
and political institutions (chapter 6). Institutions determine the incentives and constraints people face and provide the context
in which markets function. Different sets of
institutions are the outcome of complex
historical processes that reflect the interests
and structure of political influence of
different individuals and groups in a society. From this perspective, market imperfections may arise not by accident but
because they distribute income or power in
particular ways. In this view, there will be
social conflict over the institutions of
society and incentives for people who control power to shape institutions in ways
that benefit them.
The central argument here is that
unequal power leads to the formation of
institutions that perpetuate inequalities in
power, status, and wealth—and that typi-

Overview

cally are also bad for the investment, innovation, and risk-taking that underpin
long-term growth. Good economic institutions are equitable in a fundamental
way: to prosper, a society must create
incentives for the vast majority of the
population to invest and innovate. But
such an equitable set of economic institutions can emerge only when the distribution of power is not highly unequal and in
situations in which there are constraints
on the exercise of power by officeholders.
Basic patterns in cross-country data and
historical narratives support the view that
countries moving onto institutional paths
that promoted sustained prosperity did so
because the balance of political influence
and power became more equitable.
One example comes from a comparison
of the early institutions and of the longterm development paths of European
colonies in North and South America. The
abundance of unskilled labor prevalent in
the South American colonies—where either
native Americans or imported African
slaves were available in large numbers—
combined with the technology of mining
and large plantation agriculture to provide
the economic base for hierarchical and
extractive societies, in which land ownership and political power were highly concentrated. In North America, by contrast,
similar attempts to introduce hierarchical
structures were foiled by the scarcity of
labor—except where agro-climatic conditions made slavery economically feasible,
such as in the southern region of the United
States. Competition for free labor in the
northern areas of North America led to the
development of less unequal land ownership patterns, a faster expansion of the franchise, and rapid increases in literacy and
basic education. The resulting economic
and political institutions persisted over
time, with positive consequences for longrun economic development.

Leveling the economic
and political playing fields

inequality is objectionable on both intrinsic
and instrumental grounds. It contributes to
economic inefficiency, political conflict, and
institutional frailty. What are the implications for policy, and do they give rise to an
agenda that is different from the poverty
reduction agenda already embraced by the
World Bank, other multilateral institutions,
and many governments?
We argue that an equity lens enhances
the poverty reduction agenda. The poor
generally have less voice, less income, and
less access to services than most other people. When societies become more equitable
in ways that lead to greater opportunities for
all, the poor stand to benefit from a “double
dividend.” First, expanded opportunities
benefit the poor directly, through greater
participation in the development process.
Second, the development process itself may
become more successful and resilient as
greater equity leads to better institutions,
more effective conflict management, and a
better use of all potential resources in society, including those of the poor. Resulting
increases in economic growth rates in poor
countries will, in turn, contribute to a
reduction in global inequities.
One manifestation of the greater participation of the poor in economic growth is
the fact that the growth elasticity of
poverty reduction falls with greater income
inequality. In other words, the impact of
(the same amount of) growth on poverty
reduction is significantly greater when initial income inequality is lower. On average,
for countries with low levels of income
inequality, a 1 percentage point growth in
mean incomes leads to about a 4 percentage-point reduction in the incidence of $1
per day poverty. That power falls to close to
zero in countries with high income
inequality.8 Policies that lead to greater
equity thus lead to lower poverty—directly
through expanding the opportunities of
the poor and indirectly through higher levels of sustained development.
An equity lens adds three new—or at
least often neglected—perspectives to development policymaking:

So a portion of the economic and political
inequalities we observe around the world is
attributable to unequal opportunities. This

• First, the best policies for poverty
reduction could involve redistributions

9

10

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

of influence, advantage, or subsidies
away from dominant groups. Highly
unequally distributed wealth associated
with unduly concentrated political
power can prevent institutions from
enforcing broad-based personal and
property rights, and lead to skewed provisioning of services and functioning of
markets. This is unlikely to change
unless voice and influence, and public
resources, shift away from the dominant group toward those with fewer
opportunities.9
• Second, while such equity-enhancing
redistributions (of power, or access to
government spending and markets) can
often be efficiency-increasing, possible
tradeoffs need to be assessed in the
design of policy. At some point, higher
tax rates to finance spending on more
schools for the poorest will create so
much disincentive to effort or investment (depending on how the taxes are
raised), that one should stop raising
them. When making a policy choice
along such tradeoffs, the full value of the
benefits from equity enhancement
should be considered. If greater spending on schools for lower-caste children
means that, over the long term, stereotyping will decline in society, with attendant increases in performance that are
additional to the specific gains from
greater schooling today, these gains
should not be ignored.
• Third, the dichotomy between policies
for growth and policies specifically
aimed at equity is false. The distribution
of opportunities and the growth process
are jointly determined. Policies that affect
one will affect the other. This does not
mean that each policy needs to take
equity into account individually: for
example, the best way to deal with
inequitable effects of a particular trade
reform is not always through fine-tuning
trade policy itself (which might make it
more susceptible to capture) but through
complementary policies for safety nets,
labor mobility, and education. The overall package and the fairness of the underlying process are what matter.

The analysis of development experience
clearly shows the centrality of overall political conditions—supporting the emphasis
on governance and empowerment in recent
years. However, it is neither the mandate
nor the comparative advantage of the
World Bank to engage in advice on issues of
political design. In turning to policy implications, we focus instead on the core areas
of development policy, while recognizing
that policy design needs to take account of
the broader social and political context, and
that accountability mechanisms influence
development effectiveness.
Because economic policies are determined within a sociopolitical reality, how
policies are designed, introduced, or
reformed matters as much as which specific
policies are proposed. Policy reforms that
result in losses for a particular group will be
resisted by that group. If the group is powerful, it will usually subvert the reform. The
sustainability of reforms, therefore, may
depend on making information about its
distributional consequences publicly available and, perhaps, forming coalitions of
middle and poorer groups that stand to
gain from them to “empower,” directly or
indirectly, relatively disadvantaged members of society.
How policies are implemented has a
technical aspect as well. Just as we emphasize that the full long-term benefits of redistributions need to be taken into account
when making policy choices, so must all
their costs. A focus on equity does not
change the facts that asset expropriations—
even in instances of historical grievances—
may have adverse consequences for subsequent investment, that high marginal tax
rates create disincentives to work, or that
inflationary financing of budget deficits
tends to lead to regressive implicit taxation,
economic disorganization, and reduced
investment and growth. In short, a focus on
equity must not be an excuse for poor economic policy.
The report discusses the role of public
action in leveling the economic and political playing field under four main headings.
Three of the headings concern domestic
policies: investing in human capacities;
expanding access to justice, land, and infra-

Overview

structure; and promoting fairness in markets. The fourth turns to policies for greater
global equity, in terms of access to markets,
resource flows, and governance.
Throughout the discussion, the report
weighs a desire to be specific and practical
against the fact that the best specific policy
mix is a function of country context. The
educational challenges facing Sudan are
different from those facing Egypt. The
optimal sequencing of reform in the public
sectors of Latvia and Bolivia are unlikely to
be the same. The capacity for implementing health finance reform in China and
Lesotho are also different. So the detailed,
specific policy advice always needs to be
developed at the country—or even subnational—level. Everything that is said below
therefore retains some level of generality
and should be interpreted accordingly, and
cautiously.

Human capacities
Early childhood development. In many
developing countries, the actions of the
state in providing services magnify—rather
than attenuate—inequalities at birth. A
guiding principle is to shape public action
so that the acquisition of human capacities
is not driven by circumstances of their
birth, although it can reflect people’s preferences, tastes, and talents.
Because differences in cognitive development start to widen from a very early
age (see figure 2), early childhood development initiatives can be central to more
equal opportunities. Evidence supports the
view that investing in early childhood has
large impacts on children’s health and
readiness to learn and can bring important
economic returns later in life—often
greater than investments in formal education and training.
An experiment in Jamaica focused on
undersized children (ages 9 to 24 months)
and found that they suffered from lower
levels of cognitive development than those
of normal height. Nutritional supplements
and a program of regular exposure to mental stimulation, helped offset this disadvantage. After 24 months, kids who received
both better nutrition and more stimulation
had virtually caught up developmentally

11

Figure 6 Catching up through early interventions
Development quotient
110
Children of normal
height

105

Stimulation and nutritional supplement
Stimulation

100

Nutritional supplement

95
Control group
90
85
Baseline

6

12
Months

18

24

Source: Grantham-McGregor and others (1991).
Note: The development quotient is an index of progress on four behavioral and cognitive indicators of childhood
development. Number of months refers to the time after entry into the program—generally at an age of nine months.

with children who started life at a normal
height (figure 6). This illustrates how decisive and well-designed public action can
substantially reduce the opportunity gaps
between those least privileged and the societal norm. Investing in the neediest people
early in their childhoods can help level the
playing field.
Schooling. The process continues throughout the school system. Actions to equalize
opportunities in formal education need to
ensure that all children acquire at least a
basic level of skills necessary to participate
in society and in today’s global economy.
Even in such middle-income countries as
Colombia, Morocco, and the Philippines,
most children completing basic education
lack an adequate level of achievement, as
measured by internationally comparable
test scores (chapters 2 and 7).
Access to schooling matters—especially
in very poor countries—but, in many countries, it is only a small part of the problem.
Greater access needs to be complemented by
supply-side policies (to raise quality) and
demand-side policies (to correct for the possibility that parents may underinvest in the
education of their children for various reasons). There are no magic bullets for this, but
increasing teachers’ incentives, enhancing
the basic quality of the school’s physical
infrastructure, and researching and implementing teaching methods to increase the
learning performance of students who do

12

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

not do well when left to their own devices are
some of the suggestions on the supply side.
On the demand side, there is now a considerable body of evidence showing that
scholarships conditional on attendance have
significant impacts. Such transfers work in
countries from Bangladesh to Brazil, with the
impacts often greater for girls. There are also
promising approaches to bring in excluded
groups—as in the Vidin model of reaching
Roma in Bulgaria—and to bring up those left
behind through remedial education—as in
the Balsakhi program using young women as
para-teachers in 20 cities in India. As argued
in World Development Report 2004, developing the accountability of schools and
teachers to students, parents, and the broader
community can help ensure effective service
provider behavior.
Health. Two areas stand out in reducing
inequity and tackling economic distortions
in the provision of health services. First,
there are many cases when the benefits spill
over beyond the direct beneficiary in a
range of areas of service provision: for
immunization, for water and sanitation,
and for information on hygiene and child
care. Public assurance of provisioning
makes sense in these areas. Demand-side
subsidies to provide incentives for maternal
and child health increase use, offsetting
possible information problems as in Mexico’s Oportunidades program.
Second, insurance markets for catastrophic health problems are beset with failures. (Here “catastrophic” is in relation to the
capacity of the household to deal with the
direct costs and the loss in earnings.) The traditional supply-side model of relying on public hospitals works badly, especially for poor
and excluded groups. What can work better is
public provisioning or regulation that provides some insurance for all. Examples
include risk pooling in Colombia, health
cards in Indonesia and Vietnam, and Thailand’s “30-baht” universal coverage scheme.
As with education, these interventions need
to be combined with incentives for providers
to be responsive to all groups.
Risk management. Social protection systems shape opportunities by providing peo-

ple with a safety net. In addition to ill health,
macroeconomic crises, industrial restructuring, weather, and natural disasters can constrain investment and innovation. The poor,
with the lowest capacity to manage shocks,
generally are the least well covered by riskmanagement structures, although in most
countries many among the non-poor risk
falling into poverty. Broader social protection systems can help prevent today’s
inequalities—sometimes generated by bad
luck—from becoming entrenched and leading to tomorrow’s inequities. Just as safety
nets can spur households to engage in riskier
activities that can yield higher returns, they
can also help complement reforms that produce losers.
Safety nets typically target three groups:
the working poor, people viewed as unable to
work or for whom work is undesirable, and
special vulnerable groups. If safety nets are
designed in a manner appropriate to the local
realities on the ground in each country, individual targeted interventions in these three
categories can be combined to provide an
effectively universal public insurance system.
In such a system, each household that suffers
a negative shock, and falls below some predetermined threshold of living standards,
would qualify for some form of state support.
Taxes for equity. Successful interventions to
level the playing field require adequate
resources. The main aim of good tax policy is
to mobilize sufficient funding, while distorting incentives and compromising growth as
little as possible. Because taxes impose efficiency costs by altering individual choices
between labor and leisure and consumption
and savings, most developing countries are
likely to be best served by avoiding high marginal taxes on income and relying on a broad
base, especially for taxes on consumption.
Public spending should play the primary role
in actively furthering equity. Nevertheless,
there is some scope for making the overall tax
system moderately progressive without large
efficiency costs. Societies that desire such an
outcome can consider simple exemptions for
basic foodstuffs, and an expanded role for
property taxation, for example.
While the capacity of the tax administration and the structure of the economy influ-

Overview

ence the ability to raise revenues, the quality
of institutions and the nature of the social
compact are also critical. When citizens can
rely on services actually being provided, they
likely are more willing to be taxed. Conversely, a corrupt or kleptocratic state engenders little citizen trust in authority and little
incentive to cooperate. As a general rule, a
more legitimate and representative state may
be a prerequisite to an adequate tax system,
even as the notion of adequacy varies from
country to country.

Justice, land, and infrastructure
The development of human capacities will
not broaden opportunities if some people
face unfair returns on those capacities and
unequal protection of their rights, and have
unequal access to complementary factors of
production.
Building equitable justice systems. Justice
systems can do much to level the playing
field in the political, economic, and sociocultural domains, but they can also reinforce existing inequalities. The report pays
attention to both codified law and the ways
in which the law is applied and enforced in
practice. Legal institutions can uphold the
political rights of citizens and curb the capture of the state by the elite. They can equalize economic opportunities by protecting
property rights for all and ensuring nondiscrimination in the market. They underpin
and reflect the rules of the game in society
and thus are central to fair process—and to
the broad-based property rights and unbiased dispute resolution mechanisms so
important for investment.
The law can also accelerate shifts in
norms, and justice systems can serve as a
progressive force for change in the social
domain by challenging inequitable practices. For example, the U.S. Civil Rights Act
of 1964 and Medicare in 1965 enforced the
desegregation of hospitals and led to large
reductions in infant mortality for African
Americans. Affirmative action programs
have also been shown to reduce groupbased differences in earnings and education. But they can become politically
entrenched and limited to helping the better-off among disadvantaged groups.

Equity in laws and fairness in their implementation involve striking a balance between
strengthening the independence of justice
systems and increasing accountability—
especially to counter the risk that the powerful and wealthy might corrupt, influence,
or ignore the law. Measures to make the
legal system more accessible—mobile
courts, legal aid, and working with customary institutions—all help reduce the barriers that excluded groups face. Customary
institutions raise complex issues and may
incorporate inequities (for example, with
respect to gender), but they are too important to be ignored. South Africa is an example of a country that is pursuing a policy
that balances recognition of customary
practices with the rights and responsibilities
in state law.
Toward greater equity in access to land.
Broader access to land does not necessarily
have to come through ownership (chapter 8).
Instead, improving the functioning of land
markets and providing greater security of
tenure for poorer groups may be a more
fruitful area for policy—as in rural Thailand
and in urban Peru. Redistributive land
reform can make sense in some circumstances in which land inequalities are extreme
and the institutional context allows for
designs that effectively redistribute land to
smaller farms and support this with complementary services, without large transitional
costs. But this can be difficult, and tradeoffs
may be large when property rights have a
high degree of legitimacy.
Expropriating land (with compensation)
is probably the most disruptive redistribution
instrument. Divesting state lands and recuperating illegal settlements, possibly in
exchange for titling a portion of the settlement, may be two cost-effective alternatives.
Market or community-based approaches that
allow community members to obtain subsidized credit for land rentals or purchases
according to the willing-buyer-willing-seller
principle, as in Brazil and South Africa,
appear promising. A land tax can be a useful
complement, generating revenues to purchase land to redistribute or encouraging
redistribution by disproportionately taxing
large or underused plots.

13

14

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Providing infrastructure equitably. Access to
infrastructure—roads, electricity, water,
sanitation, telecoms—is typically highly unequal across groups. For many people in
developing countries, lack of access to
affordable infrastructure services means living in isolation from markets and services
and having intermittent or no supply of
power or water for productive activities and
daily existence. This often results in a significant curtailment of economic opportunities.
While the public sector will in many
cases remain the main source of funds for
infrastructure investments aimed at broadening opportunities for those who have the
fewest, the efficiency of the private sector
can also be harnessed. Although utility privatizations have often been attacked for
having unequal effects, the evidence indicates a more complex reality. Privatizations
in Latin America typically led to expansions
in access to services, particularly in electricity and telecommunications. In some cases,
however, postprivatization increases in
prices more than outweighed gains from
quality and coverage, leading to widespread
popular discontent.
Privatizations are therefore a classic case
of a policy that may or may not make sense,
depending on the local context. If the public
system is highly corrupt or inefficient, and
one expects postprivatization regulatory
capacity to be adequate, it can be a useful
tool. In other cases, poorly designed privatizations may be captured, transferring public assets, at excessively low prices, into private hands.
Experience suggests that whether infrastructure services are provided by private
operators or public utilities seems less
important for equity than the structure of
incentives facing providers and how
accountable these providers are to the general public. We argue that policymakers can
improve the equitable provision of infrastructure services by focusing on expanding affordable access for poor people and
poor areas—which often means working
with informal providers and targeting
subsidies—and strengthening the governance of the sector through the greater
accountability of providers and the
stronger voice of beneficiaries.

Markets and the macroeconomy
Markets are central to shaping the potential
for people to convert their assets into outcomes. When market transactions are influenced by the wealth or status of participants,
they are both inequitable and inefficient—
and can also influence the incentives for
different groups to expand their assets
(chapter 9).
Financial markets. Captured banking systems exchange favors: market power is protected for a few large banks, which then lend
favorably to a few selected enterprises, which
may not be those with the highest expected
risk-adjusted returns. This may lie behind a
cross-country association between greater
financial depth and lower income inequality. Achieving more equal access to finance
by broadening financial systems thus can
help productive firms that were previously
beyond the reach of formal finance.
These relations are only suggestive, however, so the report draws on case studies
from middle-income economies, such as
the Republic of Korea, Malaysia, Mexico,
and the Russian Federation, and poorer
economies, including Indonesia and Pakistan, to provide more concrete evidence.
These studies suggest an apparent paradox.
Societies with extensive inequalities in
power and wealth, weak institutions, and
controlled financial systems typically suffer
from narrow financial sectors that are oriented to the influential and hide weak asset
quality. Opening the financial system would
seem to be an obvious solution. Liberalization, however, has also often been captured
by the influential or wealthy, in countries
ranging from Mexico (in the early 1990s) to
transition economies such as the Czech
Republic and Russia.
Gradual deepening and broadening thus
needs to be combined with stronger horizontal accountability (in regulatory structures),
greater openness to societal accountability,
and, where feasible, external commitment
devices (such as the entry of Central European and Baltic states to the European
Union). Programs targeted to the poor—
such as microcredit schemes—can help but
are no substitute for the overall broadening of
access.

Overview

Labor markets. Leveling the playing field in
labor markets consists of seeking the right
(country-specific) balance between flexibility
and protection to provide more equal access
to equal employment conditions to as many
workers as possible. Many countries have
fairly extensive regulations and provisions for
formal sector workers, and far fewer for “outsiders” in the unregulated (and often less safe)
informal sector. There is usually a degree of
voluntary movement between the sectors,
and great diversity within the informal sector
itself, ranging from microentrepreneurs and
some of the self-employed with incomes
above formal sector workers to many with
much worse employment conditions. This
mix leads to inadequate protection for poorer
workers, while regulations for formal workers
can reduce the flexibility of employment and
often are a poor deal for the workers themselves, such as when job-related social security systems are inefficient.
Two broad labor market approaches are
relevant for equity. First, interventions in
the labor market should ensure effective
application of the core labor standards
across the whole market, implying no slave
or indentured work, no dangerous forms of
child labor, and no discrimination. Workers
should be free to assemble and form associations, and their unions should be free to
have an active role in bargaining. Second, in
all areas the policy mix needs to be assessed
in ways that balance protection (for all
workers) with allowances for the restructuring so central to dynamic growth and
employment creation.
Worker security is often provided by various excessively stringent forms of employment protection legislation, which, in general
make it costly to hire and, in some cases,
make it even costlier to hire unskilled, young,
and female workers—exactly those the laws
seek to protect. For many countries, less distortionary and more inclusive policy alternatives are available, which may make the playing field more even in labor markets. These
alternatives include unemployment insurance schemes (more likely in middle-income
countries) and low-wage employment
schemes (ideally with an employment guarantee), which can be applied successfully even
in poor countries or states.

Figure 7 Better to be close to economic opportunities
Changes in household welfare in Mexico, following trade liberalization in the 1990s

Changes in
household welfare
> 5 percent
4–5 percent
2–4 percent
0–2 percent

Source: Nicita (2004).

Product markets. There is substantial heterogeneity in the effects of opening a country’s product markets to trade, at least in the
short to medium term. This can be due to
geographic location, as illustrated by the
varying impact of trade liberalization in
Mexico (figure 7). This illustrates the
importance of interactions between domestic product markets and patterns of infrastructure provision. There are also often
strong interactions with skills in the labor
market. In many countries, opening to
trade (often coinciding with opening to foreign direct investment) has been associated
with rising inequality in earnings in the past
two decades. This is especially so for middle-income countries, notably in Latin
America. Opening to trade often boosts the
premium on skills as firms modernize their
production processes (skill-biased technical
change, in the jargon of economists). This is
bad for equity if the institutional context
restricts the capacity of workers to shift into
new work—or limits future cohorts’ access
to education.
Macroeconomic stability. This report argues
that there are two-way relationships between
inequitable institutions and macroeconomic
crises, with mostly bad effects for equity and

15

16

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

long-run growth. Weak and captured institutions are associated with a greater propensity
for countries to experience macroeconomic
crises. When crises occur, they can be costly
for the poor, who have weaker instruments
to manage shocks. In addition, crisis resolution is often regressive, through a variety of
mechanisms (most of them not captured in
traditional household survey instruments):
declines in the labor share, at least for formal
workers; capital gains for those who get their
money out; and fiscal workouts that bail out
the influential at substantial cost. Such
bailouts must be paid for through some
combination of higher taxes and lower
spending. Because taxes are typically proportional and spending is often progressive at
the margin (notably in Latin America), the
cost of bailouts is borne disproportionately
by poorer groups. High inflation has also
been found to be both bad for growth and
regressive in its impact.
A concern for equity would lead, in general, to a highly prudent stance on macroeconomic management and financial regulation.
Populist macroeconomic policy, sooner or
later, is bad for equity and bad for growth.
Policy design can increase equity through the
pursuit of countercyclical fiscal policy, building safety nets before a crisis, reducing risky
lending, and supporting only smaller depositors in bailouts. But, as in other policy areas,
these responses need to be underpinned by
institutional designs that combine greater
institutional freedom from political influence
(such as independent central banks and autonomous financial regulatory agencies) with
greater information and debate in society.

The global arena
One predetermined circumstance that most
powerfully determines a person’s opportunities for leading a healthy and productive life is
his or her country of birth. Global inequities
are massive. Reducing them will depend primarily on domestic policies in poor countries
through their impact on growth and development. But global action can change external
conditions and affect the impact of domestic
policies. In this sense, global and domestic
actions are complementary.
We live in an integrated world in which
people, goods, ideas, and capital flow across

countries. Indeed, most policy advice given to
poor countries over the last several decades—
including that by the World Bank—has
emphasized the advantages of participating
in the global economy. But global markets are
far from equitable, and the rules governing
their functioning have a disproportionately
negative effect on developing countries
(chapter 10). These rules are the outcome of
complex negotiating processes in which
developing countries have less voice. Moreover, even if markets worked equitably,
unequal endowments would limit the ability
of poor countries to benefit from global
opportunities. Leveling the global economic
and political playing fields thus requires more
equitable rules for the functioning of global
markets, more effective participation of poor
countries in global rule-setting processes, and
more actions to help build and maintain the
endowments of poor countries and poor
people.
The report documents some of the many
inequities in the functioning of global markets for labor, goods, ideas, and capital.
Unskilled workers from poor countries, who
could earn higher returns in rich countries,
face great hurdles in migrating. Developingcountry producers face obstacles in selling
agricultural products, manufactured goods,
and services in developed countries. Patent
protection restricts access to innovations
(particularly drugs) for poor countries, while
new research is strongly oriented to the
diseases of richer societies. Rich-country
investors often get better deals in debt crises.
In most cases, more equitable rules would
bring benefits to developed- and developingcountry citizens. Benefits vary across markets
and countries, with those from greater legal
migration likely to be greatest (and to accrue
directly to migrants) and those from trade
likely to accrue mostly to middle-income
rather than the least developed countries.
The report discusses options to reduce
inequities in the functioning of global markets, including the following: allowing greater
temporary migration into OECD countries,
achieving ambitious trade liberalization
under the Doha Round, allowing poor countries to use generic drugs, and developing
financial standards more appropriate to
developing countries.

Overview

The international laws that govern global
markets are the product of complex negotiations. In some cases, as for human rights
covenants, the processes generating the laws
are perceived to be fair. In other cases,
processes and outcomes are perceived as
unfair, even though the formal regulations
are equitable. Within the World Trade Organization (WTO), for example, each country
has a vote and each can block proceedings.
Even so, WTO processes are at times perceived as unfair because of the underlying
power imbalance between strong commercial
interests and the public interest, in both
developed and developing countries. These
imbalances manifest themselves, for instance,
in the number of staff employed in Geneva
by different WTO members. More effective
representation of poor countries in global
institutions would help improve processes
and may lead to more equitable rules.
The impact of reducing imperfections in
global markets varies by country. The larger
and fast-growing developing countries stand
to benefit significantly from freer global
trade, migration, and capital flows, helping
them sustain fast growth (while equitable
domestic policies both help underpin longrun growth and the broad internal sharing of
this growth). Countries left behind in the
global economy stand to benefit much less
from global markets in the short run and will
continue to rely on aid. For them, global
action that helps compensate for unequal
endowments is truly essential. Action to build
endowments is primarily domestic, through
public investments in human development,
infrastructure and governance structures. But
global action can support domestic policies
through resource transfers in the form of aid,
which is not offset by debt repayments, and
investments in global public goods, particularly global commons.
Aid levels need to be bolstered in line with
the commitments rich countries made at the
2002 Monterrey Conference and concrete
plans should be made to reach the target of

devoting 0.7 percent of gross national income
to aid. Larger volumes of aid will only help,
however, if aid is effective in alleviating constraints and spurring development in the
recipient countries. Greater effectiveness can
be achieved by emphasizing results, moving
away from ex ante conditionality, and progressively shifting design and management
from donors to recipients. Aid should not be
undermined by debt, for debt reduction that
is not financed by additional resources can
actually undercut effective aid programs.
Innovative mechanisms to expand development assistance should be explored, including global taxes and private contributions.

Equity and development
Bringing equity to the center of development
builds on and integrates the major emphases
in development thinking of the past 10 to 20
years—on markets, on human development,
on governance, and on empowerment. It is
noteworthy that this year equity is the focus of
both this World Development Report and the
Human Development Report of the United
Nations Development Programme. The plea
for a more level playing field in both the politics and the economies of developing countries serves to integrate the World Bank’s
twin pillars of building an institutional climate conducive to investment and empowering the poor. By ensuring that institutions
enforce personal, political, and property
rights for all, including those currently
excluded, countries will be able to draw on
much larger pools of investors and innovators, and be much more effective in providing services to all their citizens. Greater
equity can, over the long term, underpin
faster growth. This can be helped by greater
fairness in the global arena, not least through
the international community’s meeting its
commitments made at Monterrey. Faster
growth and human development in poorer
countries are essential to reducing global
inequity and to reaching the Millennium
Development Goals.

17

Introduction

1

chapter

18

Nthabiseng and Pieter—the hypothetical
South African children who opened the
report’s overview—are not unusual examples of people who face highly disparate
initial opportunities. A girl born to a lowercaste family of nine in the slums of Dhaka
has vastly different opportunities from a
boy born to well-educated and affluent
parents in the well-heeled neighborhoods.
An AIDS orphan in rural Zimbabwe is
almost certain to have fewer chances and
choices in life than a compatriot born to
healthy and well-educated parents in
Harare. Those differences are even greater
across borders: an average Swiss, American,
or Japanese child born at the same instant
as Nthabiseng will have incomparably
superior life chances.
Such staggering inequalities in opportunity are intrinsically objectionable, and
almost every culture, religion, and philosophical tradition has developed arguments and beliefs that place great value on
equity for its own sake. In addition, Part II
of this report will argue that we now have
considerable evidence that equity is also
instrumental to the pursuit of long-term
prosperity in aggregate terms for society as
a whole. But before one can describe
inequity, or assess its impact on growth and
development, a clear definition of the term
is needed.
This introductory chapter presents our
working definition of equity and briefly discusses its main component—equality of
opportunity. It then turns from our central
normative concepts to one of the report’s
key positive concepts: inequality traps. An
inequality trap encapsulates the mutually
reinforcing nature of various inequalities,
which leads to their persistence and to an
inferior development trajectory.

Equity and inequality of
opportunity: the basic concepts
What is equity? As with any normative concept, the word “equity” means different things
to different people. It is a difficult concept,
with a history of different interpretations,
varying by country and academic discipline.
Economists link equity to questions of distribution. Lawyers tend to think of principles
meant to correct the strict application of the
law, which may lead to an outcome judged to
be unfair in specific circumstances. Philosophers have produced the most headway in the
thinking about equity. Indeed, the attributes
that would characterize a just and fair society
lie at the foundation of Western political philosophy, from Plato’s Republic and Aristotle’s
Politics onward. Equity is also central to most
of the world’s great religions, including Buddhism, Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, and
Judaism, as well as to most other faith traditions. More recently, social choice theory, and
the closely related domain of welfare economics, have been concerned with the aggregation of preferences into some form of
“social optimum.”
Summarizing such long-standing and
nuanced characterizations is perilous, but
the common denominator of these many
different views is that equity relates to fairness, whether locally in families and communities, or globally across nations. We do
not dwell on the different approaches to
equity here, but we do elaborate on them in
chapter 4, which reviews various categories
of evidence in support of the intrinsic
importance of equity. For this report, we
think of equity as being defined in terms of
two basic principles:
• Equal opportunity. The outcome of a
person’s life, in its many dimensions,

Introduction

should reflect mostly his or her efforts
and talents, not his or her background.
Predetermined circumstances—gender,
race, place of birth, family origins—and
the social groups a person is born into
should not help determine whether people succeed economically, socially, and
politically.1
• Avoidance of absolute deprivation. An
aversion to extreme poverty, or indeed a
Rawlsian2 form of inequality aversion in
the space of outcomes, suggests that
societies may decide to intervene to protect the livelihoods of its neediest members (below some absolute threshold of
need) even if the equal opportunity
principle has been upheld. The road
from opportunities to outcomes can be
tortuous. Outcomes may be low because
of bad luck, or even because of a person’s
own failings. Societies may decide, for
insurance or for compassion, that its
members will not be allowed to starve,
even if they enjoyed their fair share of
the opportunity pie, but things somehow turned out badly for them.
The equal opportunity principle is conceptually simple: circumstances at birth
should not matter for a person’s chances in
life. But to measure inequality of opportunities is much harder. Chapter 2 briefly discusses one approach, which decomposes
observed income inequality into one part
that can be attributed, in a statistical sense,
to predetermined circumstances—such as
race, place of birth, and parental background—and one part that cannot. The
first component captures a lower bound
value for the opportunity share of income
or earnings inequality. But it is generally
very difficult to measure things like family
background precisely: years of schooling
and broad occupational categories are
imperfect proxies for a family’s endowments of human, physical, and social capital.
A superior approach would be to capture
the inherently multidimensional and groupbased nature of inequality of opportunity.
How do the factors that determine a person’s chances in life—the access to health
and educational opportunities, the ability to

connect to the rest of the world, the quality
of the services available, the way institutions
treat them—relate to one another? And how
do these factors vary across groups? Such an
approach would require a focus not only on
the dispersion of univariate distributions
(such as income inequality or life expectancy)
but also on the correlations among them
(how do health outcomes vary across socioeconomic groups?). This is the approach
taken in most of chapter 2, which summarizes information on inequalities (with emphasis on the plural) in the various building
blocks of opportunity and on their interrelationships.
In taking this route, the report recognizes
that predetermined circumstances, or membership in prespecified groups, affect opportunities in two ways:
• The circumstances of one’s birth affect the
endowments one starts with, including all
kinds of private assets, such as physical
wealth (including land and financial
assets), family background (the human,
social, and cultural capital of one’s parents), and access to public services and
infrastructure (sometimes referred to as
geographic capital).
• Group membership and initial circumstances also affect how one is treated by
the institutions with which one must
interact. Two individuals may both live in
areas where formal labor markets exist,
where courts are agile, and where a police
force is present. But if these two (otherwise identical) people, because of their
gender, race, religion, sexual orientation,
political beliefs, residential address, or
any other morally irrelevant reason, are
differently rewarded for the same work in
the labor market, are discriminated
against by the court of law, or are treated
with bias by the police force, then the
rules are not being applied fairly. Therefore, these two people do not have the
same opportunity sets. Equity also
requires fairness in processes.
Endowments that are less unequal,
processes that are fair, and protection from
deprivation are not always mutually consistent. At the policy level, there may be

19

20

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

tradeoffs among them. Indeed, some policies
or institutions developed to further one of
the principles may compromise the other.
For example, a policy of affirmative
action that seeks to correct past inequities
in the access to educational opportunities
for one group—to equalize endowments—
may imply that individuals of greater merit
(but from another group) are excluded, creating unfair processes. For another example, the taxes needed to raise government
revenues to make transfers to poor individuals (desirable to avoid deprivation) expropriate some fruits of the efforts of hardworking men and women. This might be
seen as violating property rights or the
rights to appropriate the fruits of one’s own
labor, again creating unfair processes.
Whenever such tradeoffs exist—which is
most of the time—no textbook policy prescription can be provided. Each society must
decide the relative weights it ascribes to each
of the principles of equity and to the efficient expansion of total production (or
other aggregate). This report will not prescribe what is equitable for any society. That
is a prerogative of its members to be undertaken through decision-making processes
they regard as fair.

Inequality traps
If people care about equity, and if political
systems aggregate people’s views into social
preferences, why don’t the distributions we
observe represent optimal choices? Why do
inequalities of opportunity persist, if they
are both unfair and inimical to long-term
prosperity? And how do these inequalities
reproduce themselves? The short answer is
that political systems do not always assign
equal weights to everyone’s preferences.
Policies and institutions do not arise from a
benign social planner who aims to maximize the present value of social welfare.
They are the outcomes of political economy
processes in which different groups seek to
protect their own interests. Some groups
have more power than others, and their
views prevail. When the interests of dominant groups are aligned with broader collective goals, these decisions are for the
common good. When they are not, the outcomes need be neither fair nor efficient.

Figure 1.1 The interaction of political, economic, and
sociocultural inequalities
Political
inequalities
Institutions
Sociocultural
inequalities

Economic
inequalities

The interaction of political, economic,
and sociocultural inequalities shapes the
institutions and rules in all societies. The
way these institutions function affects people’s opportunities and their ability to invest
and prosper. Unequal economic opportunities lead to unequal outcomes and reinforce
unequal political power. Unequal power
shapes institutions and policies that tend to
foster the persistence of the initial conditions (figure 1.1).
Consider the status of women in patriarchal societies. Women are often denied property and inheritance rights. They also have
their freedom of movement restricted by
social norms that create separate “inside” and
“outside” spheres of activity for women and
men. These social inequalities have economic
consequences: girls are less likely to be sent to
school; women are less likely to work outside
the home; women generally earn less than
men. This reduces the options for women
outside marriage and increases their economic dependence on men. The inequalities
also have political consequences: women are
less likely to participate in important decisions within and outside the home.
These unequal social and economic
structures tend to be readily reproduced. If
a woman has not been educated and has
grown up to believe that “good, decent”
women abide by existing social norms, she
is likely to transmit this belief to her daughters and to enforce such behavior among
her daughters-in-law. An inequality trap
may thus prevent generations of women
from getting educated, restrict their participation in the labor market, and reduce their
ability to make free, informed choices and
to realize their potential as individuals. This

Introduction

reinforces gender differences in power that
tend to persist over time.
Similarly, the unequal distribution of
power between the rich and the poor—
between dominant and subordinate groups—
helps the rich maintain control over resources. Consider an agricultural laborer
working for a powerful landlord. Illiteracy
and malnourishment may prevent him from
breaking out of the cycle of poverty. But he is
also likely to be heavily indebted to his
employer, which puts him under the landlord’s control. Even if laws were in place that
would allow him to challenge his landlord’s
dictates, being illiterate, he would find it difficult to navigate the political and judicial institutions that might help him assert his rights.
In many parts of the world, this distance
between landlords and laborers is compounded by entrenched social structures:
landlords typically belong to a dominant
group defined by race or caste, tenants and
laborers to a subordinate group. Because
members of these groups often face severe
constraints from social norms against intermarrying, group-based inequalities are perpetuated across generations.
Poor individuals in geographically isolated
regions and racial and ethnic minorities also
have less political power and less voice in
many countries. This affects their ability to
propose and implement policies that would
reduce their disadvantage, even if such policies might be growth-enhancing for the country.3 The correlations between the unequal
distribution of assets, opportunities, and
political power give rise to a circular flow of
mutually reinforcing patterns of inequality.
Such a flow, and its associated feedback loops,
help inequalities persist over long periods—
even if they are inefficient and deemed unfair
by a majority of the population.4
Economic and political inequalities are
themselves embedded in unequal social and
cultural institutions.5 The social networks
that the poor have access to are substantially
different from those the rich can tap into. For
instance, a poor person’s social network may
be geared primarily toward survival, with
limited access to networks that would link
him or her to better jobs and opportunities.
The rich, by contrast, are bequeathed with
much more economically productive social

networks that maintain economic rank. Rich
parents can use their social connections to
ensure that their child gets into a good
school, or they can call a few good friends to
make sure that their son gets a good job. Conversely, poor parents are more subject to
chance. Connections open doors and reduce
constraints.
Social networks are closely allied with culture. (By “culture” we mean aspects of life
that deal with relationships among individuals within groups, among groups, and
between ideas and perspectives). Subordinate
groups may face adverse “terms of recognition,” the framework within which they negotiate their interactions with other social
groups.6 One obvious expression is explicit
discrimination that can lead to an explicit
denial of opportunities and to a rational
choice to invest less at the margin.
But the process may also be less overt. A
person born into a low social class or a
socially excluded group may adopt the dominant group’s value system.7 Religious beliefs
may propel this: women may take on gendered beliefs about their economic and social
role, and low castes may absorb the upper
castes’ view of their “inferior” status. In
schools, a stigmatized group may face a
“stereotype threat,” adopting the dominant
group’s view of their ability to perform in
cognitive tests or in occupations historically
controlled by dominant groups.8 This can
affect a discriminated group’s “capacity to
aspire.”9 It also implies that “voice,” the capacity of individuals to influence the decisions
that shape their lives, is also unequally distributed and that “effort” and “ability” are not
necessarily exogenous (predetermined).10
The existence of these inequality traps—
with mutually reinforcing inequalities in the
economic, political, social, and cultural
domains—has two main implications for this
analysis. The first implication is that, because
of market failures and of the ways in which
institutions evolve, inequality traps can affect
not only the distribution but also the aggregate dynamics of growth and development.
This in turn means that, in the long run,
equity and efficiency may be complements,
not substitutes.11
Capital, land, and labor markets in developing countries are imperfect. Informational

21

22

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

asymmetries and contract enforcement problems imply that some people with good
project ideas (and thus a potentially high
marginal product of capital) end up constrained in their access to capital. This, even
as other people earn a lower return on their
(more abundant) capital. In agriculture,
land market failures mean that some farmers exert too little effort on some plots
(where they are sharecropping), and too
much effort on other plots (which they
own).12 Investment in human capital can
also be allocated inefficiently, because of
intrahousehold disputes, because creditconstrained households lack the resources
to keep their children healthy and in school,
or because discrimination in the labor market reduces the expected returns to schooling for some groups. What do such diverse
market failures have in common? They
cause differences in initial endowments—
such as family wealth, race, or gender—to
make investment less efficient.
There also are political and institutional
reasons why equity and efficiency are longterm complements. Markets are not the
only institutions in society. The functioning of states, legal systems, and regulatory
agencies—indeed, of all the institutions
that assign and enforce property rights and
mediate conflicts among citizens—is influenced by the distribution of political power
(or influence, or voice) in society. Unequal
distributions of control over resources and
of political influence perpetuate institutions that protect the interests of the most
powerful, sometimes to the detriment of
the personal and property rights of others.13
Those whose rights are not protected
have little incentive to invest, perpetuating
poverty and reproducing inequality. Conversely, good institutions that protect and
enforce personal and property rights for all
citizens have led to higher sustained economic growth and long-term prosperity.
Equity can, once again, help societies grow
and develop.
This does not mean, of course, that
efficiency-equity tradeoffs have somehow
been abolished. In some cases, equity
enhancements bring immediate—as well as
long-run—benefits for efficiency. If we
reduce discrimination against women in

one segment of the labor market, such as
management, and if this brings a new pool
of talent into that segment, efficiency is
likely to increase even in the short run.14 In
other cases, however, expanding the opportunity sets for the disadvantaged may
require more costly redistribution. To
finance better-quality schooling for those
who have the least educated parents, and
who attend the worst schools, it may be
necessary to raise taxes on other people.
The basic economic insight that such taxation distorts incentives remains valid. Such
policies should be implemented only to the
extent that the (present) value of the longrun benefits of greater equity exceed the
efficiency costs of funding them.15
The point is that some of these longterm benefits of pursuing greater equity are
ignored in the conceptual calculus of policy
design. The fact that better-schooled children who are poor and from a racial minority will be more productive is usually taken
into account. But the fact that they may
acquire greater political voice and help
make social institutions more inclusive—
which, in turn, may increase the stake of
that group in society, potentially leading
to greater trust, less conflict, and more
investment—may not be. To the extent that
such indirect (but important) benefits of
equity-enhancing policies are ignored, too
few of them are pursued—even assuming a
purely benevolent government.
By placing equity and fairness as central
elements of an efficient development strategy, developing countries will be better able
to reach sustainable growth and development trajectories. Such equitable growth
paths are likely to lead to faster reductions
in the many dimensions of poverty, the central objective of development everywhere.16
The second implication of the existence
of inequality traps is that no real-life policy
or institution is entirely exogenous: no
existing organization or application of a
policy idea has been implemented on a
purely technocratic basis. All policies and
institutions exist because the political system has brought them into being or allowed
them to survive. The political system
reflects the distribution of power and voice
attained at a particular time and place. This

Introduction

distribution is, in turn, influenced by the
distribution of wealth, income, and other
assets and outcomes in that society. Such
“circular causality” for wealth, income,
social and cultural capital, and power,
mediated through institutions, evolves
throughout time and history.
Acknowledging history and social and
political institutions is crucial to avoid policy mistakes. But a fatalistic view of the
world is not only wrong, but also counterproductive. To propose policies without
understanding history, or the specific context for developing these policies, often
leads to failure. But this acknowledgment is
not equivalent to the view that no policies
should be suggested at all. Such a view fails
to recognize how purposeful social and
political action can achieve significant policy and institutional changes—and would
result in fatalistic inaction.
History is not endlessly repetitive and, as
this report documents, many countries have
taken on the challenge of breaking inequality
traps with some success. Groups have also
changed their circumstances or changed
social and political institutions. Consider
the civil rights movement in the United
States, the democratic overthrow of
apartheid in South Africa, the more participatory budgeting practices in some Brazilian cities, and the reforms in access to land,
education, and local government in the
Indian state of Kerala. The challenge for
policy is to ask when and how such changes
can be supported.

A brief preview of the Report
Part I summarizes evidence on inequity
within and across countries. Part II asks why
equity matters for development, both intrinsically and instrumentally. Part III turns to
the policy implications. If unequal opportunities and absolute deprivation are inimical
to long-term prosperity—as well as intrinsically objectionable—there is scope for policy
and institutional reform aimed at leveling the
economic and political playing fields.
An equity lens and the focus on leveling
the playing field add three basic points. First,
redistributions from richer and more powerful groups to poorer groups that face more
limited opportunities are sometimes necessary and should be pursued. Second, when
considering policy tradeoffs between equity
and efficiency, the full long-term benefits of
equity—including on the development of
better and more inclusive institutions—need
to be taken into account. Third, all categories
of economic policy—macro and micro—
have effects on both efficiency (and growth)
and equity (and distribution). Because our
ultimate goal is the reduction of poverty
through the equitable pursuit of prosperity,
the policy suggestions in these chapters are
consistent with good poverty-reduction policies, which the World Bank has been advocating since at least the publication of the World
Development Report 1990.17 These suggestions are also in line with the 2000 World
Development Report’s three pillars of opportunity, empowerment, and security.18

23

Inequity within
and across countries

I

PART

focus 1 on

Palanpur

Inequality traps stifle economic development in a north Indian village
Villagers differ markedly from one another in the opportunities they have to improve their welfare and in their abilities to
use the assets and endowments available to them. Mirrored in village economic and social institutions—and in the political processes for seeking change—these deep-seated inequalities have prevented the village from improving human development and accelerating economic growth.

T

he village of Palanpur, in the north
Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, has
been the subject of intensive study
by a group of development economists
between the late 1950s and early 1990s.1
Researchers visited the village repeatedly
and collected detailed quantitative and
qualitative information. While a single village study covering a specific period of time
cannot be used to draw inferences about
development in rural India as a whole, it
does provide a distinct window into the
kind of processes that can shape growth
and equity over time.
The study documents modest economic
progress over time with slow growth in per
capita incomes and some declines in income
poverty. But alongside this sluggish growth is
evidence of stagnation and even deterioration along other dimensions of well-being.
Different groups of villagers, defined by
such predetermined characteristics as caste
or gender, face radically different opportunities for economic and social mobility. Their
economic endowments differ markedly, as
do their education, health, occupational
mobility, and capacity to influence and
shape social and political institutions in the
village. Disadvantage in one dimension of
opportunity is generally reinforced by disadvantage in others, combined in a way that
perpetuate the stark inequities over generations.
These deep-seated inequalities of
opportunity shape, and are shaped by, market imperfections in the village, resulting in
suboptimal investments and impeding
growth. Inequalities are also mirrored in
village institutions. State and central government policies that were introduced in
the village were inevitably filtered through a
highly unequal distribution of power and
influence. Rather than stimulating broad
economic and social progress, public policy
has simply reproduced the prevailing patterns of inequality.

Caste

Gender

Caste in Palanpur defines opportunities
and determines the activities villagers pursue, even independent of occupation, education, and other standard household characteristics. The three largest castes in
Palanpur are Thakurs, Muraos, and Jatabs.
At the top is a martial caste known as
the Thakurs, which accounted for about a
quarter of the population in 1993. Thakurs
are disproportionately represented in jobs
such as the army and police that accord well
with their martial past. They are typically
averse to wage employment in the village,
because this would place them in a subordinate position. Alert to nonfarm employment opportunities outside the village, they
are well placed to take advantage of them,
thanks to stronger information and social
networks.
Just below the Thakurs is a cultivating
caste, the Muraos, also accounting for a
quarter of the population. Muraos are traditional cultivators who have continued to
specialize in agriculture. Very hardworking,
they have seen a rapid rise in wealth and
economic status in the village. While they
may still not enjoy the same social status as
Thakurs, they have become more prosperous and now challenge the previously
unquestioned political and economic dominance of the Thakurs.
At the bottom are the scheduled castes
known as Jatabs, accounting for 12 percent of the population. Traditionally
“untouchable” leather workers who now
engage primarily in agricultural wage
labor, Jatabs have not seen any of the
social mobility of the Muraos. They
remain a caste apart, with little or no land,
poor education, and little access to nonfarm employment outside the village.
Despite some slight improvement over the
years, Jatabs continue to endure many
forms of discrimination, including that
from government officials.

Gender inequalities in Palanpur are pronounced. In 1993 there were 84 females for
every 100 males, strikingly lower than in
most parts of the world (where the ratio is
usually greater than one). Child mortality
rates are much higher among girls than
among boys. As the researchers reported,
“We witnessed several cases of infant girls
who were allowed to wither away and die in
circumstances that would undoubtedly
have prompted more energetic action in the
case of a male child.”2
Young girls leave their village to join
their husband’s family. Marriage is “the gift
of a daughter.” In the new household, the
girl is acutely vulnerable with no incomeearning opportunities, no property, no possibility of returning home permanently.
Giving birth to a child improves her status—particularly if it’s a boy. But family
planning practices are limited, leading to
high fertility rates and short birth-spacing.
Repeated pregnancies take an enormous
toll on women’s general health and put
their lives at risk at the time of delivery. Old
age is strongly associated with widowhood,
in part because of the typically large age difference between husbands and wives. To
survive, widows depend overwhelmingly
on adult sons.
The participation of women in the labor
force in Palanpur is extremely low. Of 313
women age 15 or older in 1993, only 14 had
anything other than domestic work as their
primary or secondary occupation. This low
female participation in the labor force and
society, more generally, has extensive consequences. For example, the survival disadvantage of girls compared with boys tends
to narrow only when adult women have
wider opportunities for gainful employment. Similarly, the virtual exclusion of
women from most representative institutions in Palanpur has limited the focus and
quality of local politics and public action.

Focus on Palanpur

Schooling
Inequalities in education are wide, declining
only slowly. In the late 1950s, just under 20
percent of males age seven or older, and only
1 percent of females, were literate. By 1993,
male literacy had risen to 37 percent and
female literacy to just below 10 percent. Yet
education is clearly of great value in Palanpur. Years of schooling strongly increase the
likelihood that an individual will find
employment in a regular job outside the village. Among farmers, too, direct observation
strongly suggests that better-educated farmers in Palanpur have been crucial in technological innovation and diffusion.
The perceived value of female education
is quite different from that for boys, because
girls are expected to spend most of their
adult life in domestic work. Although there
is good evidence of the benefits of education in domestic activities, it is not clear
that the effects of maternal literacy on child
health, for example, are recognized. Even if
benefits are correctly perceived, they might
not be of direct interest to the parents,
because daughters are “transferred” from
the village when they marry. Those who
bear the costs of female education thus
share little in the benefits.
The upper-caste Thakurs have a view
(adopted by many others) that education is
not important or even suitable for the lower
castes. Blatant forms of discrimination
against children from disadvantaged castes
have disappeared from the schooling system, but subtler forms of discrimination
have remained—for example, the highcaste teacher considered any form of contact with Jatab children as “repulsive,”
which likely affected his or her rapport with
them and probably discouraged their attendance.

Work
Occupational divisions in Palanpur have
widened as the village has shifted from an
overwhelmingly agricultural economy to
one in which nonagricultural activities have
come to account for 30 to 40 percent of village income. In 1957–58 some 13 villagers
(of 528) were employed in regular or semiregular nonfarm jobs. By 1993, this number
had increased more than four times to 57
jobs (the total population had only doubled).
Outside jobs are associated with higher
and more stable incomes, and the work is

often less strenuous and demanding than in
agriculture. Access to nonfarm jobs is far
from equal, however. Workers who wish to
obtain a regular job generally have to pay
bribes and, more important, get a recommendation or introduction from a friend or
relative. Such rationing by personal contacts and influence implies that people with
low social status tend to be at a disadvantage in the competition for nonfarm jobs,
even for given education levels, skills, and
endowments.
The least advantaged segments of the
labor force in Palanpur are highly represented in agricultural wage labor. Casual
wage labor in agriculture can be described
as a “last-resort” occupation, one taken up
by those who have no significant alternative. Agricultural wage rates have risen over
time, but slowly, and there are prolonged
periods of seasonal unemployment.
Econometric analysis indicates that—
controlling for a large number of household characteristics (caste, demographic
characteristics, education, land, and so
on)—the probability of engagement in
agricultural labor is 50 to 60 percent higher
for households that had engaged in this
occupation a decade earlier. Occupational
inequalities thus result in income inequality, and they persist over long periods.

Incomes, assets, and liabilities
Per capita incomes in Palanpur have grown
at around 2 percent a year between 1957–8
and 1983–4 and income poverty fell from
around 47 to 34 percent during this period.
Incomes in the village are distributed about
as unequally as they are in India as a whole,
and income inequality has remained relatively stable over time.
An assessment of economic inequalities
based on wealth provides a different picture. Ownership of durables has expanded,
and the value of land and other productive
assets has grown, implying a significant rise
in gross wealth. But there has also been a
dramatic and uneven expansion of liabilities. Inequality in the distribution of net
wealth has widened in Palanpur from a
Gini of around 0.46 in 1962–3 to a conservatively estimated 0.55 in 1990.
Many of the liabilities come from publicly provided and subsidized credit sources
that have expanded sharply over time, but
that have been associated with pervasive
corruption. Disadvantaged groups, such as

27

the Jatabs, are the principal targets of fraudulent accounting practices that have
resulted in a dizzying accumulation of
debts and dramatically raised the cost of
borrowing for such households. Those
without access to cheap formal credit have
to fall back on private moneylenders, at
high interest rates.

Collective inaction
The different bases of social division in
Palanpur have led to multiple solidarities
and oppositions. The village society is
highly fragmented, with few solid rallying
points for collective action, whether cooperative or adversarial. The limited reach of
collective action, in turn, is responsible for
some of the most serious failures of its
development. For example, the village
assembly (panchayat) is constituted every
few years, but it rarely meets. In 1984 it was
made obligatory that at least one woman
participant be selected, but in Palanpur she
is never consulted and has never attended
any panchayat meetings. All decisions and
responsibilities are effectively taken by a village headman, who has always come from
one of the privileged groups. There also is
ample scope for self-serving patronage and
fraud. Modern arrangements (elections,
reserved seats for low castes, and women on
the panchayat) have not profoundly altered
the elitist and nonparticipatory character of
local politics in the village.
The dominance of privileged groups
over collective institutions has had farreaching consequences. Between the late
1950s and early 1990s, no fewer than 18
types of government-provided programs
were introduced to the village: a public
works road-building program, free schooling, free basic health care, old-age pensions,
a fair-price shop, a farmer’s cooperative,
and so on. Most of them remained nonfunctional, particularly when there was a
redistributive component. Only programs
that enjoyed strong backing from the politically advantaged in the village were
allowed to succeed. The authors of the
study conclude, “There is little prospect of
major improvement in the orientation and
achievements of government intervention
without a significant change in the balance
of political power, both at the state and at
the local level.”3
Source: Drèze, Lanjouw, and Sharma (1998).

Inequity within countries:
individuals and groups

2

chapter

28

Across the world, individuals and groups
face highly unequal opportunities to better
themselves economically and socially.
Inequalities, as such, might not be of particular concern if outcomes varied for reasons
that had to do mainly with individual efforts.
But, taking our cue from the first chapter, we
are concerned here with systematic differences in opportunities for individuals and
groups who differ only in skin color, caste,
gender, or place of residence, predetermined
characteristics that can be argued to be
“morally irrelevant.” As illustrated in focus 1,
on the Indian village of Palanpur, when such
inequalities of opportunity are pronounced,
they are often reproduced over time and not
only affect welfare directly but also act to stifle human development and economic
growth.
On the basis of what predetermined
characteristics should groups be defined
such that we would not want to see systematic differences in their opportunities?
Clearly there is no single answer. Roemer
(1998) argues that society has to make this
choice through some kind of ethical and
political process. The circumstances could
include social origin variables outside an
individual’s control, such as sex, race, ethnicity, caste, parental education and occupation, wealth, or place of birth. Cogneau
(2005) notes that a society’s choice of
circumstances establishes a direct link
between equality of opportunities and the
intergenerational transmission of outcomes. In this chapter, we are largely compelled to let data availability dictate the
group definitions we consider. We can
thus present only a partial, and often rudimentary, picture of the full range of
inequity that might exist in a country.
Because we wish not only to look within a

country but also to compare across countries, we use group definitions of broad
relevance.
Although economic inequalities are
clearly part of the story, this chapter goes
beyond incomes to emphasize inequalities
in key dimensions of opportunity, such as
health, education, and the freedom and
capacity of people to participate in and
shape society. There is a special concern
with inequalities that tend to perpetuate
differences across individuals and groups
over time, within and across generations.
These result in “inequality traps” that are
pervasive in many countries. Such inequality traps reinforce our concern with equity
on intrinsic grounds, but they can also be
particularly detrimental to the development
process, because they act to curtail economic dynamism.
A key objective here is to show how
inequalities combine, interact, and are
reproduced through interlinked economic,
political, and sociocultural processes. Individuals and groups differ markedly in their
power to influence these processes; indeed,
they differ even in their capacity to aspire
to such influence. The report emphasizes
that such “agency” is a dimension of
opportunity, alongside education, health,
and wealth. And inequalities of agency are
central in explaining how inequalities of
opportunity are transmitted over time
(box 2.1).
This chapter presents evidence of a
high degree of inequality of opportunity
in many developing countries—inequalities manifest in a variety of dimensions,
such as health, education, and income. It
then focuses on the specific dimension of
inequality of power, or agency. Throughout the chapter, we emphasize that

Inequity within countries: individuals and groups

inequalities in different dimensions can
interact with, and reinforce, one another
over time. To highlight these connections,
we end by focusing on the specific case of
gender inequity.

Inequalities in health
Alongside the intrinsic importance of
health as a dimension of welfare, poor
health can directly influence an individual’s opportunities—his or her earnings
capacity, performance at school, ability to
care for children, participation in community activities, and so on. This important
instrumental function of health implies
that inequalities in health often translate
into inequalities in other dimensions of
welfare. And these inequalities are reproduced over time. We focus here on children, while recognizing that differences in
social status, wealth, and health also matter for adults.
Demographic and Health Survey (DHS)
data indicate that health status varies
sharply across population groups. To what
extent does it vary across population groups
defined by characteristics that are predetermined and arguably have no moral relevance? We draw on DHS data from 60
countries to examine how the health of
children varies across population groups
defined by mother’s education, rural or
urban residence, and parent’s economic status, proxied by an index of household ownership of consumer durables. (We look further at cross-country differences in health
in chapter 3.)
Infant mortality. For these countries,
infant mortality rates vary markedly—
from a low of around 25 per 1,000 live
births in Colombia and Jordan, to more
than 125 in Mali, Niger, and Mozambique
(figure 2.1). But even where overall infant
mortality rates are high, the figures for
children whose mothers have a secondary
education or higher are dramatically
lower. The risk of death among children
with well-educated mothers in Mali, for
example, is about the same as that for the
average child in Indonesia. And while the
overall infant mortality rate in Brazil lies

BOX 2.1

Unequal opportunities persist across generations
in Brazil

As a prelude to the themes in this chapter,
we describe one attempt to quantify the
level and persistence of inequalities of
opportunity in Brazil, based on nationally
representative household survey data. Brazil
was selected for a reason. With a Gini coefficient of per capita incomes just below 0.6
and persistent over time, it is generally perceived to be one of the world’s most
unequal countries.*
Brazil’s main household survey, the
Pesquisa Nacional por Amostra de Domicilios
(PNAD), included in 1996 a set of
supplemental questions on the parents of
respondents.This permitted an analysis of
the intergenerational persistence in
inequalities. Using four circumstance variables (parental schooling, father’s occupation, race, and region of birth), Bourguignon,
Ferreira, and Menendez (2005) investigated
how inequalities of opportunity generate
inequality in current earnings across different cohorts of adult individuals. Applying a
conceptual framework closely related to
that in chapter 1, they decomposed earnings inequality into a lower bound component attributable to the inequality of opportunity—to the effect of the four observed
circumstance variables—and a residual
component, which would account for personal effort, luck, measurement error, transitory income, and other unobservable characteristics.They found that the four
variables accounted for more than a fifth of
the total earnings inequality within gender

cohorts. Of the four, family background was
most important.
This distribution of certain opportunities and outcomes has persisted across generations. When the authors estimated
econometrically the relationship between
schooling and race, region of origin,
parental education, and father’s occupation,
only the coefficient on parental education
seems to have fallen across cohorts. In other
words, race, region of origin, and father’s
occupation continue to predict an individual’s education level. And even for education, mechanisms are at work to reproduce
schooling levels across generations, especially at the lower end of the distribution.
Brazil underscores the need to look at a
range of outcomes (of which incomes are
only one, with education, health and services
also of great concern). It also underscores the
need to look at a range of processes—of
which income and economic wealth-based
mechanisms form only part, and for which
group-based interactions are as central as
household and individual conditions, behaviors, and characteristics.
Source: Bourguignon, Ferreira, and Menendez
(2005).
* The perception of particularly high inequality
in Brazil may to some extent be a result of the
way income is measured there. Alternative
approaches to measuring inequality, based on
other welfare indicators, indicate that Brazil
may be less of an outlier in Latin America than
previously believed. See box 2.5 and also De
Ferranti and others (2004).

below 50 (estimates from 1996), the rate
for children whose mothers have not been
educated is roughly twice as high. Further
analysis, not reported here, indicates that
infant mortality rates are also sharply differentiated across population groups defined
by rural-urban residence and economic status, proxied by asset ownership.
Stunting. Another dimension of health,
extreme stunting (with height-for-age
below three standard deviations from the
reference population), also varies markedly
across countries. Overall rates are as high
as 30 percent in Pakistan and the Republic of Yemen, but negligible in Trinidad
and Tobago and very low in Jordan, Armenia, Brazil, and Kazakhstan (figure 2.2).

29

Figure 2.1 Infant mortality varies across countries but also by mother’s education within countries
Infant mortality rate per 1,000 live births
160

140
No education
120

100

80

60

40
Secondary or higher
20

Col

om
Jo bia
Sri rdan
La
Vie nka
Par tnam
Phi agua
lipp y
Tha ines
B ilan
Souotswa d
th A na
fric
a
Nic Per
ara u
gu
Bra a
zi
T
u
Gu rke l
ate y
Ind mala
one
si
Eg a
Tun ypt
Zim isi
bab a
w
G e
Mo hana
ro
Sen cco
eg
Ken al
ya
El Nige
Tur Salva ria
km do
eni r
sta
n
Ind
Bo ia
li
Erit via
r
Sudea
a
Ba Nep n
ngl
al
a
d
Cam esh
ero
on
ComTogo
oro
s
H
Ug aiti
and
a
Y
Camemen
bod
Zam ia
Pak bia
Cen
ista
n
tra
l Af Mad Ben
rica aga in
n R sca
epu r
b
Bu Gui lic
rkin nea
aF
a
Côt Ch so
e d ad
’Ivo
Ma ire
Eth lawi
i
Rw opia
and
a
M
Mo Ni ali
zam ger
biq
ue

0

Source: Authors’ calculations from Demographic Health Survey (DHS) data.
Note: The continuous dark line represents the mean infant mortality rate in each country, while the endpoints of the whiskers indicate the infant mortality rates by different levels of mother’s education.

Figure 2.2 Stunting levels of children born in rural versus urban areas are far from the same
Percentage of children severely stunted (z-score < 3)
35

30

25

20
Rural
15

10

5

Urban

Trin

ida

da

nd

Tob

ago
(
Jor *)
dan
Arm
eni
a
Kaz
akh Brazil
sta
n (*
Do
C
min
)
ica olomb
nR
epu ia
Par blic
agu
a
Tun y
isia
Tur
key
Egy
pt
Tur Gabo
km
eni n
sta
n
H
Sri aiti
Lan
Na ka
m
Mo ibia
roc
c
Nic
ara o
gua
Gh
an
Bo a
Zim livia
bab
w
Sen e
ega
Gu l
ine
a
Be
nin
U
Côt gand
ed
a
’
Ma Ivoire
urit
a
Ta nia
Bu nzan
rkin
ia
Ba a Fas
o
ngl
ade
Rw sh
and
a
Cam Mali
bod
ia
Gu Chad
ate
ma
la
Ne
p
Nig al
er
Zam ia
b
Ma ia
law
i
Eth
iop
i
Yem a
Pak en
ista
n

0

Source: Authors’ calculations from Demographic Health Survey (DHS) data.
Note: The continuous dark line represents the percentage of severely stunted children in each country, while the endpoints of the whiskers indicate the percentages for urban and rural areas.
* Indicates stunting level in urban areas are higher than in rural areas.

30

Inequity within countries: individuals and groups

31

Figure 2.3 Access to childhood immunization services depends on parents’ economic status
Percentage not covered
70

60

50

40

Poorest

30

20

10

Wealthiest

E
Jor gypt
dan
Co (*)
lom
b
Rw ia
and
a
So
uth Peru
Afr
ic
Ke a
nya
Ma
law
i
B
Zam razil
bia
Vie (*)
tna
T m
Gu urkey
ate
m
Tan ala
zan
Tur Indo ia
n
km
eni esia
sta
Mo n (*)
roc
c
Gh o
ana
Ph Benin
ilip
Ba pine
ngl
s
ad
Co esh
mo
ro
Bo s
Pa livia
r
Ka
zak agua
y
hst
an
(*)
Y
e
Bu
rkin men
aF
Ca aso
me
ro
Ug on
and
a
Ma India
uri
tan
ia
Ha
iti
Ce
ntr
Tog
al A
fric Ethi o
opi
an
a
R
Ma epub
dag lic
Mo asc
zam ar
biq
u
Gu e
ine
a
Ca Mali
mb
o
Pa dia
kis
ta
Eri n
tre
a
Nig
er
Ch
ad

0

Source: Authors’ calculations from Demographic Health Survey (DHS) data.
Note: The continuous dark line represents the percentage of children without access to a basic immunization package in each country, while the endpoints of the whiskers indicate the
percentages for the top and the bottom quintile of the asset ownership distribution.
* Indicates that the poorest quintile have higher access to childhood immunization services than the wealthiest quintile.

The difference between children born in
rural and urban areas can be dramatic,
particularly at higher overall stunting levels. In Guatemala, stunting rates for children in urban areas are around 10 percent,
but in rural areas they are as much as three
times higher. Children in Guatemala clearly
have no choice in deciding whether they
are born in the countryside or the city, but
their opportunities to achieve good health
are clearly much less assured in rural than
in urban areas. As for infant mortality
rates, stunting among children is also
sharply differentiated by mother’s education and household economic status.

access to health services, proxied here as
having received at least one of three key
childhood vaccinations—bacille CalmetteGuérin; diptheria, pertussis, and tetanus; or
measles (figure 2.3). This is so even in
countries where the overall percentage of
children without any coverage is as high as
40 percent. Conversely, children whose parents are in the bottom quintile are much
more likely to lack access to such basic
health care. In Morocco, where roughly 5
percent of children have not received even
one of these three vaccinations, the proportion for children in the poorest quintile is
well above 15 percent.

Access to immunization. Children born in
families whose asset ownership places them
in the top quintile of the distribution of
economic status have a high probability of

High-impact health services. The World
Bank (2003j), drawing on DHS data from
30 low- and middle-income countries, finds
that the poor are considerably less likely

32

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

than the non-poor to have access to highimpact health services, such as skilled delivery care, antenatal care, and complementary feeding. Similarly, Wodon (2005) draws
on household survey data from 15 African
countries to indicate that, while virtually all
urban households are within one hour’s
travel time to a health center, the proportion in rural areas is generally only around
half, and as low as 35–38 percent in Niger
and Ethiopia.
Disability. Data from a number of countries suggest that disabled people are
much more likely to be poor. Hoogeveen
(2003) reports that in Uganda the probability of poverty for urban dwellers living
in a household with a disabled head is 38
percent higher than for those who live in a
household with an able-bodied head. The
Serbian Poverty Reduction Strategy
reports that 70 percent of disabled people
are unemployed. In a study drawing on
10 household surveys in eight countries,
self-reported disability was found to be
more correlated with nonattendance at
school than other characteristics, including gender or rural residence.1 Sen (2004)
emphasizes that the disabled face not only
an “earnings handicap,” associated with a
lower probability of employment and
lower compensation for their work, but
also a “conversion handicap.” By this he
means that a physically disabled person
requires more income than an ablebodied person to achieve the same living
standard.
Social inequalities damaging health. Not
only are health outcomes correlated with
inequalities in other dimensions, but such
social inequalities can be argued to be
detrimental to individual health outcomes.2 In his comprehensive review of
the literature, Deaton (2003) argues that,
while it is certainly plausible that various
inequalities (such as those in power) cause
bad health, it is not clear that inequality of
income is the main culprit. He provides
evidence suggesting that, after controlling
for an individual’s income, income inequality at the group level does not matter
independently for individual health. Thus,

the main inequalities that affect health
may not be in the income space. He cites
examples of other key dimensions of
inequality: land ownership, women’s
agency (health and fertility in India), and
democratic rights (in England in the
1870s and in the U.S. South in the 1960s).
In general, an individual’s rank in the relevant hierarchy has been found to be important to health in animal and human
experiments. Repeated stress associated
with insults and the lack of control that
comes from low rank has a well-developed
biochemical basis.3
The consequences of poor health are
reflected in education achievements, economic prosperity, and future generations.
Consider the plight of AIDS orphans in
southern Africa, the stark inequalities of
opportunity they face, and the possible role
for public action (box 2.2).
DHS data (figures 2.1–2.3) provide
detailed insights into the relationship
between inequalities in health and some
key circumstance variables. But they are
not particularly well suited to capturing
the contribution of detailed spatial factors,
such as place of birth, in overall inequality,
because of the limited sample size. In one
attempt to get around this problem, child
height in Cambodia was estimated at the
commune level based on a statistical procedure to combine DHS data with population census data.4 The study documents
considerable heterogeneity across Cambodia’s more than 1,600 communes in the
prevalence of stunting and being underweight among children under the age of
five (figure 2.4). The analysis provides
clear evidence that in Cambodia a child’s
opportunities for good health have a
strong spatial dimension to them. Yet
clearly, no child is able to determine in
which locality he or she is born.

Trends
Average health in most countries improved
in the twentieth century (chapter 3).
Deaton (2004) documents that improvements in health are likely to have accompanied economic growth, but he also
emphasizes the globalization of knowledge, facilitated by local political, eco-

Inequity within countries: individuals and groups

BOX 2.2

33

Unequal assets, unequal opportunities: AIDS orphans in Southern Africa

It is hard to imagine people with fewer assets,
through absolutely no fault of their own, than
AIDS orphans.Left to fend for themselves on the
death of one or both parents from a progressively
debilitating, heavily stigmatized, and costly-totreat disease, their plight would be of concern
even if they numbered but a few.In southern
Africa, however, the United Nations Children’s Fund
(UNICEF) estimates that there were 12.3 million
AIDS orphans in 2003, a veritable demographic
group in their own right.By 2010, UNICEF projects
that there will be 1.5 million AIDS orphans in
South Africa; by 2014, 1 million in Zambia.
An entire generation of Africans is emerging
who will have been raised, if they are lucky, by
grandparents or extended family members
(themselves likely to be impoverished,
overwhelmed, and suffering from the disease).
At worst, they will grow up in child-headed
households or in situations in which their basic
rights to food, clothing, shelter, and adequate
care are routinely denied.

Wills and schooling
Beginning to overcome the huge disadvantages
that AIDS orphans start life with requires special
attention on numerous fronts (box 7.11 considers a variety of policy options). From a legal
standpoint, parents who know their death is
imminent and who have young children need to
be encouraged (even if they are illiterate) to prepare enforceable wills that will protect the inheritance rights of their children to ensure that surviving adults do not just forcibly take their land,

savings, or other valuables. From an education
standpoint, it is vital to keep children in school,
where the acquisition of even basic skills can
give them some viable prospect of being able to
move out of poverty.Where a child is the head of
a household and perhaps its sole income earner,
however, the pressures to drop out of school are
enormous. Numerous studies document significantly higher dropout rates of AIDS orphans. In
Kenya, one extreme example found that “52 percent of the children orphaned by AIDS were not
in school, compared to 2 percent of nonorphans” (UNAIDS 2002, 135).
Attending school is also important from a
civic perspective: it socializes children into the
norms and mores of society, and gives them the
confidence and capacity to participate more
fully in it.Without such socialization, vulnerable
young children are easy targets for those offering them security and status through membership in a street gang, criminal network, or militia
movement. If AIDS orphans continue to stay
from school at their current rate, comments one
senior U.N. official,“you will have a society where
kids haven’t been to school and therefore can’t
fulfill even basic jobs...a society where a large
proportion can have antisocial instincts because
their lives have been so hard.You [will] have a
generation of children who will be more vulnerable to exploitation and to disease because they
won’t have the same sense of self-worth” (cited
in Fleshman 2001, 1). Such children face the dismal prospect of failing to accumulate assets
because of the extreme burdens thrust on them

nomic, and educational conditions. In the
1980s and 1990s, however, progress
slowed—a result of the worldwide HIV/
AIDS epidemic and rises in cardiovascular
mortality in Eastern Europe and former
Soviet Union countries.
How have inequalities in health evolved
within countries? Data from DHS provide
some clues. For a subset of countries, multiple rounds of DHS data are available to
document changes in infant mortality over
time. Of some 36 “spells” of health change
that could be identified, roughly 25 corresponded to improved health outcomes in
the form of lower infant mortality rates.
Although overall health improved in these
25 cases, the gaps between urban and rural
areas, between groups defined by mother’s
education, and between groups defined by
durable asset ownership did not universally decline alongside the overall declines

in their most formative years and the paucity of
opportunities available to them thereafter.

Avoiding infection
The most immediate priority,however,is ensuring
that AIDS orphans do not themselves become
infected with the disease,thereby increasing the
likelihood that they will perpetuate the cycle.AIDS
orphans face precisely such a risk,however,
because the stigma of HIV/AIDS means that people
often assume that the children of parents who died
from AIDS must be infected,shunning,shaming,or
exploiting them accordingly.Some AIDS orphans
have even been denied access to schools and
health clinics because of the fear their very
presence generates.Children grieving the loss of a
parent are also vulnerable to the sexual predations
of those putatively claiming to offer them comfort.
Indeed,the desperation and apparent hopelessness of their circumstances—all the more so if it
coincides with a natural disaster such as drought—
can drive AIDS orphans into prostitution.
The plight of AIDS orphans provides a
graphic illustration of how cycles of disadvantage
can perpetuate themselves, and how social isolation and exclusion (especially at a young age) can
preclude the acquisition of assets and undermine
the capacity to sustain participation in the institutions that provide the best path out of poverty.
Sources: Avert.org (2004) http://www.avert.org/
aidsorphans.htm. Accessed December 14, 2004.
Fleshman (2001). Hargreaves and Glynn (2002),
Lewis (2003), UNAIDS (2002), UNICEF (2003), USAID,
UNAIDS, and UNICEF (2004).

Figure 2.4 Stunting and underweight in Cambodia

Stunting and underweight
(number of communes)
Stunting low/underweight low (260)
Stunting low/underweight high (189)
Stunting high/underweight low (365)
Stunting high/underweight high (780)
Incomplete data
0

100

200
kilometers

Source: Fujii (2005).

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

34

BOX 2.3

Health improvements and greater health equity
in Peru

Paxson and Schady (2004), drawing on multiple rounds of DHS data, document the
declining infant mortality rate in Peru
between the late 1970s and late 1990s. A
general downward trend exhibited a sharp
setback during the major economic crisis
between 1988 and 1992, but resumed after
the crisis.The downward trend remained
evident even after adjusting for age of
mother, recall period, education, and urban
status—indicating that the overall trend
decline in infant mortality was not attributable only to general improvements in education, an aging population, or urbanization. In
addition, the fact that infant mortality rose
sharply around 1990, even after these
adjustments, supports the notion that the
decrease in household income and the collapse of public expenditures on health as a
result of the crisis were important.

Infant mortality rates in Peru varied
markedly with the education level of the
mother in late 1970s and the 1980s (see figure below). During the economic crisis,
increases in mortality were largest among
infants born to women with less education.
After the crisis, the gap between infant mortality rates associated with different maternal education levels declined steadily, suggesting an overall decline in inequality in
mortality alongside the decline in overall
mortality rates.
There is some support for the view that
changes in the amount and composition of
public expenditures on social programs
drove these improvements. Real total
expenditures increased two and a half times
between 1991 and 2000, and such public
spending did not bypass the poor.

Adjusted infant mortality rates by maternal education
Probability of dying in the first year
0.15

0.12

0.09
Years of maternal education
10th percentile or 0 year
25th percentile or 2 years
50th percentile or 5 years
75th percentile or 10 years

0.06

0.03

90th percentile or 11 years
0.00
1978

1982

1986

1990

1994

1998

Source: Paxson and Schady (2004).

in infant mortality.5 The improvements in
health were not necessarily shared across all
groups in the population.
As Cornia and Menchini (2005) note,
mortality differentials across groups tend
to narrow with an improvement of the
average only if policies focus explicitly on
equity. Without such a focus, improvements in the average may not translate to
declining group differences. For example,
in the United States between the 1950s and

1990s, the overall decline in the infant
mortality rate to 7.9 in 1994 was accompanied by an increase in the ratio of black to
white infant mortality rates from 1.6 in
1950 to 2.2 in 1991. Inequality in health
does not inevitably fall as overall health
improves, but such a virtuous process is
possible (box 2.3).

Inequalities in education
Education is of great intrinsic importance
when assessing inequalities of opportunity.
It is also an important determinant of individuals’ income, health (and that of their
children), and capacity to interact and communicate with others. Inequalities in education thus contribute to inequalities in other
important dimensions of well-being.
Measuring inequality in education is
not easy. Census and survey data in most
countries can generally yield statistics on,
for example, years of schooling. But such
information does not capture well the
quality of education and how that might
vary across individuals. Nor is it easy to
compare years of schooling across countries, because those years might mean
something quite different from country to
country.
Test results. Despite the measurement difficulties, there is considerable evidence of
inequalities of opportunity in education in
the developing world. Consider the differences in test performance among Ecuadorian children ages three to six years across
population groups defined by parental
education, region of residence, and wealth
(box 2.4).
Test results among very young children
capture well the inequality in opportunity
in education, but such data are not readily
available for large numbers of developing
countries. So we look instead at the percentage of household heads with no education
by gender and by urban-rural residence.
Male and female household heads. The
overall percentage of household heads
without any education varies dramatically
across our sample of 60-odd countries
(figure 2.5). In the high-income countries,
the percentage rates are negligible. But at

Inequity within countries: individuals and groups

the other extreme, in Burkina Faso and
Mali, for example, the overall percentage is
more than 80 percent. What is similarly
striking is that, in most countries, the likelihood that the household head is uneducated
is dramatically higher than average when
she is a woman. In the Laos People’s Democratic Republic, for example, although the
overall percentage of household heads with
no education is about 20 percent, the rate is
closer to 70 percent for female household
heads.
Rural and urban household heads. Similar patterns can be observed for rural and
urban areas (figure 2.6). In general, household heads are far more likely to have no
education when they are based in rural
areas than in urban areas. Even in countries where the overall percentage without
education is very high, the rate in urban
areas can be dramatically lower. For example, in Burundi, the percentage of household heads with no education in urban
areas compares with the national average
in Mexico, the Dominican Republic, and
Brazil.
Access to teachers. A recent study of primary
schools and health clinics in Bangladesh,
Ecuador, India, Indonesia, Peru, and Uganda
has identified teacher absenteeism as an
important, common, problem. The study
found that higher income areas generally
have lower teacher absentee rates than
poorer areas.6 It also found that higher paid
teachers, generally more educated and experienced, appear equally or more likely to be
absent than contract or less remunerated
instructors, perhaps because these instructors sense a lower risk of being fired for their
absence. And although salaries in rural areas
were often higher than in urban areas,
teacher attendance in these areas was typically lower than in urban areas. In most surveyed countries, the quality of infrastructure
and the frequency of monitoring appeared to
contribute to lower absenteeism.

Trends
Another way to assess inequalities of
opportunity in education is to calculate an
overall index of inequality for years of edu-

BOX 2.4

35

Child test scores in Ecuador: the role of wealth,
parental education, and place of residence

That education achievements vary
markedly by population groups—and that
this can have profound implications—is
brought out forcefully in a recent study by
Paxson and Schady (2005).They show that
cognitive development of Ecuadorian children ages three to six years, as measured by
a test of vocabulary recognition (TVIP),
varies significantly depending on the
wealth of their household, their place of residence, the education of their mother, and
that of their father.The extent to which
these circumstance variables are associated
with performance on cognitive tests is typically more pronounced for the older
children in their sample.
These socioeconomic characteristics
are significantly associated with cognitive
development even after controlling for
child health and home environment. The
researchers point to the striking evidence
that, in Ecuador, the youngest children,
irrespective of wealth quintile or education of their parents, perform broadly as
well as their comparators. But as children
in Ecuador get older, their cognitive development, relative to this benchmark, falters
significantly. Only children in the top half
of the wealth distribution and with highly
educated parents maintain their performance relative to their comparators. By the
time they are six years old, most children
in the sample are so far behind in their
cognitive development that it is uncertain
whether and how they could ever catch
up.

Wealthiest and poorest quartiles
Median score
110
100

Wealthiest 25%

90
80
70

Poorest 25th%

60
40

50
60
Age in months

70

Maternal education
Median score
110
100

12 or more years

90
80

0–5 years

70
60
40

50
60
Age in months

Source: Paxson and Schady (2005).

cation and to assess how much overall
inequality of education can be attributed to
mean differences between “morally irrelevant” groups. Araujo, Ferreira, and Schady
(2004) find that the inequality of adult
education, measured by years of schooling
for 124 countries, can be pronounced. They
also find that it is strongly (and inversely)
correlated with mean years of schooling
across countries.7
The data assembled by these authors also
indicate that the inequality of education for
specific subgroups of the population can
change. While female schooling achievements relative to male achievements were
dramatically lower among the oldest cohorts,
particularly in Sub-Saharan Africa, South

70

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

36

Figure 2.5 Education levels vary across countries, but they also depend on gender of household head
Percentage of household heads with no education
100

80
Female

60

40

20

Male

Un

F
Ge inlan
rm d
S
ited we any
Kin den
g
Ca dom
Un Nonada
ited rw
a
Kyr Stat y
Ka gyzs es
z
Jamakhstan
a tan
Taj ica (
ik *)
Ro istan
ma
n
Isr ia
ae
C
Mo hilel
ldo
v
Pa Pera
rag u
Sri uay
Lan
ka
Tha Italy
Ge ila
Bo
org nd
sni
Vie ia (*)
aa
tn
nd
He Alb am
rze ani
g
Co ovi a
sta na
Ric
IndTurkea
Re
one y
púb
Ecu sia
lica
Bo
Pa ador
liva
n
ria
Boama
na
de Colo livia
Ve mb
nez ia
u
Do
min El Mexela
ica Salv ico
n R ad
epu or
blic
LaoBrazi
l
Ma PoPDR
dag lan
d
Tanasca
zan r
i
Jor a
da
Ho Kenyn
Ca nduraa
N mb s
Ca icar odia
me ag
Gu roon ua
ate (*)
Pa mala
ki
Cô Yestan
te d me
’Iv n
Ghoire
an
Ha a
Ba Tim iti
ngl or
ade
B sh
Bu enin
Mo rund
ro i
Gu cco
in
MaEthio ea
uri pia
tan
Bu
rkin
ia
a F Ma
aso li
(*)

0

Source: Authors’ calculations from household survey data.
Note: The continuous dark line represents the percentage of household heads with no education in each country, while the endpoints of the whiskers indicate the percentages for male and
female-headed households.
* Indicates that female-headed households have higher average levels of education than male-headed households.

Asia, and to a lesser extent the Middle East
and North Africa, these disparities are
noticeably lower for the younger cohorts,
particularly in Sub-Saharan Africa (figure
2.7). Additionally, disparities in years of
schooling between urban and rural areas
have been falling in some regions, most
strikingly in the Middle East and North
Africa and in Eastern Europe and Central
Asia. But in Sub-Saharan Africa there has
been little, if any, change. The (urban-rural)
between-group contribution to inequality
in this region has hovered at around 30 percent across all the cohorts examined.

Economic inequalities
An individual’s consumption, his or her
income, or his or her wealth have all been
used as indicators of the command of an

individual over goods and services that can
be purchased in the market and that contribute directly to well-being. It is clear too,
that individuals’ economic status can determine and shape in many ways the opportunities they face to improve their situations.
Economic well-being can also contribute to
improved education outcomes and better
health care. In turn, good health and good
education are typically important determinants of economic status.
An ideal measure of economic wellbeing for assessing inequality will capture
an individual’s long-term economic status.
But it is difficult to produce such a comprehensive indicator accurately. In practice, it is
common to work with measures of current
income or consumption compiled from
household survey data. While consumption

Inequity within countries: individuals and groups

37

Figure 2.6 Education levels vary by country and between rural and urban sectors
Percentage of household heads with no education
100

80

60
Rural
40

20
Urban

Un

ited

F
Ge inlan
r d
S ma
Kin wed ny
gdo en
m
Un NoCana(*)
ited rw da
S ay(
Kyr tates *)
Ka gyzs (*)
zak tan
h
Ja stan
Taj maic
ikis a
Ro tan
m
Isr ania
ael
(*
Mo Chile)
ldo
v
P Pe a
Sri aragu ru
Lan ay
ka(
*)
Tha Italy
i
l
a
Bo
Ge nd
sni
Vieorgia
aa
tn
nd
He Alb am
rze ani
Co govi a
st n
Tura Rica
Ind key(*a
Re
o
púb
)
Ecunesia
lica
ado
Bo
P
ana r
liva
ria
Bo ma
na
de Colo livia
Ve mb
nez ia
u
Do
min El Mexela
ica Salv ico
n R ad
epu or
blic
LaoBrazi
l
P
Ma Po DR
dag lan
d
Tanasca
za r
Jor nia
da
Ho Kenyn
n
Ca duraa
Nicmbod s
Ca arag ia
Gu meroua
ate on
Pa mala
ki
Cô Yestan
te d me
’Iv n
Ghoire
an
H a
Ba Timaiti
ngl or
ade
B sh
Bu enin
Mo rund
ro i
Gu cco
in
E
Ma thio ea
uri pia
tan
i
Bu
rkin Maa
a F li
aso

0

Source: Authors’ calculations from household survey data.
Note: The continuous dark line represents the percentage of household heads with no education in each country, while the endpoints of the whiskers indicate the percentages for urban and
rural households.
* Indicates that rural households have higher average levels of education than urban households.

and income inequality are expected to correlate reasonably well with long-term wellbeing, it is unclear exactly how well they
actually do. And different measures of economic welfare—based on income, consumption, or wealth—can yield quite different assessments of inequality (see also
box 2.5).
For example, Sudjana and Mishra
(2004), drawing on evidence produced by
Claessens, Djankov, and Lang (2000), argue
that wealth inequality in Indonesia is far
more concentrated than suggested by comparable figures based on consumption (figure 2.8). In 1996 more than 57 percent of
the stock market capitalization in Indonesia
was controlled by 10 families. This is in
stark contrast to neighboring countries,
such as Singapore and Malaysia, but it is

Figure 2.7 The share of inequality in years of schooling attributable to differences between
males and females has been declining
Between-group contribution to total inequality
(proportion)
0.4
Sub-Saharan Africa
Middle East and
North Africa

0.3

0.2

Europe and
Central Asia

South Asia

Other

0.1

East Asia
0.0
1935–9

Latin America and Caribbean
1940–4

1945–9

1950–4

1955–9
Year of birth

Source: Araujo, Ferreira, and Schady (2004).

1960–4

1965–9

1970–4

1975–9

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

38

BOX 2.5

Beware of intercountry comparisons of inequality!

Because countries differ in their data collection
systems, cross-country data on economic
inequality are generally based on a variety of
indicators that are treated interchangeably.The
lack of a uniform basis for measuring economic
inequality in different countries has serious
implications for comparability.
One of the main sources of noncomparability of inequality is that some countries use
household income as indicator of well-being
while others use consumption expenditures
(Atkinson and Brandolini 2001).These two indicators capture different aspects of economic
welfare, with the former perhaps seen better as
a measure of welfare opportunity and the latter
as a measure of welfare achievement. In most
countries, measured inequality based on
income is higher than if it is based on consumption. But this is not inevitable, and the degree to
which the two indicators disagree varies from
country to country (see table to the right).
The problem of comparability is not
confined to the choice of welfare indicator. An
important but underappreciated additional
issue is that, even for a given indicator, its definition varies considerably across countries and
even within countries over time. Consumption
inequality based on different definitions of consumption can vary markedly, and will depend
on a variety of factors, including the following:
• The length of the recall period over which
consumption is recorded.

Figure 2.8 Market capitalization
controlled by the top 10 families in
selected countries, 1996
Indonesia
57.7%
Philippines
52.5%
Thailand
46.2%
Hong Kong, China
32.1%
Republic of Korea
26.8%
Singapore
26.6%
Malaysia
24.8%
Taiwan, China
18.4%
Japan 2.4%
Source: Claessens, Djankov, and Lang (2000).

• The degree of disaggregation of consumption items.

Inequality: summary measures in a selection
of countries: consumption versus income

• The methods for imputation of housing and
durables consumption.
Similarly, income inequality can vary depending
on whether income—

Gini coefficient
Year

Consumption

Income

Panama

1997

0.468

0.621

Brazil

1996

0.497

0.596

• Includes actual and implicit transfers, and

Thailand

2000

0.428

0.523

• Refers to full income or earnings only.

Nicaragua

1998

0.417

0.534

Additional factors confounding comparability include differences in survey nonresponse
rates across countries (which are likely to affect
measured inequality—see Korinek, Mistiaen,
and Ravallion forthcoming). Differences across
countries in the availability of spatial price
indexes can also affect conclusions.Thomas
(1987) demonstrates that adjusting for spatial
price variation can affect conclusions about the
degree of income or consumption inequality.
Across countries there tends to be little uniformity in whether, and how, spatial price variation
is accommodated.
Cross-country datasets on economic
inequality generally incorporate some attempts
to improve comparability, but they typically fall
far short of achieving strict comparability. Without a concerted effort to harmonize data collection across countries, it is unlikely that such
global databases can be relied on to provide
more than a tentative picture of differences in
inequality across countries.

Peru

1994

0.446

0.523

Morocco

1998

0.390

0.586

Vietnam

1998

0.362

0.489

Nepal

1996

0.366

0.513

Albania

1996

0.252

0.392

Bulgaria

1995

0.274

0.392

Russian
Federation

1997

0.474

0.478

Bangladesh

2000

0.334

0.392

• Is intended to capture pre- or post-tax income,

only marginally higher than the figure for
the Philippines. More generally, Davies and
Shorrocks (2005) report estimates published by Merrill Lynch and Forbes that
some 20 percent of the world’s millionaires
come from the developing world. Similarly,
Morck, Stangeland, and Yeung (2000) find
a higher ratio of billionaire wealth to gross
domestic product (GDP) in Latin America
and the Caribbean, and East Asia, but not
India and South Africa (see chapters 6 and
9 for further discussion). These figures
imply that the distribution of wealth may,
on average, be more concentrated in developing countries than in the developed.
When wealth is associated with political
influence, such inequalities also translate
into political capture and can provide a
window on this added dimension of
opportunity.
Bearing in mind the warnings offered in
box 2.5, figure 2.9 provides an approximate

Source: Authors’ creation.

picture of how economic inequality is distributed across countries. The highest levels
of recorded inequality occur in Africa, the
second highest in Latin America. But inequality measures for Latin America come
largely from income data, while those in
other regions, such as South Asia, come
mainly from consumption data. As box 2.5
illustrated, income data tend to produce
higher measured inequality. Within regions,
the data suggest that inequality can vary
markedly between countries: consumption
inequality in South Africa is extremely high,
while in Mauritius it is lower even than in
OECD countries.
How much overall economic inequality
within countries is attributable to differences across population groups? Unlike
health and education inequalities, the systematic decomposition of income inequality by population groups has long been subject to analysis in the economics literature.

Figure 2.9 Africa and Latin America have the world’s highest levels of inequality
Income and expenditure Gini coefficients
Sub-Saharan Africa
Mauritius
Ethiopia
Niger
Tanzania
Benin
Mauritania
Guinea
Ghana
Mali
Mozambique
Senegal
Angola
Burkina Faso
Nigeria
Burundi
Cameroon
Uganda
Kenya
Côte d’Ivoire
Madagascar
Zimbabwe
Gambia, The
Malawi
Zambia
South Africa
Lesotho
Swaziland
Central African Republic
Botswana
Namibia

Europe and Central Asia
Azerbaijan
Hungary
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Czech Republic
Slovakia
Ukraine
Armenia
Uzbekistan
Serbia
Romania
Bulgaria
Belarus
Slovenia
Kyrgyzstan
Kazakhstan
Poland
Albania
Croatia
Russia
Tajikistan
Lithuania
Moldova
Latvia
FYR Macedonia
Turkey
Estonia
Georgia
Turkmenistan

Based on consumption
Based on income

Based on income

High-Income Economies
Taiwan, China
Japan
Finland
Sweden
Belgium
Denmark
Norway
Germany
Austria
Netherlands
Luxembourg
France
Switzerland
Italy
Ireland
Australia
Canada
Spain
United Kingdom
Greece
New Zealand
United States
Portugal
Hong Kong, China

Latin America and the Caribbean
Peru
Trinidad and Tobago
Nicaragua
Jamaica
R.B. de Venezuela
Uruguay
St. Lucia
Guyana
Costa Rica
Guatemala
Panama
Dominican Republic
Mexico
El Salvador
Honduras
Argentina
Chile
Ecuador
Colombia
Paraguay
Bolivia
Brazil

Middle East and North Africa
Yemen
Egypt
Israel
Algeria
Jordan
Morocco
Tunisia
Iran

East Asia and Pacific
Vietnam
Rep. of Korea
Indonesia
Mongolia
Lao PDR
Thailand
Cambodia
Philippines
Singapore
China
Papua New Guinea
Malaysia
0.0

Based on consumption

South Asia
Pakistan
Bangladesh
India
Nepal
Sri Lanka
0.2

0.4

0.6

0.8

0.0

0.2

0.4

0.6

0.8

Source: Authors’ calculations from household survey data.

39

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

40

These decomposition exercises seek to
understand what share of inequality can be
attributed to differences between groups
and what to inequality within groups. There
are several attractions to studying certain
population groups in this way and to comparing findings across countries.
Our interest here is to define groups by
circumstances we might consider “morally
irrelevant,” thereby gaining a window on
the importance of inequality of opportunity in the economic sphere. Additionally,
decomposition results generally are far less
sensitive to differences in definitions of
underlying welfare indicators than are
Figure 2.10 Between-group inequality decompositions: social group of the household head
Sub-Saharan Africa
South Africa
Madagascar
Benin
Côte d’Ivoire
Niger
Guinea
East Asia and Pacific
Vietnam
Europe and Central Asia
Kyrgyzstan
Romania
High-Income Economies
United States
Germany
France
Luxembourg
United Kingdom
Canada
Belgium
Switzerland
Australia
Ireland
Norway
Sweden
Austria
Finland

Conventional
Feasible

Latin America and the Caribbean
Paraguay
Guatemala
Bolivia
Panama
Peru
Brazil
Guyana
Nicaragua
St. Lucia
Middle East and North Africa
Israel
Jordan
South Asia
Nepal
Sri Lanka
Bangladesh
0

0.1

0.2

0.3
Proportion

Source: Authors’ calculations from household survey data.

0.4

0.5

0.6

measured levels of inequality. In that sense,
some of the difficulties with cross-country
comparisons described in box 2.5 are attenuated by subgroup decompositions.

Between-group shares
of total inequality
While the “between-group” share of overall
inequality is an appealing indicator of the
salience of differences across groups in the
overall assessment of inequality, there are
concerns about its interpretation.8 In particular, empirical measures of betweengroup shares are generally found to be
quite low (see figures 2.10 and 2.11).9 The
conventional presentation of betweengroup inequality is relative to total inequality. Elbers and others (2005), however, note
that total inequality can be viewed as the
between-group inequality that would be
observed if every household in the population constituted a separate group. Clearly,
against such a benchmark, one would
rarely observe a high share of betweengroup inequality.
Elbers and his colleagues propose an
alternative, comparing the actual betweengroup inequality with the maximum possible inequality that would be obtained by
keeping the number of groups and their sizes
at actual levels. For example, an assessment
of the contribution of gender differences to
inequality compares actual between-gender
inequality with the hypothetical betweengender inequality that would be obtained by
sorting the income distribution so that all
males appeared at one end of the distribution and all females at the other. This ratio
provides a measure of how far actual
between-group inequality lies below the
maximum between-group inequality that is
feasible given the existing configuration of
groups.
Economic inequality can be decomposed in a large sample of countries based
on several population breakdowns, two of
which are presented in figures 2.10 and
2.11: social group and education of household head. Such decompositions can follow
the conventional decomposition methodology, complemented by the Elbers and
others (2005) measure of feasible group
decomposition.

Inequity within countries: individuals and groups

41

Figure 2.11 Between-group inequality decompositions: education of the household head
Sub-Saharan Africa
Cameroon
Madagascar
Senegal
Burundi
Uganda
Côte d’Ivoire
Benin
Mali
Guinea
Kenya
Tanzania
Burkina Faso
Nigeria
Mauritania
Ethiopia
Niger

High-Income Economies
Luxembourg
France
Taiwan, China
United States
Ireland
United Kingdom
Italy
Germany
Finland
Netherlands
Switzerland
Sweden
Norway
Canada
Austria
Australia
Belgium

Conventional
Feasible

East Asia and the Pacific

Latin America and the Caribbean

Thailand
Indonesia
Papua New Guinea
East Timor
Philippines
Lao PDR
Vietnam

Guatemala
Brazil
Panama
Peru
Nicaragua
Argentina
Chile
Paraguay
Mexico
Colombia
Ecuador
Jamaica
Haiti
Bolivia
Honduras
Costa Rica
Uruguay
Dominican Republic
El Salvador
R.B. de Venezuela
Trinidad Tobago
St. Lucia
Guyana
Suriname

Europe and Central Asia
Lithuania
Romania
Serbia
Poland
Turkey
Hungary
Albania
Macedonia
Estonia
Kyrgyzstan
Georgia
Moldova
Bosnia & Herzegovina
Russia
Kazakhstan
Ukraine
Armenia
Tajikistan
Azerbaijan
0.00

Conventional
Feasible

Middle East and North Africa

0.15

0.30

0.45

Morocco
Jordan
Israel
Yemen
South Asia

Proportion
Bangladesh
Sri Lanka
Pakistan
Nepal
0.00

0.15

0.30
Proportion

Source: Authors’ calculations from household survey data.

Different population breakdowns contribute to differing extents to overall
inequality. In general, the conventional calculation of the between-group contribution points to a fairly low share attributable
to between-group differences. But in some
countries even the conventional share is

high. For example, in Paraguay, when
inequality is decomposed between groups
by language spoken at home, the conventional between-group share is approximately 30 percent (figure 2.10). And
when inequality is decomposed for five
broad education groups in Guatemala,

0.45

42

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

the between-group contribution is above
40 percent (figure 2.11).
In most countries, the between-group
share is noticeably higher for decompositions based on the alternative, “feasible” calculation. Based on this approach, observed
between-group differences are indeed substantial in many countries—for the group
definitions here. To the extent that these circumstances are judged “morally irrelevant,”
the findings suggest that in economic life,
just as in health and education, a substantial
portion of observed inequality in many
developing countries can be linked to
inequalities of opportunity.

Spatial differences
As with inequalities in health, conventional
survey data cannot say much about the contribution of finely detailed spatial heterogeneity to overall inequality—because of the
limited sample size. In an exercise analogous
to that for health in Cambodia (figure 2.4), a
variety of studies have applied statistical
techniques to combine survey data with
population census data to produce tentative
estimates of inequality at the community
and district levels. Elbers and others (2004)
document the contribution to overall estimated inequality of differences in mean
consumption for subdistricts in Ecuador,
Madagascar, and Mozambique. They
demonstrate that the between-subdistrict
contribution to total estimated inequality
ranges from a low of 22 percent in Mozambique to more than 40 percent in Ecuador
(table 2.1). Based on a similar approach,
World Bank (2004e) reports between-commune differences in Morocco, accounting
for 40 percent of overall estimated consumption inequality. The general impression is that spatial differences across localiTable 2.1 Decomposition of inequality between and within communities
Level of
decomposition

Number of
communities

Within-group inequality
(percent)

Between-group inequality
(percent)

Ecuador

1,579

58.8

41.2

Madagascar

1,248

74.6

25.4

Mozambique

424

78.0

22.0

Source: Elbers and others (2004).
Note: Our communities in Ecuador are zonas in urban areas and parroquias in rural areas. Communities in Madagascar are firiasana (communes) and in Mozambique they are administrative posts. The decompositions are performed
using the conventional methodology.

ties account for a larger share of total
inequality as the number of localities
increases. The analysis confirms that for
some countries the spatial dimension of
inequality is of considerable importance.
This conclusion carries over even more
powerfully at the global level, where the
between-country contribution to global
inequality is dramatic (chapter 3).
Other studies and methodologies corroborate the finding that spatial differences
within countries are important. Using farmhousehold data for rural China, Jalan and
Ravallion (1997) identify “spatial poverty
traps,” where poorer areas have lower provisions of essential public goods (such as
roads) and, as a result, households in the
area experience lower productivity on their
investments. Various studies find spatial
effects on living standards, even after controlling for nongeographic household characteristics. Ravallion and Wodon (1999)
demonstrate that place of residence is an
important determinant of poverty in
Bangladesh. They also note that important
spatial differences can be discerned even
within urban areas—households in the district of Dhaka are markedly better off than
their counterparts in other urban districts.
Many studies suggest that spatial differences in incomes are driven by policy. In
China, Kanbur and Zhang (2001) find a
measurable polarization between inland and
coastal regions where factors unrelated to
physical geography—development of heavy
industry in certain provinces, trade openness, and government investment in coastal
regions—are associated with widening
interregional inequality. Escobal and Torero
(2003) compare coastal Peru with the highlands and find that average per capita expenditures vary markedly and that this variance
is associated with fewer and weaker infrastructure services in the highlands.
The role of infrastructure is thus central.
Although it is not disputed that physical geography can also influence poverty directly, the
association between geographic variation in
poverty and geographic variation in infrastructure access is typically strong. Accordingly, it is argued that the influence of
regional geographic location on inequality
will diminish as access to transport and

Inequity within countries: individuals and groups

communications services improve; being
geographically isolated will matter less
because infrastructure improvements will
help compensate for distance.10

43

Figure 2.12 Location, education, and social groups can make a difference: regressions of total
inequality on shares of between-group inequality of different household characteristics
Urban-rural
Overall inequality

Social group of the household head
Overall inequality

The relationship between group
differences and inequality
As is clear from the discussion here, our
interest in the contribution of group differences to total inequality extends beyond
normative considerations of fairness and
justice. Differences between groups are also
thought to explain overall inequality outcomes, particularly the reproduction of
inequalities over time. The basic idea is that
between-group differences in income
inequality, for example, will tend also to be
mirrored in between-group differences in
health and education inequalities—and in
the agency of groups in influencing their
circumstances (see below). These group differences will then reinforce one another.
Group differences in education, for example, will translate into differences in
incomes and in political voice and participation. These inequalities will, in turn,
affect health inequalities between groups,
which are passed on to education inequalities and so on. “Inequality traps” are the
result. A corollary of this idea is that efforts
to moderate overall inequality levels might
require a focus on reducing between-group
differences.
It is difficult to systematically document
this instrumental role of group differences.
Figure 2.12 illustrates one attempt. Overall
inequality is correlated with the betweengroup share for the sample of countries in
figures 2.10 and 2.11, controlling for region
and whether the underlying welfare indicator is income or consumption. Nothing in
the mechanics of the calculation forces
overall inequality to be correlated with the
share attributable to between-group differences. Yet, for this sample of countries,
higher overall inequality is associated with a
larger between-group share of overall
inequality, which is attributable to the
rural-urban breakdown, to differences
across social groups, to differences in education, and (weakly) to differences in broad
occupation class of the household head.11

Between-group share
Occupation of the household head
Overall inequality

Between-group share

Between-group share
Education of the household head
Overall inequality

Between-group share

Source: Authors’ calculations from household survey data.
Note: Regressions include as controls (X) regional area dummies and a welfare measure (Y/C) dummy. The shares of
the between component of inequality across gender and age of the household head, and regions within the country
were not significant.

One interpretation of these findings is
that between-group differences account for,
and possibly explain, a non-negligible portion of overall inequality. This is consistent
with the broader theme of this report: that
group differences reinforce one another
and in this way contribute to the replication of inequality over time. But these simple correlations, while suggestive, could
also be pointing to other processes and on
their own cannot exclude other competing
explanations.

Inequality and growth, economic
structure, and trade
Systematic exploration of the impact of
between-group shares on overall inequality
has not, to date, been a major topic of
empirical investigation. A longer-standing
question in economics has been how
inequality evolves with economic growth
more generally. Pioneering work by Kuznets
in the 1950s launched an enormous
amount of empirical work on this question,
stimulating much debate. There is still no

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

44

BOX 2.6

Revisiting the Kuznets hypothesis for economic growth and inequality

The starting point of the literature linking economic development and income inequality
dates to the well-known works of two Nobel
Prize winners, W. Arthur Lewis (1954) and Simon
Kuznets (1955). Lewis, in his classic 1954 article
“Economic Development with Unlimited Supplies of Labor,” developed a theoretical model in
which growth and accumulation in a dual economy would start in the modern industrial sector,
where capitalists would hire at a given wage
and reinvest a share of their profits.The number
of traditional agricultural laborers willing to
move to this high-productivity, high-wage sector was assumed to be unlimited. In this process
of development, and as long as these assumptions would prevail, inequality in the
distribution of income would increase as average incomes rose.There would be a turning
point after which inequality would fall again as
the surplus labor phase ends and the dualistic
economy becomes a single-sector, fully industrialized economy.
Although Kuznets did not explicitly model
the intersectoral shifts of population as part of
the development process, he did build on them
to articulate his basic idea of an inverted-U relationship between economic growth and income
inequality (the “Kuznets curve”). In his presidential address at the Annual Meeting of the American Economic Association in 1954, he hypothesized that in the process of growth and
industrialization, inequality would first increase,
because of the shift from agriculture and the
countryside to industry and the city, and then
decrease as returns across sectors equalized.The
data Kuznets used to make this statement came

from a long-run series of inequality indicators
for England, Germany, and the United States,
and from a single observation in time for three
developing countries—India, Ceylon (Sri Lanka
today), and Puerto Rico.These were the data
available at that time, and Kuznets was well
aware of the limitations of the empirical backing
of his argument, in his own words, on “5 percent
of empirical information and 95 percent speculation, some of it possibly tainted by wishful
thinking.”
Kuznets based his speculation primarily on
longitudinal data and called for in-depth case
studies of the economic growth of nations. But
many subsequent studies simply used
aggregate cross-country data (often of not particularly high quality) and reduced-form models
to explore and support the hypothesis of an
inevitable tradeoff between development and
equality.The Kuznets curve became one of the
most quoted stylized facts of the study of
income distribution for nearly four decades.

Cross-country data can be misleading
for dynamic processes
With the development of much larger data sets,
such as the Deininger and Squire (1996) international inequality database (following on from
Fields 1989), empirical “tests” of the Kuznets
curve were widely conducted. But it has become
understood that the use of cross-country data
to analyze what are essentially dynamic
processes can be strongly misleading. Moreover,
numerous studies have shown that the
evidence in favor of the Kuznets curve is not at
all robust to econometric specifications, sample

consensus on a systematic relationship
between the long-term growth processes of
industrialization and urbanization—and
overall inequality (box 2.6).
Cross-country studies have also analyzed
the relationship between inequality and economic structure. Bourguignon and Morrison (1990), for example, argue that “developing countries which are comparatively
endowed with mineral resources and land
(climate) tend to be less egalitarian than others, although the effect of the agricultural
comparative advantage may be offset by the
distribution of land.” They also find that the
labor productivity difference between agriculture and the rest of the economy is a powerful explanatory factor for differences in
income inequality in a number of developing
countries in the 1970s and 1980s.12

composition, and period of observation. See,
among others, Bourguignon and Morrisson
(1989), Fields and Jakubson (1994), Deininger
and Squire (1998), and Bruno, Ravallion, and
Squire (1998). Bruno, Ravallion, and Squire
(1998), while drawing in part on cross-country
data, also analyzed one country—India—for
which relatively long time-series data had
become available, and again found no sign that
growth increased inequality.
Why the Kuznets curve does not hold in practice probably has to do with the fact that developing countries do not generally satisfy the
assumptions on migration processes and sectoral
development underlying the Kuznets hypothesis.
To explain international differences in inequality
of incomes, it is important that the link between
economic inequalities and other factors, such as
economic dualism, land, education, and regional
differences, be more carefully analyzed.

No straightforward relationship between
income and inequality
To conclude, there is today something of a consensus that no straightforward relation between
income and inequality can be established. As
argued by Kanbur (2000) in his exhaustive
review of the Kuznets curve literature in the
Handbook of Income Distribution: “it seems to us
far better to focus directly on policies, or combination of policies, which will generate growth
without adverse distributional effects, rather
than rely on the existence or nonexistence of an
aggregative, reduced form relationship between
per capita income and inequality.”
Source: Authors’ creation.

A large body of literature has also
explored the relationship between trade
openness and inequality but has not reached
a consensus. For example, Dollar and Kraay
(2002) and Dollar and Kraay (2004) find no
effect of trade openness on inequality, but
Lundberg and Squire (2003) do find such
an effect. Ravallion (2001) and Milanovic
(2002) report that at low incomes openness
may be inequality-increasing, but that this
effect reverses at higher incomes.

Trends
The discussion above highlights the many
mechanisms for hypothesizing how aggregate economic growth, and the evolution of
different sectors of the economy, can influence economic inequality. Popular lines of
argument have emphasized Lewis-Kuznets

Inequity within countries: individuals and groups

type processes, the race between relative supply and demand for skills along with household adjustments to participation, education, and fertility; the transitions from
controlled to market-oriented economic
systems; and various forms of power and
bargaining-related views of the world. In
the end, and perhaps not surprisingly, it is
difficult to identify a single overarching
explanation. Until recently, this did not
seem to matter much because there was a
general perception that inequality does not
vary markedly over short periods.13 In earlier studies, few countries having data on
inequality over multiple time periods indicated sharp changes.
For countries and regions. Empirical investigation of how inequality evolves in a country
is subject to concerns similar to those for
comparisons of levels (see box 2.5). But there
is a growing sense that the impression of stable, unchanging income inequality may well
be misleading. A few recent examples of
changing inequality bear mentioning. First,
careful work by Atkinson (2003) has documented the evolution of inequality in OECD
countries during the second half the twentieth century. He finds that inequality in the
United States has been rising steadily since
the early 1970s (after seeing little change, and
possibly some decline, in the preceding
decades) and has risen dramatically in the
United Kingdom since 1980. Between 1984
and 1990, the Gini coefficient in the United
Kingdom rose by 10 percentage points (but
then did not increase further)—an unprecedented increase over such a short time. Elsewhere in the OECD, inequality changes have
been less marked. But to the extent that the
early and middle decades of the twentieth
century were associated with declining
inequality in these countries, this trend
seems to have halted by the century’s later
decades.
Second, inequality in China was
markedly higher at the end of the 1990s
than it had been in the early part of the
1980s. In general, the recent evidence in
East Asia suggests that inequality has risen
faster in the second round of high growth
Asian economies—such as China and Vietnam—than had been observed in the first

round—Hong Kong (China), Republic of
Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, and Taiwan
(China). A complete picture of the factors
behind this process is as yet unclear.
Although it is likely that at least part of the
story is linked to intersectoral transfers, as
emphasized by Lewis (box 2.6), Ravallion
and Chen (2004) indicate that inequality in
China grew fastest during periods when
economic growth and poverty reduction
were slow. They argue that China provides
little support for the view that rising
inequality is inevitable with rapid economic
growth and poverty reduction.
Third, South Asia has generally been
perceived as a region with relatively low
inequality. This probably is due, in part, to
inequality being measured by consumption. In this region, too, the prevailing view
has been that inequality changes little over
time. But the stylized fact of low and stable
inequality in South Asia has also been challenged. In India, the largest country in the
region, some uncertainty remains over how
inequality has evolved, because of wellpublicized issues concerning data comparability over time.14 The best available estimates suggest that inequality in India has
been rising, but with no solid assessment of
by how much.15
In Bangladesh, Nepal, and Sri Lanka,
however, recent and reliable data show very
large increases of inequality in the late
1980s and 1990s. In Bangladesh, income
inequality (as opposed to consumption
inequality) has been documented to have
risen from a Gini of 0.30 to 0.41 between
1991 and 2000.16 In Sri Lanka, the increase
in consumption inequality has been very
similar, from 0.32 to 0.40 between 1990 and
2002.17 And, in Nepal, the Planning Commission has produced estimates suggesting
that consumption inequality rose from 0.34
to 0.39 between 1995–6 and 2003–4.18 Only
in Pakistan is the evolution of inequality
not clear, because of difficulties with data
comparability.
In other regions of the world, the recent
picture on inequality trends is more difficult to summarize. For Latin America, De
Ferranti and others (2004) indicate that
inequality increased in most countries, by a
sizable margin, during the “lost decade” of

45

46

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

the 1980s. But during the 1990s, inequality
continued to rise in only about half of the
countries in the region, and less rapidly. The
authors note that, in Argentina, inequality
has risen sharply in the growth period and
during the crisis years. In Brazil and Mexico, the 1990s witnessed some small
declines. In Eastern Europe and Central
Asia, changes in inequality during the early
1990s, associated with the transition to the
market economy, have been difficult to document systematically because of data problems, according to World Bank (2000c).
Between 1998 and 2003, consumption
inequality declined in the former Soviet
Union countries (with the exception of
Georgia and Tajikistan), while there was no
clear trend in eastern and southern European countries (World Bank, 2005a). In
Africa and the Middle East, it is difficult to
point to broad trends, largely because of
concerns with data comparability over
time.
To what extent does our examination of
levels and trends in income inequality bear
on the themes of this report? This report is
most concerned about changes in inequalities in incomes, and other specific dimensions, if these dimensions are associated
with changes in underlying inequalities of
opportunities. Rising income inequality in
Russia during the 1990s, for example, is of
concern precisely because of its strong association with rising political influence and
state capture.
But this is not inevitably the case. A
recent study of income distribution dynamics in six East Asian and Latin American
countries by Bourguignon, Ferreira, and
Lustig (2005) decomposes income distribution dynamics into the underlying driving forces. They show that complex and
country-specific interactions between
powerful underlying social and economic
phenomena imply that distributional experiences must be assessed country by country.
For example, improvements in education
(equalizing opportunities) may be associated in one case with falling income inequality—Brazil or Taiwan, China—but in
another country with rising inequality—
Indonesia or Mexico. Our assessment of
the equity implications of changes in

income inequality will thus differ across
countries.
Across generations. Our assessment will also
depend on the degree to which inequalities
are transmitted across generations. The
study of intergenerational transmission of
welfare is not straightforward, because of
the scarcity of datasets containing information on various generations of adults in the
same family. Data from long panels are rare,
and questions about family background of
individuals are not always asked in surveys
(the Brazil data described in box 2.1 are a
rare exception). Information about education or occupation for various generations
can be captured relatively easily in recall
questionnaires. But information about
other dimensions, such as the incomes,
earnings, or even health status of earlier
generations, is not easily remembered by
individuals (not least because they often
change during a lifetime). The scarcity of
intergenerational data is particularly striking in developing countries. Even though
the persistence of inequalities across generations is often thought to be much more
acute in developing countries, studies on
intergenerational mobility in the developing world remain few and far between.
Even when the data exist, differences in
methodologies and data often limit the
scope for comparisons across countries.
The most widespread measure of intergenerational mobility in the economics literature is the intergenerational earnings elasticity, or the elasticity of sons’ earnings
with the earnings of their parents. This
measure generally comes from a log-linear
regression of sons’ earnings (although it
could also be income or years of schooling)
on fathers’ observed earnings (or its predicted value using such other information
as education or occupation). The closer the
elasticity is to zero, the more mobile the
society is supposed to be. This elasticity has
been widely used in the U.S. literature,
where longitudinal data are relatively
abundant. And for comparability, it has
also been calculated in most other countries’ recent studies.19
Until recently, estimates of the intergenerational elasticity of earnings were thought to

Inequity within countries: individuals and groups

be around 0.4 in the United States, suggesting a reasonably mobile society in incomes.20
More recently, however, Mazumder (2005)
uses new data and recent econometric techniques to correct for transitory fluctuations
in earnings—he shows that the previous estimates of intergenerational elasticity were
biased downward by about 30 percent. He
argues that the true estimate is somewhere
around 0.6 for the United States.
An intergenerational elasticity of 0.6 compared to 0.4 paints a dramatically different
picture of mobility in American society. For
example, it implies that a family whose earnings are half the national average would
require five generations instead of three
before it substantially closed the gap. Obviously a difference of two generations, or
about fifty years, is quite substantial and suggests the need to examine policies that foster
greater mobility.21

In parallel analyses, estimates of intergenerational mobility in Canada, Finland,
or Sweden, among others, have tended to
report elasticities closer to 0.2 or lower, suggesting that these societies are considerably
more mobile than the United States. A relatively early study of mobility in the United
Kingdom (Atkinson, Maynard, and Trinder
1983) reports an elasticity of 0.43, while a
more recent study by Dearden, Machin, and
Reed (1997) estimates an elasticity of 0.57.
These studies indicate that people in the
United Kingdom are about as mobile as
those in the United States. Because of the
data limitations, only a few exceptional
studies on intergenerational earnings elasticities for less-developed countries have
been carried out. These provide evidence of
relatively low mobility.22
In another literature review of crosscountry differences in intergenerational
earnings mobility, Solon (2002) asks
whether there is any link between crosssectional inequality within a generation
and the intergenerational transmission of
inequality. Although there is greater crosssectional inequality in the United States
and the United Kingdom than in Sweden
or Finland, Canada also has relatively high
inequality. The evidence needed to provide a clear answer to this question is
therefore still fragmentary, and only “con-

tinuing research (on international evidence of intergenerational mobility) will
improve our understanding of why the
intergenerational transmission of economic status is strong in some countries
and weak in others.”23
The intergenerational transmission mechanisms of inequalities will differ across countries and within countries across different
population groups. As described above,
Mazumder (2005) points to rather low levels of intergenerational mobility in the
United States. He also highlights an important racial dimension to this limited mobility and finds evidence of substantial immobility at the ends of the distribution. He
shows that of the individuals whose fathers
were in the bottom decile of the earnings
distribution, 50 percent will be below the
thirtieth percentile and 80 percent below
the sixtieth percentile. He finds the evidence
to be consistent with the hypothesis that
such immobility “might be due to the
inability of families to invest in their children’s human capital due to the lack of
resources.” By contrast, more than 50 percent of the individuals whose parents were
in the top decile will remain above the
eightieth percentile and two-thirds will be
above the median.
In another U.S. study, Hertz (2005) confirms the findings of Mazumder (and others) on the size of the intergenerational
elasticity. He then shows evidence that it is
largely driven by the especially low rate of
mobility of black families from the bottom
of the income distribution. While only 17
percent of whites born to the bottom decile
of family income remain there as adults, the
corresponding figure is 42 percent for
blacks. He also finds that “rags-to-riches”
transitions from the bottom quartile to the
top were less than half as likely for black as
for white families. He further provides evidence that the black-white mobility gap is
not “appreciably altered by controlling for
parents’ years of schooling.” Last, he provides evidence that the incomes of black
children are unresponsive to small changes
in parents’ incomes at the bottom of the
distribution.
To recap, summary measures suggest that
even in such developed countries as the

47

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

48

United States and United Kingdom there is
rather limited intergenerational mobility
across generations. Research in these countries has highlighted important heterogeneities in the patterns of reproduction of
different inequalities across populations
groups. For most developing countries, relatively little is known about intergenerational
income mobility. But given the acute groupbased inequalities in many developing countries, there appears to be little basis for
expecting much intergenerational mobility.

Agency and equity:
inequalities of power
The foregoing discussion has raised explicitly the question of how inequalities are
determined and reproduced. It has pointed
to the potentially important role of group
differences in this process. This focus on
process and the factors that account for the
persistence of inequality over time puts the
spotlight on how much inequality is rooted
in deeper institutions in society—institutions of governance, access to land, control
of labor, market regulation. Chapter 6 deals
with the emergence and effects of such
institutions in more detail. Here we turn to
different kinds of evidence—and traditions of analysis—to discuss the unequal
capacity of people to influence the form
taken by these institutions and the consequences of unequal institutions for continuing inequality in such capacities. For

BOX 2.7

poverty the inequalities in capacity to forge
the institution or society can be as important as inequalities in health, income, and
education.24
A recent study of inequalities in governance in four slums of Delhi found that
access to formal government by slum
dwellers is more available to the better off
and to those who have good contact networks.25 Community leaders in these slums
facilitate access primarily to their caste
members, and slum dwellers are more likely
to delegate custodianship of their interests
to better-educated community leaders. The
study concludes that because access to
bureaucracy and political representation for
slum dwellers in Delhi is largely the preserve of the better off and better connected,
decisions of formal policymakers do not
seek to represent slum interests as a whole,
producing interventions that do not target
those in most need. The lack of broadly distributed “voice” thus results in patterns of
resource allocation, and income generation,
that are far from egalitarian.
The nature of this unequal capacity can
be captured through the sociological concept of agency. Agency refers to people’s
capacity to transform or reproduce such
societal institutions. Some of this capacity is
conscious—for example, when interest
groups lobby for a change in land tenure
legislation, or when women refuse to accept
laws around marriage that systematically
disadvantage them. Some of it is uncon-

Inequitable agencies and institutions in Pakistan

A recently completed Human Development
Report for Pakistan provides rich documentation of the skewed distributional impact of corruption (United Nations Development
Programme 2003).The report notes that corruption raises the costs of getting things done—for
setting up a new business, for crossing borders,
for obtaining a driver’s license. In Pakistan these
costs fall most heavily on those least able to
afford them: the poor. According to the Pakistan
Human Development Report, 16.7 percent of
the extremely poor reported paying a bribe to
run their business enterprise, handing over an
average of 6,800 rupees. Only 6.7 percent of the
non-poor paid a bribe, of 9,300 rupees. In rural
areas, the contrast is even starker: 20 percent of

the extremely poor paid a bribe, while only 4.3
percent of the non-poor had to do so. In urban
areas, the extremely poor paid on average 8,700
rupees in bribes, while the non-poor paid only
1,200 rupees.
Similar patterns emerge for mediating disputes.The extremely poor not only pay a higher
price to seek a resolution than the non-poor, but
also they are less likely to receive a satisfactory
outcome (38.5 percent versus 80.8 percent).
Indeed, the fee the extremely poor must pay is
often higher than their annual household
income, leaving many to choose to suffer the
consequences of a dispute even when they are
clearly in the right. In addition, the extremely
poor receive less assistance from the police (the

most immediate representatives of the formal
justice system), who are involved in only 1 percent of their disputes but nearly 5 percent of the
disputes of the non-poor.The poor perceive that
the police will be slow and inefficient in
handling their cases, and they frequently experience outright harassment and intimidation.
Even to register a case of kidnapping with the
police requires paying a bribe. In these
situations, it is hardly surprising that the poor
find it more expedient to take the law into their
own hands, creating in many urban areas a host
of new problems related to gang violence and
vigilantism.
Source: United Nations Development Programme
(2003).

Inequity within countries: individuals and groups

BOX 2.8

Legacies of discrimination and the reproduction of inequalities and poverty among the
Batwa in Uganda

The Batwa, who are described in many parts as
pygmy peoples, live in Eastern Uganda, eastern
Democratic Republic of Congo, and Rwanda.
Batwa have been subject to negative stereotypes
since at least 1751, when Edward Tyson
concluded that pygmies were not human but
rather apes or monkeys.They suffer multiple
asset depletion and wide ranging forms of discrimination, a situation that public actions have
at times made worse.Though longstanding forest
dwellers, the British sought to expel them to create forest reserves in the 1930s. In 1991, the
Uganda National Park authorities increased
efforts to enforce this exclusion from forest areas.
Although the World Bank—which was funding
some of the park authorities’ work—required that
the government assess the impact on indigenous
communities and follow defined compensation
procedures, these did not take sufficient account

of power differences among Batwa and other
affected groups, nor consider Batwa preferences.
All communities were viewed as uniform, a practice that the authorities later recognized “did not
take into account Batwa realities and left them
with nothing”(Zaninka (2003), 170).
Non-Batwa locals have resisted efforts to provide more appropriate compensation to the
Batwa. A Participatory Poverty Assessment (PPA)
highlighted persistent discrimination, describing
the Batwa as a “group of people who are
despised”and who “have no means of production
such as land, credit and training.They are
regarded by other ethnic groups in Kisoro as a
people with no rights.”This leads to everyday and
institutionalized forms of exclusion, with the
Batwa suffering discrimination in access to both
public spaces and services.While some Batwa
respond to this by organizing themselves, others

scious—for example, when people engage
in land transactions without questioning
them, they reproduce the institutions of
land tenure and the markets in land. When
a disadvantaged group accepts its disadvantage as “taken for granted,” the effect is to
allow the continuing existence of the relationships that create such disadvantage.
The internalization of disadvantage
leads to pernicious forms of agency that
perpetuate inequalities. From inequalities
in agency come inequalities in power, voice,
and self-confidence—a major part of our
story (box 2.7). Inequalities of agency are as
much products of dominant institutions as
sources of those institutional arrangements.
Maintaining these arrangements both
reflects and produces the distribution of
power among people. As for health, education, and income, though, this distribution
can change—and it has. Indeed, it has often
changed in relation to changes in these
other distributions.

Internalization of disadvantage
and inequalities of agency
Recent work on urban slum dwellers in
India26 (and elsewhere)27 suggests that a key
form of powerlessness for the poor involves
living with “negative terms of recognition.”
This concept highlights the conditions and
constraints under which the poor negotiate

respond in ways that—however rational and selfprotecting—often reproduce the extent to which
they are excluded.The same PPA reports some
Batwa children saying that they did not attend
school because it was so unfriendly to them.
When asked what they wanted to do upon completing school, one child replied that she wished
to be “a cleaner.”Discrimination and prejudice
diminish the capacity to aspire to and imagine a
different future.
Repudiation and discrimination can also
lead the Batwa to self-exclude from the public
sphere.The PPA notes that no Batwa attended
PPA exercises. Non-Batwa locals explained:
“Batwa would never come to such meetings, so
there is no point in mobilizing them.”
Source: Moncrieffe (2005), citing Participatory
Poverty Assessment reports.

the very norms that frame their social lives.
Being so routinely treated with contempt by
government officials, employers, and fellow
citizens—and encountering such enormous
obstacles to advancement—means that
excluded groups can, over time, come to
subscribe to norms about themselves and
their situation “whose social effect is to further diminish their dignity, exacerbate their
inequality, and deepen their lack of access
to material goods and services.”28
In these circumstances, the poor are not
only persistently and overtly discriminated
against. Their problems are further compounded and consolidated by their apparent
complicity in it, their revealed “adaptive
preference”29 for menial occupations and
ascription to norms and subservient behaviors that only legitimize and perpetuate their
powerlessness. Dire material circumstances,
rational expectations about their limited
prospects for upward mobility, and strong
beliefs about the legitimacy and immutability of their situation conspire to create a
vicious circle from which it may be very difficult for the poor to escape (see box 2.8).30
Inequality traps may cause crime and
violence. First, people who perceive their
poverty as permanent may be driven by
hostile impulses rather than rational pursuit of their interests. Second, sensitivity
to inequality, especially by those feeling

49

50

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

trapped at the bottom, may lead to higherrisk tactics like crime, when the expected
payoffs from socially legitimate activities
are poor. Third, people may be particularly
sensitive to group-based inequalities. If, for
example, racial heterogeneity and income
inequality are correlated and consolidate
status distinctions in a society, this could
spell potential for violence. Finally, as Merton (1938) elegantly states,
. . . when a system of cultural values emphasizes, virtually above all else, certain common
symbols of success for the population at large
while its social structure rigorously restricts
or completely eliminates access to approved
modes of acquiring these symbols for a considerable part of the same population, . . . antisocial behavior ensues on a considerable
scale. (italics reflect original emphasis)

A lack of upward mobility in a society, combined with a high premium on economic
affluence, results in anomie—a breakdown of
standards and values.31

Changing between-group inequalities
of agency and institutional power
Inequality of agency often leads to institutions that reproduce such inequality. But
these relationships are not immutable.
There are ample cases in which interventions—by civil society, reformist public
officials, external actors, religious institutions, and others—have given more selfconfidence and assertiveness to disadvantaged
groups, worked against the internalization of
disadvantage, and created new channels for
excluded groups to exercise voice with greater
effect. These changes improve the terms of
recognition for the powerless: they become
recognized by more powerful groups who
otherwise would not acknowledge them at all,
leading to empowerment of disadvantaged
groups in economic, social, and political
realms.
Empowerment can occur in many ways.32
Change typically occurs through the interaction between the opportunities for action
created by dominant political structures and
the capacity of poorer or middle groups to
engage. The “political opportunity structure”—that shapes the possibilities for
action—is itself a function of the openness
of political institution, the coherence and

positions of elites, and the effectiveness of
governments to implement approved courses
of action. The capacity of subordinate groups
is influenced by their “economic” capital—
their education and economic resources—
their “capacity to aspire,” and the closely associated capacity to organize.33
In Indonesia, the Kecamatan Development Project (KDP) illustrates change
occurring through action from above and
below: it aims to improve the terms of recognition and the political agency of marginal
groups, and to create new institutions for
greater agency to lead to material changes in
patterns of public investment. Consistent
with the ongoing process of democratization
in Indonesia, the source of change comes
from public policy rather than nongovernmental action, allowing the project to operate on a large scale (see also focus 4 for examples of change occurring at the local level).
A recent study34 of the efficacy of the
KDP on challenging and changing the
terms of recognition of participants suggests that it does provide villagers with a set
of deliberative routines for more equitably
managing the conflicts it inevitably triggers.35 These routines introduce marginal
actors to more equitable spaces of engagement with more organized and influential
actors. But building this conflict management capacity among marginal groups
depends on more than just forging collaborative routines. It also requires a set of
rules—defined by the KDP—that limit the
unfair exercise of power by dominant
groups. With the KDP cultivating collaboration and tangible points of political
power for marginalized groups, the results
include a well-functioning school or medical clinic but equally important a style of
group (re)definition and defense.
Changes in the agency of indigenous
peoples in Ecuador since the 1960s provide
another example in which mobilization
from below came to change national and
local structures. These changes are clear at
both local and national levels. In the 1960s
in the Andean province of Chimborazo,
the indigenous Quichua people suffered
multiple deprivations. They were subject
to everyday forms of violence and to domination and racism in their interactions

Inequity within countries: individuals and groups

with other ethnic groups and with authorities.36 Power was concentrated in the triumvirate of landowner, priest, and local
government authority. Much indigenous
labor was tied to large rural estates on
which labor relations were sometimes violent and returns to labor manifestly unfair.
Life expectancy was short, alcoholism
severe, and children’s access to education
and health acutely constrained.
At the start of this twenty-first century,
indigenous people now occupy several
county mayorships and have a majority of
councilors in several counties. The provincial prefect is also Quichua. Similarly at a
national level, former leaders of national
indigenous people’s organizations are now
ministers. And the national Confederation
of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador has
control of the directorate of bilingual education, the indigenous development council, and the office of indigenous health. It
also played a big part in negotiating and
administering a World Bank and International Fund for Agricultural Development–supported national Program for the
Development of Indigenous and AfroEcuadorian Peoples. By any calculation,
power relationships have changed in
Ecuador, becoming more equitable, with
indigenous people participating more
completely (and more equitably) in their
society.

The inequality trap for women
Unequal opportunities in health, education,
economic welfare, and political agency can
be readily observed in most developing
countries. The preceding sections have
emphasized that these different manifestations of inequity are not generally independent from one another and that this
interdependence can replicate inequalities
over time. This interrelationship can be
vividly illustrated by examining the nature
and implications of the inequality that traps
many women in developing countries.
Men and women around the world have
starkly different access to assets and opportunities, reinforced by unequal norms and
social structures, perpetuating gender differences over centuries. Gender inequity directly
affects the well-being of women and deci-

BOX 2.9

Sex ratios and “missing women”

Gender inequity causes many societies to Juvenile (newborn to four years old) sex ratios in
display some preference for male children. China, the Republic of Korea, India, and Punjab
But the “son preference” is strong enough and Haryana, 1950–2000
to result in substantial excess female child
mortality in parts of East and South Asia—
China
leading to the phenomenon of what
1953
Amartya Sen calls “missing women.” (Sen,
1964
1982
1990). In China and India the practice of
1990
female infanticide was noted at least a
1995
century ago, and in the Republic of Korea
2000
and India high juvenile sex ratios (the proRepublic of Korea
portion of male to female children below
1949
the age of 4) have been documented since
1960
1970
the first modern censuses were taken. By
1980
contrast there seems to be little son pref1990
erence in Southeast Asia or in most other
1995
parts of the developing world.
2000
The reasons for this seem to stem from
India
rigid patrilineal inheritance systems. While
1951
most societies deny women inheritance
1961
1971
rights, in other parts of the world there is
1981
some flexibility in these rules. In peasant
1991
Europe and Japan, for instance, women
2001
could inherit land if their parents had no
Punjab and Haryana (India)
sons. Despite egalitarian laws, customary
1951
practices in China, the Republic of Korea,
1961
1971
and northwest India permit a man, if he
1981
does not have sons, to adopt one from
1991
other male kin. In the past, it would also
2001
have been possible to take another wife.
1.00 1.05 1.10 1.15 1.20 1.25
The driving motivation is to use whatever
means possible to continue the male famrisen. In the Republic of Korea stark declines
ily line.Thus, girl children are undervalued.
have become only apparent in the last
During pregnancy, sex-selection may
decade—perhaps because of
lead to aborting female fetuses, reflected in
improvements in labor market opportunisex ratios at birth that are more masculine
ties for women. India, as a whole, does not
than the biological rate of 105 boys for
have juvenile sex ratios that are far different
every 100 girls. Sex-selection can also hapfrom many other parts of the world. But
pen through infanticide, although the data
northwest India has seen some particularly
make it difficult to distinguish between
worrying trends, with sex ratios sharply risselective abortion and infanticide.The third,
ing between 1981 and 2001, much attributand most common, mechanism is the negable to the higher incidence of sexlect and other practices that result in higher
selection in abortion. Other parts of India,
mortality rates for girls than boys during
especially the south, have more equitable
early childhood.37
labor markets and fewer restrictions on
In China, intense efforts by the governwomen’s mobility and inheritance.
ment resulted in a brief improvement in the
sex ratio during 1953–64 (see figure to the
Source: Das Gupta and others (2003).
right). But since the 1980s it has steadily

sions in the home, affecting investments in
children and household welfare (box 2.9).
Gender inequity is the archetypical
“inequality trap.” Most societies have norms
that preserve the prevalent social order, delineating different roles and spheres of influence
for men and women. The male sphere is typically outside the home in market work and
social interactions that enhance the family’s

51

52

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

status and power. The female sphere is usually
inside the home—looking after household
work, rearing children, and contributing to
the stability of the household. So, women’s
activities serve primarily as inputs into the
household’s collective well-being, while men
are ostensibly at its center—its breadwinners
and its link to the larger world where economic and social status are determined.
Marriage and kinship systems preserve
these structures of patriarchy. Most societies
are “patrilocal,” with women moving from
their parents to their husband’s home after
marriage. Marriage can therefore be thought
of as a framework that serves to exchange
women between households, and marriage
decisions are made with a view toward ensuring that this exchange of women promises the
maximum gain to both households. The
man’s household is the point of reference—
while the woman is simply an input into the
processes for households controlled by men
to generate economic and social returns.38
Inheritance tends to be consistent with
this pattern. Most societies are not just
patrilocal—they are also patrilineal, with
inheritance and property rights primarily
passed on to men. The majority of countries,
outside of Europe and Central Asia and Latin
America and Caribbean, restrict inheritance
rights to women.39 Some countries have legislation that guarantees equality in inheritance laws. But these laws often are not
enforced, and real authority over decisions
on inheritance rests in the hands of village
elders and chiefs, who follow customary
practices that discriminate against women.
Most countries that have unequal inheritance laws also have unequal property rights
regimes.40 Indeed, the vast majority of land
owners are men.41 Many societies compound
this by denying women the right to divorce.
This inequality in property rights regimes
persists even in countries where agricultural
production depends heavily on women’s
labor, such as many in Sub-Saharan Africa.
In Cameroon, women make up more than
51 percent of the population and do more
than 75 percent of the agricultural work, but
they are estimated to hold fewer than 10 percent of all land certificates.42 So, if women
work on farms, they are usually working on
farms owned by men.

In addition to being denied inheritance
and property rights, women in many societies face restrictions on their mobility. For
example, in the state of Uttar Pradesh in
northern India close to 80 percent of
women require their husband’s permission
to visit a health center, and 60 percent have
to seek permission before stepping outside
their house.43 These mobility restrictions
may be socially imposed, as with gunghat
among Hindus—or have religious sanctions, as with purdah among Muslims. Such
practices are not just socially enforced, they
can be internalized by women who treat
them as marks of honorable behavior. These
norms are transmitted by parents to their
children, ensuring their continuity over generations; in many societies, they are enforced
by older women in the community.44
Restrictions on mobility and rules of kinship and inheritance help shape social perceptions about women’s roles. If women are
socially and economically directed to focus
their attention and energy on activities in the
home, this is not just what men expect of
them—it is also what other women expect of
them. In much of the developing world,
women’s participation in the labor market is
more a function of adversity than active
choice—because husbands cannot earn an
adequate income or because of an unanticipated shock, such as a child’s illness.
Bangladeshi women described it this way,
“Men work to support their families, women
work because of need.”45 Women around the
world participate in a fair amount of marketbased activity for a wage, but they have to continue to perform most household chores (figure 2.13). They thus face a time squeeze,
spending more time at work, both in and out
of the home, than men do.
Because social and economic factors
determine women’s life chances more in marriage than in labor markets, parents invest less
in their human capital. Throughout the
developing world, women are much less
likely to be enrolled in secondary school or
university than men.46 So, they typically work
in less lucrative occupations. Moreover, labor
markets may themselves be discriminatory,
paying women less than men for the same
work. For these reasons, even when women
participate in the labor market, they earn less

Inequity within countries: individuals and groups

than men. Low earnings are a further disincentive for women to enter the labor market,
perpetuating traditional social roles.

Figure 2.13 Women work longer hours than do men
Women Men
Nonmarket
activity

Inequality in the home
For a long time, economists did not adequately recognize that gender inequity has an
impact in the home, and models of the
household assumed that decisions were taken
by one person—with no room for different
choices across spouses. The consequence of
this world view is not just academic. It suggests, for instance, that policy interventions
that attempt to alleviate poverty should not
bother with targeting by gender—or suggests
that taxes on a household will not affect the
allocation of resources within it.
Economists now question this view,
developing models of household decision
making that allow for inequality between
spouses. The new models start with the
assumption that households are efficient, in
the sense that they make decisions that maximize the use of the household’s resources.
With this assumption, the models show that
a spouse’s share in household resources is
determined by two factors. The first is the
fallback option for the spouse in the event of
divorce—laws of inheritance, property, and
divorce would matter here. Second is the relative size of the spouse’s contribution to the
household’s income, which is determined by
their opportunities in the labor market.47 If
husbands and wives have different preferences, an increase in a woman’s outside
options or in her labor market opportunities should reflect consumption choices
more in line with her preferences.
Econometric work confirms that an increase in a woman’s relative worth and an
improvement in her fallback options have
effects on consumption patterns.48 The
health of Brazilian children improves when
additional nonlabor income is in the hands of
women.49 In the United Kingdom, when legislation ensured that child support payments
were made directly to mothers, expenditures
on children’s clothing tended to rise.50 In
Bangladesh and South Africa, women bringing more assets into the marriage increase
household expenditures on children’s education.51 The patterns seem to indicate that,
when women are better off, children seem to

53

Market Market
activity activity

Nonmarket
activity

Australia
Austria
Bangladesh
Canada
Colombia
Denmark
Finland
France
Germany
Guatemala
Indonesia
Israel
Italy
Kenya, rural
Kenya, urban
Nepal, rural
Nepal, urban
Netherlands
Norway
Philippines
United Kingdom
United States
R.B. de Venezuela
400

0
Minutes a day

400

Source: United Nations Development Programme (1995).
Note: Data refers to rural Bangladesh in 1990, urban Colombia 1983, rural Guatemala 1977, urban Indonesia 1992, rural
Kenya 1988, urban Kenya 1986, rural Nepal 1978, urban Nepal 1978, rural Philippines 1975–77, urban Venezuela 1983,
Australia 1992, Austria 1992, Canada 1992, Denmark 1987, Finland 1987-88, France 1985–86, Germany 1991–92, Israel
1991–92, Italy 1988–89, the Netherlands 1987, Norway 1990–91, the United Kingdom 1985, and the United States 1985.

benefit more than when men are better off.
The most obvious way to explain bargaining
and sharing is to assume that women intrinsically care more about children than men do,
but this risks being tautological.
Perhaps the explanation can benefit from
understanding that social and economic differences outside the household can matter
not only for determining bargaining power
but also for socially determined perceptions
of what men and women consider important. If men and women occupy different
“outside” and “inside” spheres of influence, it
seems to make sense that improvements in
women’s incomes would have a greater
impact on investments in the household.
Improvements in the income of men, by
contrast, are more likely to result in socializing activities outside the home and in purchases that reflect social status.
Another consequence of this separation
between inside and outside roles is that

54

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Table 2.2 Percentage of women who have ever
experienced physical or sexual violence by an
intimate partner
Physical violence Sexual violence
Bangladesh, rural

42

Brazil, urban

27

10

Ethiopia, rural

49

59

Namibia, urban

31

17

Peru, rural

62

47

Samoa

41

20

Serbia and
Montenegro

23

6

Tanzania, urban

33

23

Thailand, rural

34

29

Source: Unpublished data from the WHO Multi-Country Study on
Women’s Health and Domestic Violence Against Women obtained
from a presentation by Claudia Garcia-Moreno at the World Bank’s
Conference on Gender-Based Violence. The final published comparative report is forthcoming.
Note: Data refer to different time periods. Brazil, Peru, and Thailand
refer to 2000. Reference period for Bangladesh, Ethiopia, Namibia,
Samoa, Serbia and Montenegro, and Tanzania are unknown.

inequalities in the home are also manifested
in differences in access to information,
which can be used to manipulate intrahousehold bargaining. In an ethnographic
study of Bangladeshi garment workers,
Kabeer (1997) found that men and women
tried to control information about their
incomes from their spouses so that they
could make purchases without consulting
them. Women may also hesitate to share
information with their husbands, or to collaborate efficiently in farming their plots of
land, to retain control over their property. In
studying the farms owned by men and those
owned by women in Ghana, Udry (1996)
found, keeping other things constant, that
women-owned farms were less productive
than those owned by men. When wives and
husbands are not sharing information, or
manipulating the flow of information, they
clearly are not using their resources optimally. In other words, intrahousehold
behavior is not efficient—contradicting an
important assumption in economic models.
The widespread domestic violence in the
family is another type of inefficiency. Recent
World Health Organization (WHO) data
show that both physical and sexual violence
are widespread in diverse parts of the world
(table 2.2). An important reason for domes-

tic violence is that it allows husbands to
institute a regime of terror to control their
wives’ behavior. In India, Bloch and Rao
(2002) find that husbands systematically use
violence as a means of extracting a larger
dowry from their wives. This “instrumental”
use of violence has widespread acceptance
among both men and women. Surveys have
found that large percentages of respondents
in developing countries report that men
have the right to beat their wives when they
answer back or disobey them.52
Gender inequity is thus the result of an
overlapping set of economic, social, cultural,
and political inequalities that reinforce each
other. They cause women to have less access to
property rights, wealth, and education—and
limit their access to labor markets and to
spheres of activity outside the home. This, in
turn, constrains their ability to influence
household decisions. Also limiting this influence are asymmetries of information in the
household and the use of violence to control
women’s behavior. All of this maintains a clear
demarcation between the roles of women and
men, readily reproduced across generations.
There are some signs that changes in
labor markets and interventions by the state
can break this inequality trap. The development of the garment industry in Bangladesh
has resulted in a sharp and visible increase in
women’s access to a lucrative labor market,
expanding their ability to influence household choices.53 Higher wages for women
seem to compensate for restrictive practices,
such as purdah, by reducing limits on
women’s physical mobility, and increasing
their say in household decision making.54
Globalization has expanded opportunities
for women in Mumbai and increased their
access to schooling.55 A comparative study of
the Philippines, Sumatra, and Ghana found
that patterns of land inheritance and investments in schooling have became more egalitarian because of changes in labor market
opportunities for women.56 And although
China, Republic of Korea, and India started
out with similar discriminatory social structures, intervention by the state has improved
gender equity much more in China than in
Republic of Korea or India.57

Equity from a global
perspective

3

chapter

In examining the inequality of opportunities within countries, the previous chapter
emphasized people’s “predetermined circumstances,” or life chances beyond their
control, as distinct from their “efforts” and
“talents” as individuals. One of these circumstances is a person’s place of birth. In
many countries, access to basic public
health services, for example, is significantly
lower in rural areas than in urban areas.
That can mean much for surviving the first
year of life—the infant mortality rate in Rio
de Janeiro was 3.3 percent in 1996, less than
half the 7.4 percent in northeast Brazil.
But, just as being born in a village or a
city is one circumstance that should be
irrelevant to a person’s chances in life, being
born in a specific country is another. Why is
it objectionable for, say, Turkish women to
have inferior opportunities and outcomes
compared with Turkish men, but not so
objectionable if the comparison is between
Turkish men and English women? After all,
in many dimensions of well-being, major
differences in opportunities and outcomes
exist between citizens of different countries,
in some cases differences larger than those
between various groups within countries.
This chapter tries to answer two questions.
First, how much does one’s country of birth
determine one’s opportunities in life? Second,
does one’s country of birth mean less for life
chances today than in the near or distant
past? To answer these questions, we discuss
inequalities in health, education, income, and
power in the global arena. We show that the
inequalities between countries are staggering
despite some improvements over time.

Examples and concepts
There is no doubt that we live in a world
with massive inequalities in the opportuni-

ties to live a free, healthy, and fulfilled life.
As Angus Deaton writes,
We are living with appalling inequalities, in
which the poor of the world die of AIDS, and,
more broadly, where poor people around the
world die of diseases that are readily preventable elsewhere, including in the first-world
hospitals and clinics that serve the rich in
poor countries.1

In 2000 the life expectancy of a child born
in Sierra Leone (37 years) or Botswana (39
years) was less than half that for a child
born in the United States (77 years).2 The
average educational attainment (unconditional on quality of schooling) of an individual born in a Sub-Saharan country
between 1975 and 1979 is less than 6 years,
but more than 12 years in OECD countries. Inequalities in income are also high
among individuals in different parts of the
world.3
How do we view large average improvements in the world, set against this picture
of unacceptable inequalities between countries? Sen (2001) describes the current state
of the world while making the case for a
fairer distribution of the fruits of globalization: “Even though the world is incomparably richer than ever before, ours is also a
world of extraordinary deprivation and
staggering inequality.” He argues that
whether there have been some gains for all
is not as important as whether the distribution of gains has been fair. Inequalities in
affluence—and in political, social, and economic power among countries—are central to the debate on globalization. As long
as the sharing of potential gains from globalization is viewed as unfair by many, the
inequalities described in this chapter will
be deemed unacceptable. This, despite the
55

56

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

fact that absolute poverty has declined in
the last two decades—though by no means
uniformly.
To put global inequalities in well-being in
perspective, it helps to examine two countries at opposite ends of the spectrum—
Mali, one of the world’s poorest countries,
and the United States, one of the richest. A
baby born in Mali in 2001 had an approximately 13 percent chance of dying before
reaching age one, with this chance declining
only slightly (to 9 percent) even if the baby
were born to a family in the top quintile of
the asset distribution. By contrast, a baby
born in the United States the same year had
a less than 1 percent chance of dying in its
first year. The picture for under-five mortality is even more egregious: 24 percent of
children will not reach age five in Mali,
compared with less than 1 percent of American children. Even a child born into the
richest quintile in Mali is more than 16
times likely to die before age five than an
average American child.
The picture does not improve for education. The average American born between
1975 and 1979 has completed more than 14
years of schooling (roughly the same for
men and women, and in urban and rural
areas), while the average school attainment
for the same cohort in Mali is less than two
years, with women’s attainment less than
half that for men, and virtually zero in rural
areas. If one considers the quality of the
education received, the inequalities in learning achievement are possibly much larger.
It is not surprising, then, that many citizens of Mali, having survived immense
hardships as children and without much
education, can barely eke out a living as
adults, on average living on less than $2 a
day ($54 a month) in 1994. By comparison,
the average American earned $1,185 a
month, more than 20 times that for the
average Malian.
While there is probably some consensus
that inequalities in health, education,
income, and voice are large globally, there is
much less agreement on whether things
have been getting better or worse. Is one’s
country of origin more or less pertinent
today to the life chances that she faces at
birth than it was 20, 50, or 200 years ago?

The debate on inequalities in various
dimensions of well-being and their relation
to globalization rages on as you read this
report.4 It is indeed harder to assert whether
inequalities increased or decreased over
time. Various questions have to be answered
first: inequality of what, over which time
period, using which concept of inequality?
While there is some evidence of convergence
in opportunities in health and education
and some divergence in incomes (or at least
lack of convergence), these results cannot be
stated without many qualifications and
caveats. Box 3.1 introduces some underlying
concepts that need to be clarified.

Global inequalities in health
The unweighted and weighted international
distributions of life expectancy at birth
(ignoring the distribution of life expectancy
at birth within countries) both show a clear
“twin-peakedness” in 1960.7 Data show that
50 countries had life expectancies between
35 and 45 years, 41 countries had life
expectancies between 65 and 75 years, and
there was relatively little mass in the middle
of the distribution.
By 1980 the left-hand mode of the distribution had decreased considerably in size.
The distributions began to look more
right-skewed, unimodal, especially in the
weighted international distribution: 73
countries had a life expectancy between 65
and 75, compared with 31 countries between
55 and 65, and 35 countries between 45 and
55. But by 2000 the two modes become evident once again, especially in the unweighted
distribution, although there is more mass in
the right mode of the distribution.
In 1980, the average life expectancy in
four regions—Middle East and North Africa,
East Asia (excluding China and Japan),
South Asia, and Sub-Saharan Africa—was
below the world average.8 Between 1980 and
2000, rapid increases in life expectancy in the
first three of these regions were globally
inequality-reducing, while the decline of life
expectancy in Sub-Saharan Africa in the
1990s boosted inequality by stretching the
bottom tail of the distribution. By 2000,
only South Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa
were below the world average, with the difference in life expectancy at birth between

Equity from a global perspective

BOX 3.1

Three competing concepts of inequality: global, international, and intercountry

On the welfare gains from globalization, the
two sides of the debate often make
statements that are diametrically opposed, all
the while examining the same data. While
there are some differences in and problems
with data, the wide discrepancy in views on
the topic seems to stem from the fact that the
two sides do not share the same values about
what constitutes a just distribution of the
gains from globalization.
Considered here are three different
concepts of inequality, drawing from Milanovic
(2005) and Ravallion (2004a). Both authors, and
the globalization debate in general, discuss
these “competing concepts” in the domain of
incomes. But these concepts can be extended to
other dimensions, such as health and education
(especially for inequality between countries).
The conclusions one would draw in each of
these dimensions of well-being then depend on
the concept of inequality adopted. It is impossible for the two sides to communicate without
first making these concepts clear.
Has global income inequality increased or
not? Before we can answer this, we have to
define what we mean by global inequality and
how that differs from what we will call international and intercountry inequality.

Global inequality: forget country
boundaries, each person has his
or her real income
Global inequality is easy to define: simply forget
countries, line up all citizens of the world, and
calculate the inequality in the distribution of
their real incomes, adjusted for purchasing
power parity.5 The global inequality measures
that belong to the general entropy class, such as
a mean log deviation or Theil’s index, can be
neatly decomposed into inequality attributable
to inequalities between persons within each
country and the mean differences of income
between countries (Shorrocks 1980).
Within-country inequality is what the overall
inequality in the world would be if there were
no differences in mean consumption across
countries but each country had its actual
inequality level. Between-country inequality can
be interpreted as measuring what the level of
inequality in the world would be if everyone
within each country had the same (the countryaverage) consumption level.Total inequality in
the world is the sum of these two parts, and the
ratios of the respective parts to total inequality
provide a measure of the percentage contribution of between-country and within-country
inequality to total inequality.

International inequality: each person has
his or her country’s mean income
Throughout the rest of the report, we will refer
to this between-country inequality as interna-

tional inequality, the inequality in the distribution of all of the world’s citizens, but with each
person assigned the mean income of his/her
country instead of his/her own income. Global
inequality is calculated by simply adding international inequality to within-country inequality.

Intercountry inequality: each country has
one representative at its mean income
These two concepts, however, are not enough to
settle the debate.Think of the following statement in support of the argument that inequality
in the world has been increasing:“The GDP per
capita of the richest country in the world was
about 9 times that of the poorest around 1870
compared with 45 times by 1990.”6 Notice that
while this statement seems to be referring to
something akin to international inequality, there
is a subtle but very important difference: the
size of the richest or the poorest country plays
no role in this statement.The statement remains
the same whether the richest country is Palau
and the poorest country is Jamaica, or whether
they are China and India.
This is why a third concept is needed. In this
concept, all countries of the world (instead of all
citizens) line up together, and each of them is
assigned her mean income. We will call the
inequality in this distribution (of roughly 200 or
so countries of the world) intercountry inequality. Milanovic (2005) refers to our intercountry,
international, and global inequality concepts as
Concept 1, Concept 2, and Concept 3 inequality,
respectively (see figure below).

Why use intercountry inequality
The implicit value judgment in using intercountry inequality instead of international
inequality is that countries, not people, should
get equal weight in assessing the fairness of

Three concepts of inequality illustrated

Intercountry inequality:
Three countries and three representatives
with mean incomes (height)

International inequality:
Entire population included,
but with mean incomes

Global inequality:
All individuals with their actual income
Sources: Milanovic (2005) and Ravallion (2004a).

the division of the gains from globalization.
The measures most widely quoted by the critics of globalization treat each country as one
observation, while decompositions of world
inequality into between-country and withincountry components described above give
people equal weight, whether they live in
China or Chad.
Note that in the globalization debate, the
choice of the measure of inequality can also
depend on the question one is trying to
answer. If one is interested in the impact of
some “globalizing” policies on growth or distributional outcomes at the country level, it might
be preferable to use a measure of intercountry
inequality.

Why use international inequality—
as we do in this report?
Alternatively, if we are trying to determine
whether world poverty or inequality decreased
as a result of “globalizing” policies, then we
might be more inclined to examine measures of
international inequality.

No right or wrong choice
Arguments can be made in favor of each of
these two concepts when assessing trends in
inequality between countries. This choice is not
a matter of what is right or wrong. When it
comes to judging inequality, intelligent people
can disagree about whether countries or people should be weighted equally—something
that Ravallion (2004a) argues in detail. The
point: the judgments (or the questions of interest) that affect the choice of the inequality concept employed in empirical work matter greatly
to the assessment one can make about the distributive justice of current globalization
processes.

57

58

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Figure 3.1 Vanishing twin peaks in life expectancy at birth
1960

1980

2000

Estimated density, unweighted
0.05

0.05

0.05

0.04

0.04

0.04

0.03

0.03

0.03

0.02

0.02

0.02

0.01

0.01

0.01

0.00

0.00

0.00

29 35 41 47 53 59 65 71 77 83 89
µ = 50.2

29 35 41 47 53 59 65 71 77 83 89
µ = 62.3

29 35 41 47 53 59 65 71 77 83 89
µ = 66.4

1960

1980

2000

Estimated density, weighted
0.05

0.05

0.05

0.04

0.04

0.04

0.03

0.03

0.03

0.02

0.02

0.02

0.01

0.01

0.01

0.00

0.00
27 33 39 45 51 57 63 69 75 81 87
µ = 53.4

0.00
27 33 39 45 51 57 63 69 75 81 87
µ = 61.0

27 33 39 45 51 57 63 69 75 81 87
µ = 64.8

Source: Schady (2005).

these two regions having increased from 5.8
years to 15.6. Between-country inequality
declined until the early 1990s and then
increased back to its 1980 level by 2000. The
large decline in life expectancy at birth in
Sub-Saharan Africa more than offset the
inequality-reducing effect of growth in
South Asia in the 1990s.
Over a longer period (1820–1992) Bourguignon, Levin, and Rosenblatt (2004a)
show tremendous gains in life expectancy at
birth (rising from approximately 27 years to
61 years), unequally distributed at first,
then equalizing in three waves between late
nineteenth century and 1990. Decades of

Table 3.1 Increases in life expectancy at birth slowed down dramatically in the 1990s
1960

1970

1980

1990

2000

Mean

53.4

57.4

61.0

64.0

64.8

Coefficient of variation

0.233

0.203

0.183

0.173

0.194

Theil-T

0.027

0.021

0.017

0.016

0.020

Theil-L

0.028

0.022

0.018

0.017

0.021

Source: Schady (2005).
Note: Theil-L and Theil-T are two inequality measures that belong to the general entropy class, with parameters 0 and
1, respectively (unweighted).

consistent improvements in life expectancy
at birth came to a screeching halt in the
1990s (table 3.1). Between-country inequality among developing countries is as high as
it has ever been since 1960.
So, there is some convergence in life
expectancy at birth over a long period,
although there are significant losses in the
1990s in Sub-Saharan Africa, mainly caused
by AIDS, and in some European and Central
Asian countries.9 With the developed countries reaching a biological limit at the top of
the distribution and many regions catching
up to them, the inequality of life expectancy
in the world will become more a function of
changes in health and population growth in
Sub-Saharan Africa—barring a major health
catastrophe elsewhere in the world. (We
revisit this issue at the end of the chapter.)
But for now there remain two worlds with
significantly different life expectancies: the
gap in life expectancy between Sub-Saharan
Africa and Europe and North America in
2000 is higher than it was in 1950.10
Health outcomes of even the rich citizens in poor countries remain well below

Equity from a global perspective

the average in OECD countries. For example, for all countries with average per capita
GDP below the $2 a day threshold, the child
mortality rate of the richest 20 percent of
the population is more than 10 times the
OECD average of six years.11 While this is
also certainly the case with many other
indicators, it is difficult to make statements
about how large differences between countries are in comparison with inequalities
within countries. Unlike the income
inequality literature, there are no accepted
practices for decomposing inequalities in
health into within-country and betweencountry components.12
Consider, however, a simple thought
experiment. In the 45 developing countries
for which a Demographic Health Survey
was available in 2000, 4.9 million infant
deaths could be prevented by bringing their
infant mortality levels to the OECD average. But if one eliminated the infant mortality gap between the rich and the poor
within each of the same countries by lowering the infant mortality rate for everyone to
the level of the top decile, 3.1 million infant
deaths could be prevented.13 While the
average infant mortality rate for the rich in
these poor countries is almost five times
larger than the OECD average, it seems
that eliminating within-country differences
between the rich and the poor (by improving the health of the poor), at least in this
particular case, would get us about twothirds of the way to the number of total preventable deaths (by moving everyone to the
OECD average).
So, while large differences in health outcomes remain between countries and within
them, it is not possible to make definitive
statements about the relative weight of
these components in global health inequalities. One can say, however, that there is no
clear presumption that inequalities between
countries dwarf those within them. This
finding, as we will see later in this chapter,
stands in sharp contrast to that in incomes
but is congruent with that in education.
While technical change in private and
public health knowledge may be more
important to account for the overall better
health,14 income may be important in the
poorest countries, through its impact on

59

Figure 3.2 Life expectancy is highly correlated with income, particularly in poor countries
Life expectancy, 2000
85
Argentina

Mexico

Japan
Spain
Germany
Rep. of Korea

75
China

United States

Brazil
Russia

65
Pakistan
India
55

Gabon
South Africa
Namibia

45

Botswana
35
0

10,000

20,000

30,000

GDP per capita, 2000, current PPP $
Source: Deaton (2004).
Note: The curve is nonparametrically fitted, weighted by population. The figure plots country life expectancy (using
circles whose size is proportional to population) against GDP per capita in purchasing power parity (PPP) dollars at the
turn of the twenty-first century.

the adoption of even inexpensive techniques, adequate nutrition, and water and
sanitation infrastructure. Life expectancy
increases steeply with income among the
poorest countries (figure 3.2).15
But differences in income growth explain less than a sixth of the variation in
improvements in life expectancy at birth.
More important determinants are clean
water, health systems, demand for adequately operated and equipped health systems, and basic sanitary knowledge, the latter two having much to do with education,
particularly women’s education.16
While life expectancy at birth continued
to increase, and the infant and child mortality rates declined, the last decade of the
twentieth century has seen a divergence
between rich and poor countries.17 The difficulties faced by Europe and Central Asia
countries during transition, and the spread
of HIV/AIDS and civil conflicts, were major
factors in this, but they are not solely
responsible.18 Cornia and Menchini (2005)
cite changes in health spending, public
health programs, and the structure and stability of households as possible reasons for
the slowdown in health progress in developing countries.

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

60

Figure 3.3 The distribution of years of schooling improved greatly in the second half of the twentieth century
1960
Estimated density, unweighted

1980

2000

0.20

0.20

0.20

0.15

0.15

0.15

0.10

0.10

0.10

0.05

0.05

0.05

0.00

0.00
01

3

5 7
µ = 3.3

9

11 13

0.00
0 1

3

1960
Estimated density, weighted

5 7
µ = 4.6

9

11 13

0 1

1980
0.20

0.20

0.15

0.15

0.15

0.10

0.10

0.10

0.05

0.05

0.05

0.00

0.00
3

5 7
µ = 4.4

9

11 13

5 7
µ = 6.3

9

11 13

9

11 13

2000

0.20

01

3

0.00
0 1

3

5 7
µ = 5.6

9

11 13

0 1

3

5 7
µ = 6.6

Source: Schady (2005).

Global inequalities in education
The unweighted distribution of adult
school attainment was clearly left-skewed
in 1960 (figure 3.3). This reflects the fact
that many countries, particularly in Africa
and Asia, had mean years of schooling close
to zero. The weighted distribution, like that
for life expectancy at birth, was bimodal,
with one peak around two years of mean
schooling and a smaller peak around eight
years.
Figure 3.4 Mean years of schooling increased while inequality declined across birth cohorts
Inequality in years of schooling
1.0

Mean years of schooling

Inequality in years of schooling

9

0.8

8

0.6

7

0.4

6

0.2

Mean years of schooling

5

0.0
4
1935–9 1940–4 1945–9 1950–4 1955–9 1960–4 1965–9 1970–4 1975–9
Year of birth
Source: Araujo, Ferreira, and Schady (2004).
Note: Inequality in years of schooling is measured using GE (0.5), that is, the general entropy class inequality measure
with an inequality aversion parameter of 0.5.

Many of these countries saw large increases in enrollments in the 1960s, 1970s,
and 1980s. As these younger cohorts aged,
the mean years of schooling in their countries increased, and the skewness in the
unweighted international distribution of
schooling disappeared. Note that the bimodal distribution of schooling across persons (weighted by population) persisted
until the 1990s and then gave way to a unimodal distribution only by 2000.
By any measure the international distribution of years of schooling has undergone
dramatic changes between 1960 and 2000.
As mean levels have risen, inequality has
fallen, decade after decade (figure 3.4). The
mean years of educational attainment for
the world almost doubled from 3.4 to 6.3
(table 3.2). Sub-Saharan Africa, the Middle
East and North Africa, and South Asia
started with high inequalities (not shown
here) and reduced them over time—the
Middle East and North Africa region was
particularly successful. Latin America and
the Caribbean and East Asia also had some
inequalities, which they essentially eliminated for their youngest cohorts. Despite the
progress, mean levels of educational attain-

Equity from a global perspective

ment in Sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia
remain low even for the youngest cohorts.
While significant disparities remain in
educational attainment across countries
despite evidence of significant catch-up by
poorer countries in the past half century,
there is also large variation within countries
(chapter 2). In fact, less than 20 percent of
the inequality in educational attainment
between adults born between 1935 and
1979 is attributable to that between countries, a share that has been steadily declining
over time. While both inequality within and
between countries is declining, the rate of
convergence in country means has been
faster.
The story remains the same when decomposing inequality in educational attainment
into inequalities between men and women.
Roughly a quarter of global inequality in educational attainment is attributable to differences between men and women, but this gap
is again declining over time, from 31 percent
in the oldest cohort in our sample, to 16 percent in the youngest. But there are large differences in this convergence by region (figure
3.5). While Latin America and the Caribbean,
East Asia, and Europe and Central Asia seem
to have reached gender parity in education,
along with other developed countries, the
progress in South Asia, Sub-Saharan Africa,
and the Middle East and North Africa has
been slower. Women still lag far behind men
in educational attainment.
It should not be assumed that high
attainment necessarily implies high achievement, and vice versa. An analysis of the relationship between attainment (measured by
the percentage of 25 to 34 year olds with
upper-secondary education) and achievement (measured by reading proficiency of
15 year olds) in 27 OECD countries (plus
Brazil) shows a rank correlation coefficient
between these two variables of 0.57. It is
clear that the rankings of countries according to these two indicators are not the same.
The Republic of Korea and Japan (at the top
of the OECD distribution) and Mexico, Portugal, and Turkey (at the bottom) have similar ranks for both attainment and achievement. But the Czech Republic, Norway, and
the United States do worse in achievement
than attainment. And achievement rankings

61

Table 3.2 Mean years of schooling increased continuously while inequality declined
1960

1970

1980

1990

2000

Mean

3.38

3.82

4.67

5.55

6.30

Coefficient of variation

0.739

0.705

0.612

0.518

0.461

Theil-T

0.281

0.259

0.195

0.143

0.115

Theil-L

0.392

0.365

0.250

0.179

0.144

Source: Schady (2005).
Note: Theil-L and Theil-T are two inequality measures that belong to the general entropy class, with parameters 0 and
1, respectively (unweighted).

Figure 3.5 Gender disparities in years of schooling declined
but remained significant in some regions
Male to female schooling ratio
OECD
East Asia
Europe and Central Asia
South Asia
Latin America and the Caribbean
Middle East and North Africa
Sub-Saharan Africa
4

3

2

1
1935–9 1940–4 1945–9 1950–4 1955–9 1960–4 1965–9 1970–4 1975–9
Year of birth
Source: Araujo, Ferreira, and Schady (2004).

of Australia, Finland, and Ireland are much
higher than their rankings in attainment.
Achievement differences between developing countries and OECD countries remain strikingly large. Using internationally
comparable assessments of reading, mathematics, and science, Pritchett (2004b)
shows that developing countries do not just
constitute the lower tail of the learning distribution, but that most actually do far worse
than the poorest performing OECD countries. For example, children in Argentina,
Mexico, and Chile perform about two
(OECD) standard deviations below children in Greece—one of the poorest performing countries in the OECD. In reading
competence (based on PISA 2001), the

62

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

average Indonesian student performed at
the level of a French student at the seventh
percentile. Considering children who have
never attended school, those who enrolled
but dropped out, and those who completed
grade nine but whose test scores remain
more than one standard deviation below
the OECD mean in mathematics, Pritchett
finds that 96 percent of 15 to 19 year olds in
Morocco lack achievement in “adequate
learning.”19

Global inequalities
in income and expenditure
The answers to basic questions—such as
whether income inequality has been increasing or decreasing—depends, among other
things, on which concept of inequality is
under the microscope: intercountry inequality (in the distribution of unweighted country means), international inequality (in the
distribution of country means weighted by
their population size), or global inequality
(in the distribution of individual incomes).
We start the discussion by presenting the
median and mean incomes of selected
countries by region for a range of years

between 1997 and 2002, as well as the dispersion of those incomes within each country (figure 3.6). Large differences across
countries and across people within countries are striking. For example, an individual in the tenth percentile in the U.S.
distribution enjoys a level of income higher
than an individual earning the mean
income in Brazil or Argentina.20 While a
Chinese individual living in a rural area has
a mean income similar to an average Cambodian, an urban Chinese enjoys a similar
income to an average Brazilian.21 A South
African at the bottom of the income distribution in her country earns as much as the
average individual in Mali while a South
African at the ninetieth percentile of that
income distribution enjoys a standard of
living (in income) comparable to that of a
median Irish individual.
The difference in the evolution of intercountry (unweighted) and international
(weighted) inequality between 1950 and
2000—borrowing from Milanovic (2005),
who calls this the “mother of all inequality
disputes”—could hardly be more dramatic
(figure 3.7). When countries are the unit of

Figure 3.6 Incomes range broadly across countries and individuals
Sub-Saharan Africa

South Asia

East Asia
Latin America and
the Caribbean
Middle East and
North Africa
Europe and
Central Asia
OECD countries

Mali
Ethiopia
South Africa
Cambodia
India, rural
Pakistan
India, urban
China, rural
Indonesia
China, urban
Nicaragua
Argentina
Brazil
Yemen
Morocco
Israel
Russia
Albania
Poland
Ireland
Denmark
United States
0

250

500

750

1000

1250

1500

1750

2000

2250

2500

Income per capita (1993 PPP $)
Source: Authors’ calculations.
Note: Years range from 1997 to 2002 as measured by adjusted (1993 PPP $) monthly per capita income (blue box) or consumption (orange
box). The lowest point of each line represents the income level at the tenth percentile, followed by that at the median, the mean (the two
edges of each box), and the ninetieth percentile (top of each line).

Equity from a global perspective

Figure 3.7 Since 1950, intercountry inequality
increased, while international inequality declined

Figure 3.8 Unlike relative inequality, absolute
inequality has been steadily increasing

Gini index
0.6

Indexes, 1970 = 100
Kolm index (0.3)
Kolm index (3.0)
Absolute Gini index
Gini index
Theil index
Mean logarithmic
deviation

International inequality
(weighted)
International inequality
without China and India
0.5

Absolute
measures
Relative
measures

250
225
Intercountry inequality
(unweighted)

200

1950 1955 1960 1965 1970 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000

175

0.4

Source: Milanovic (2005).

150

observation, (intercountry) inequality has
been undeniably increasing, especially since
the 1980s. But international inequality has
been steadily declining, thanks mostly to
the income growth in some populous countries, mainly China and India. Note that
intercountry inequality and international
inequality without China and India track
each other quite closely from 1980 onward,
coinciding with the period of rapid growth
in these two countries, the slower average
growth in other developing countries, and
the declines in measured output in Eastern
Europe and former Soviet Union countries.
If Luxembourg and Nicaragua, at opposite ends of the world income distribution,
grew at the same annual rate of 2 percent
per capita a year for the next 25 years, the
per capita yearly incomes in Luxembourg
would increase from $17,228 (PPP-adjusted)
to $28,264, an increase of more than
$10,000 dollars. That of Nicaragua, by contrast, would increase by a mere $375, from
$573 to $940, during the same period.
Atkinson and Brandolini (2004) note that
“with annual per capita growth rates of 5
percent in China and 2 percent in the
United States, the absolute income gap
between the two countries would widen for
a further 41 years before starting to narrow,
to finally disappear in 72 years.”
The evaluative judgments drawn about
the distributional changes associated with
globalization may depend crucially on
whether one thinks about inequality in

125
100
75
1970

1975

1980

1985

1990

1995

2000

Source: Atkinson and Brandolini (2004).

absolute terms or relative terms. There is no
economic theory that tells us that inequality
is relative, not absolute. Again, as with intercountry and international inequality, it is
not that one concept is right and the other
one wrong. Nor are they two ways of measuring the same thing. Instead, they are two
different concepts. The revealed preferences
for one concept over another reflect implicit
value judgments about what constitutes a
fair division of the gains from growth.
Those judgments need to be brought into
the open and critically scrutinized before
one can take a well-considered position in
this debate.
An examination of international inequality using absolute rather than relative measures of inequality reveals a steady increase
over the long run, as well as in recent
decades—this latter finding contrasts with
relative international inequality trends. Atkinson and Brandolini (2004) find that absolute
indexes of inequality, such as the Absolute
Gini and the Kolm Index22 (with various
parameters of inequality aversion), have been
increasing steadily since 1970 (figure 3.8).23

63

64

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

What happened to global inequality in
the past 20 years or so has been the subject
of fierce debate in the context of globalization and is perhaps the hardest question to
answer. Some authors24 claim that global
inequality increased slightly, while others25
argue that they have declined.
Examining global inequality requires
knowledge of the distribution of inequality within each country. Household surveys that collect such data are a relatively
new phenomenon, having become more
common since the 1980s even in developing countries. So, if we want to know
about the distribution of income for
everyone in the world, we are confined to
a much shorter time period. We have
selected three waves, similar to those used
by Milanovic (2005): 1986–1990, 1991–96,
and 1997–current.
Global inequality (measured by the
mean log deviation) did not change significantly over this period, although there is a
slight decrease between 1993 and 2000
(figure 3.9). The mean log deviation for
the world would have increased without
China and India, consistent with the consensus in the literature that international
inequality declined in this period thanks
largely to these two countries. But if global
inequality stayed roughly the same while
international inequality declined, inequality within countries must have increased
by approximately the same amount—a
subject that we discuss below.
Figure 3.9 The inequality decline between countries
was neutralized by increases within countries
Mean log deviation

Percent

1.15
Between-country
share (right axis)

Global inequality
(left axis)
0.90 0.84
78
0.65

0.87

100
0.82

74

0.65

67

75

0.64
50
Between-country
0.55
inequality (left axis) Within-country
0.40
inequality (left axis)
25
0.27
0.22
0.19
0
0.15
1988 1990 1992 1994 1996 1998 2000
Source: Authors’ calculations.

Most of the world’s income inequality
can be explained by the differences in country means—that is, by international (or
between-country) inequality. Our estimates
show that the share of global inequality,
which can be attributed to inequality
between countries, declined steadily from
78 percent around 1988 to 74 percent
around 1993 and to 67 percent by around
2000. With global inequality staying roughly
the same during this period, within-group
inequality increased at a somewhat steady
pace (figure 3.9). These results are consistent with the evidence (in chapter 2) of
increasing inequality within countries in
many parts of the world, including
Bangladesh, China, the United Kingdom,
and the United States.
The between-country share of global
inequality is also consistent with Milanovic
(2005), who puts this figure at about 71 percent in 1998. It is possible that the
Milanovic figures overestimate betweencountry inequality because he assigns all
households in a decile the same income
instead of estimating a Lorenz curve (for
percentiles). Our results use slightly
improved data from Milanovic in three
aspects. First, for many countries, we calculate our welfare measures using raw data at
the household level, while Milanovic (and
many others) use grouped data. Second, we
incorporate more recent data for the current period, possibly providing an improvement in data quality, especially for Eastern
European countries. Third, for the countries with grouped data, we estimate Lorenz
curves instead of assigning everyone in the
group with the same income.26 That most
of the global inequality in incomes is
explained by between-country inequality
seems to be a robust finding in the literature, in stark contrast with the picture in
health and education.
Over a much longer period (1820–1992)
Bourguignon and Morrisson (2002) estimate that global inequality has been
steadily increasing, because of a rapid
increase in international inequality until
World War II, and then to smaller increases
in both within-country and international
inequality between 1970 and 1992 (figure
3.10).27 They also argue that international

Equity from a global perspective

inequality was essentially negligible at the
turn of the nineteenth century (accounting
for roughly 12 percent of global inequality),
but that it increased very rapidly until
World War II, and then continued to
increase, but at a much slower pace. Within
country inequality, however, reached its
peak around 1910 and declined dramatically between the two world wars (mainly
because of equalizing forces in the nowdeveloped countries), and started creeping
back up only since the 1970s. The combined
effect of these changes is an increase in the
share of international inequality from
roughly 10 percent in 1820 to more than 60
percent by 1992.
In summary, while the world got richer,
income inequality—relative and absolute,
international and global—increased tremendously over a long period of time
(1820–1992). But the story is less clear-cut
for a more recent time frame. In the
post–World War II era, intercountry inequality (unweighted) has continued to increase
while international inequality (weighted for
population) declined. International inequality declined in the final decades of the
twentieth century, because the inequalityreducing effects of income growth in
China and South Asia more than offset the
inequality-boosting effects of continued
steady income growth in the now-developed
countries and the declining incomes in SubSaharan Africa.
Pritchett (1997), examining the period
between 1870 and 1990, argues that while
there was convergence of incomes for
today’s developed countries (what Maddison 1995 calls the “advanced capitalist”
countries), the growth rates between developed and developing economies show considerable divergence. He provides evidence
that “the growth rates of developed countries are bunched in a narrow group, while
those of less developed countries are all
over with some in explosive growth and
others in implosive decline.”28
Further evidence of convergence among
rich countries and divergence between rich
and poor countries comes from Schultz
(1998), who estimates that international
inequality accounted for about two-thirds
of total inequality (measured by log vari-

Figure 3.10 Inequality between countries became
much more important over the long run
Mean log deviation
1
0.83
0.8
Global inequality
0.6

0.69
Within-country inequality

0.42

0.50

0.36

0.4
0.37

0.33

0.33

0.2
0.05

Between-country inequality

0
1820 1850 1870 1890 1910 1929 1950 1960 1970 1980 1992
Source: Authors’ manipulation of data from Bourguignon and Morrisson (2002).

ance) between 1960 and 1990; however,
there also were large differences by region.
Inequality between the countries of OECD
(and the rest of Europe including Turkey)
decreased by 50 percent during this
period, at the end accounting for only onethird of total inequality. During the same
period, international inequality in SubSaharan Africa nearly doubled, causing its
share in total inequality to increase from
20 percent to 36 percent. In both SubSaharan Africa and Latin America and the
Caribbean, overall inequality levels remain
high, while high-income countries show
signs of convergence.
One can also examine inequality trends
by focusing on the mobility of countries
rather than by taking an anonymous
approach to inequality comparisons. Poor
countries’ mobility from the bottom has
been limited in the past 25 years. With the
exception of China, the six countries that
occupied the bottom decile (populationweighted) in 1980—all in Sub-Saharan
Africa—had no growth worth noting.29
While there is significant upward mobility between 1980 and 2002—the 97.08 percent entry in the first row of table 3.3 is
China—there is also troubling stagnation
and downward mobility. Note that approximately 8 percent of each of the second and
third income ranges fell into the bottom
range over these two decades. “It is clear
that no Pareto improvement has taken place
in the world between 1980 and 2002, which
leaves room for different value judgments

65

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

66

Table 3.3 Mobility matrix in absolute country per capita incomes, 1980 to 2002
Income in 2002
Income in 1980

<710

711–1,100

1,101–2,890

2,891–10,000

10,001>

<710

1.28%

711–1,100

8.23%

1.64%

0.00%

97.08%

0.00%

3.89%

87.88%

0.00%

1,101–2,890

0.00%

8.09%

0.56%

59.08%

32.28%

0.00%

2,891–10,000

0.00%

0.00%

0.98%

90.84%

8.17%

10,001>

0.00%

0.00%

0.00%

3.99%

96.01%

Source: Bourguignon, Levin, and Rosenblatt (2004a).
Note: Incomes are per capita (constant PPP dollars).

Figure 3.11 Absolute poverty declined globally, but not in every region
Headcount ($1 per day) in 2001

AFR
EAP
ECA
LAC
MENA
SAR

80

60

NGA
ZAM
MDG
CAF

NER
MWI

BF A

TZA
LSO

R WA

40

GHA

NIC

MOZ

UZB

ARG

0

BGD

CIV GAM
VEN YEM
MYS ZAF
MEX

RUS
UKR

COL

0

BWA

MON

MAU
GTM

Global inequalities in power

CHN

LAO

SEN

PHL

P AK

THA

TUR

VNM
EGY

SLE
JOR

ETH

CMR

BRA

KHM

IND
KEN

NAM

20

MLI

BDI

ZWE

LKA

MAR

20

40

60

While some populous countries, almost
exclusively in Asia, such as Bangladesh,
China, India, and Pakistan, made significant headway against extreme poverty,
almost all increases in extreme poverty—
especially in countries with high initial
headcount rates—took place in Sub-Saharan Africa.32 Among the larger countries
with rising headcount rates are Nigeria,
South Africa, and Tanzania.
If the poverty trends discussed here continue, the Millennium Development Goal of
halving the proportion of people living on
less than $1 a day will be met. But only East
and South Asia will reach this goal. We cannot be satisfied if this were to happen. Other
things equal, we would prefer to see the
poverty rate falling at the same pace in all
countries. Currently, hundreds of millions
of people in numerous developing countries
lack the opportunity to avoid hunger, poor
health, and low access to vital services, such
as education and clean water.33

80

Headcount ($1 per day) in 1981
Source: PovcalNet (http://iresearch.worldbank.org/PovcalNet/jsp/index.jsp).

about the evolution of world welfare,
inequality, and relative poverty.”30 Milanovic
(2005) also point out the “downward mobility” of many countries in the past 40 years or
so. Those who do not share the view that
inequality between countries fell in the past
20 to 25 years—that is, those who take the
“unweighted” view of the world—may have
such mobility concerns in mind.
Absolute poverty rates have declined in
the past 20 years or so, and a variety of
studies have confirmed this trend (figure
3.11).31 Overall, while there are roughly
400 million fewer people who live on less
than a $1 a day in 2001 than there were in
1981, the number of poor people in SubSaharan Africa almost doubled, from
approximately 160 million to 313 million.

One of the main arguments in the concluding chapter of this report is that the rules
and processes in global markets can be
unfair to developing countries. A country’s
power in decision making in multilateral
banks is usually correlated with its economic strength. Even when each country
has equal representation in an international
body, such as the United Nations system or
the World Trade Organization (WTO), powerful forces can chisel away at developingcountry interests (through separate bilateral agreements, for example). And the
capacity of developing countries to make
informed decisions can be limited.
Poor countries lack the financial and human
capital resources that would allow them to be
equal participants in the international bodies
in which decisions are taken that affect them
and, beyond that, in setting the rules under
which the international system operates.34

In the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)—the
market-lending arm of the World Bank—a
country’s voting power depends on the percentage of IBRD shares it holds. The largest
shareholders are the United States with 16.4

Equity from a global perspective

percent of the vote, Japan with 7.9 percent,
Germany with 4.5 percent, France and the
United Kingdom with 4.3 percent. Each has a
representative on the Board of Directors. By
contrast, all Sub-Saharan countries together
have two representatives and 5.2 percent of
the vote. China and India both have 2.8
percent of the vote.35 Country influence in
setting the agenda for the institutions is not
limited to board membership. A 1998 study by
Filmer and others (1998) shows that roughly
two-thirds of the senior management–level
positions at the World Bank are occupied by
citizens of Part I (mainly OECD) countries,
although these countries account for less
than one-fifth of the global population and
a smaller share of the number of member
countries.
At the WTO, each member country has
one vote. Moreover, because decisions are
by consensus, each country effectively has
veto power. So the WTO is, at least on
paper, perhaps the most democratic of
international organizations. In practice, the
ability of countries to influence the agenda
and decisions depends crucially on their
capacity to be present, to follow negotiations, to be informed, and to understand
fully the impact of the complex issues at
hand. A rough indicator of a country’s
capacity is the size of its representation in
Geneva. A study by Blackhurst, Lyakurwa,
and Oyejide (2000) found that only 8 of the
38 Sub-Saharan countries had close to five
(the WTO average) resident delegates listed
in the WTO directory. Worse, 19 of the 38
countries—half of the Sub-Saharan WTO
membership—had no delegate resident in
Geneva. Only Nigeria had a delegation that
deals solely with the WTO.36
Even when country representation in the
international arena is considered adequate,
it is debatable whether the representatives
of some countries are fully accountable to
their citizens. There are considerable differences among countries in the extent to
which their political and legal institutions
provide citizens with fair, transparent, and
inclusive environments to enhance and
leverage their assets. While there are numerous problems with trying to measure such
things, Kaufmann, Kraay, and Mastruzzi
(2004), in the most comprehensive compar-

Figure 3.12 There is no one-to-one relationship
between voice and income
Denmark
Ireland
United States
Poland
South Africa
Israel
India
Brazil
Mail
Argentina
Nicaragua
Albania
Morocco
Indonesia
Russia
Cambodia
Voice and
accountability
Income category

Yemen
Pakistan
Ethiopia
0

20

40

60

80

100

Source: Kaufmann, Kraay, and Mastruzzi (2004).
Note: “Voice and accountability” refers broadly to the extent to
which citizens have freedom of expression, a free press, and open
elections based on a statistical compilation of responses on the
quality of governance given by a large number of enterprise, citizen, and expert survey respondents in industrial and developing
countries, as reported by a number of survey institutes, think tanks,
nongovernmental organizations, and international organizations.
Countries’ relative positions on these indicators are subject to
margins of error that are clearly indicated. Consequently, precise
country rankings should not be inferred from these data.

ative assessment to date, integrate data collected by 25 separate sources constructed by
18 (commercial and advocacy) organizations. The authors used the data to provide
a common empirical basis to assess the relative differences among countries of the
quality of their “governance.”
Figure 3.12 summarizes information on
“voice and accountability,” which refers
broadly to the extent to which citizens have
freedom of expression, a free press, and
open elections, using standardized measures for selected countries (the same ones as
in figure 3.6). The upper bar for each country represents the country’s percentile rank
in the “voice and accountability” distribution with the intersecting black rule line
representing the confidence interval. The
lower bar is the average percentile score for
the income category to which the country
belongs.37 The top of the “voice” rankings is

67

68

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

filled with wealthy countries, such as Denmark, the United States, Ireland, and Israel.
The voice ranking of such countries as
South Africa, Poland, and especially Mali
and India exceed their ranks in incomes.
The opposite is true for China, Ethiopia,
Pakistan, and the Russian Federation. Cambodia and the Republic of Yemen are both
quite poor and rank low in freedom of
expression. It is clear that there is no oneto-one relationship between citizens’ voice
and average income at the country level.

A glimpse of the future
Despite improvements over time, inequalities among countries in various dimensions
remain unacceptably high. Each year 10.5
million child deaths are preventable in the
sense that these children would not have
died if they had been born in rich countries.38 The mean educational attainment
level for adults born in 1975–79 in SubSaharan Africa remains at 5.4 years, compared with 10.1 years in Latin America and
Caribbean and 13.4 years in developed
countries. Developing countries also face
massive challenges in influencing the global
rules and processes that determine outcomes, which matter greatly to the wellbeing of their citizens.
International inequalities in educational
attainment have been steadily declining.
This is also true in health—one’s country
of birth 50 years ago was much more pertinent to survival than it is today. In this
sense, opportunities across countries are
equalizing. But improvements in life
expectancy at birth have reversed since the
early 1990s, because of the devastating
effects of HIV/AIDS and the difficult circumstances facing citizens of some transition economies. The world distribution of
incomes, by contrast, was becoming secularly more unequal from the early nineteenth century until about the end of World
War II. Since the war, international inequality between countries has decreased
immensely, because of the fast growth in
China and India in more recent times, and
global inequality has leveled off. Because
China and India are only two countries,
intercountry inequality in incomes has continued to increase.

What explains the convergence in health
and education and the lack of it in incomes?
Deaton (2004) points out that, while gains
in income were undoubtedly important for
improving nutrition and funding better
water and sanitation schemes, some countries made progress in reducing child mortality even in the absence of economic
growth. These improvements came from
the globalization of knowledge, facilitated
by local political, economic, and education
conditions. A possible explanation for the
disconnect between the convergence in
education and the divergence in incomes is
that education is not translating into
human capital and that the rise in per
worker schooling explains only a small part
of the growth in output per worker.39
We have seen that the story of income
inequality in the world has been a story of
falling international inequalities and rising within-country inequality. For global inequality, these two effects are offsetting, and
the conclusion drawn depends on knowing
which effect dominated. The decline in international inequality is largely due to fast
income growth in China and South Asia.40
But as China and South Asia catch up to the
world average, their equalizing effect will
diminish. And if they continue to develop at
similar rates to that in the past two decades,
the effect of their growth will increase international inequality.41 Without the offsetting
effect of declining international inequality,
global inequality would also be on the rise
again unless inequality within countries
starts to decline and Sub-Saharan African
economies begin to experience healthy
growth. This suggests that the future of
world income inequality will increasingly
be a function of economic growth in Africa
(and some other low-income countries
under stress), especially if the population
growth rates in Africa remain above the
world average. That both population
growth and economic growth in Africa have
been stunted by the AIDS tragedy is doubly
disturbing.
On whether today’s poor countries with
stagnant economies will take off, some
researchers are optimistic. Lucas (2003)
suggests that the countries that have not yet
joined the industrial revolution (which he

Equity from a global perspective

attributes to socialist planning, lawlessness,
and corruption) will become the miracle
economies of the future. He reckons that
the growth rates in these catch-up countries
may be quite high and that they will also go
through a similar demographic transition
experienced by today’s developed countries.
The world population will stop rising and
world production growth will stabilize until
all countries, economically, start resembling
countries like the United States, thanks to
free trade and the diffusion of technology.
Pritchett—who calls this idea “advantage
to backwardness”42—remains more cautious. Conceding that such rapid gains in
productivity are a possibility, he argues that
“the cases in which backward countries, and
especially the most backward of countries,
actually gain significantly on the leader are
historically rare.”43 He observes that there
are also forces for “implosive” declines in
these countries, suggesting that backwardness may also carry “severe disadvantages.”
On health in Sub-Saharan Africa, the
UN Population Division projects that life
expectancy at birth in Africa will decline
over the next 5 to 10 years and then start
climbing again, reaching 65 years by about
2050.44 These projections assume that
HIV/AIDS prevalence rates in Africa will
peak sometime before 2010 and then
decline over the next decades. But the Joint
United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS
estimated that 43 percent of pregnant
females in 2000 were HIV positive in
Botswana and 19 percent in South Africa.45

Thus, millions of babies are being infected
at birth, which is mostly preventable with
proper interventions. Life expectancy in
Africa would not improve much, and certainly not soon, if these assumed improvements in HIV/AIDS prevalence rates do not
materialize.
Because South Asia has almost caught up
to the world average in life expectancy, SubSaharan Africa will be the only region significantly affecting health inequalities between
countries, barring a major catastrophe elsewhere.46 So, improvements in life expectancy
in Sub-Saharan Africa are the key to future
declines in international health inequalities.
Chapter 2 documented within-country
inequalities in health opportunities for children born to poor or rich parents, educated
or uneducated mothers, in rural or urban
areas, and so on. Steep gradients in health
opportunities and outcomes exist along
these dimensions in many countries. A confident assessment of past and future trends in
health inequality awaits future research.
If the trends that brought about the
catching up of many poor countries outside
of Africa continue in health, education, and
incomes, the biggest challenges will remain
in Africa and some poor countries in other
regions. Growth with equity needs to be
revived in stagnating economies around the
world, and the AIDS tragedy (along with
the folly of preventable diseases) needs to
be addressed urgently, especially in SubSaharan Africa. These remain the biggest
global challenges in development today.

69

focus 2 on

empowerment

Popular participation and equitable transitions at the local level
Promoting equity through public action requires changes in the existing configurations of power and influence. Because
established institutions privilege certain interests and marginalize others, making governance institutions more
democratic and more equity-enhancing calls for reforms that increase the possibilities for effective participation by traditionally marginalized groups.

L

ocal government is a critical domain
for the exercise of democratic rights
and for making effective public
choices. But several factors have conspired
against good governance, democracy, and
equity at the local level in much of the
developing world. The social and economic
power of local elites has often translated
into disproportionate influence over the
political process, and top-down, insulated,
and nontransparent decision-making
structures have made it difficult for ordinary citizens to have voice.1 Democratic
deepening in the developing world often
begins with the democratization of local
government, and that is precisely what two
participatory governance initiatives—in the
Indian state of Kerala and in a variety of
municipalities in Brazil—have tried to do.
In 1996 the state government of Kerala
launched what is widely viewed to be the
most ambitious initiative for democratic
decentralization in India: the People’s Campaign of Decentralized Planning. The government not only devolved significant
resources and authority to Kerala’s 1,214
panchayats (village councils) and municipalities, but it also promoted direct citizen
participation by mandating village assemblies and citizen committees to plan and
budget local development expenditures.
In Brazil, the city of Porto Alegre
launched a participatory budgeting initiative in 1990 that has since been copied in at
least 400 municipalities throughout the
country. The process begins with neighborhood assemblies in which citizens deliberate and set budgeting priorities, and ends
with a citywide budget formulated by delegates directly elected by neighborhood
assemblies. The success in Porto Alegre has
seen its steady diffusion, with at least 100
municipalities, including São Paulo, implementing variations of participatory budgeting in 1996–2000, and some estimated 250
municipalities in 2000–04.

These two initiatives have much in common. They were both conceived as direct
and conscious efforts to break with the
elite-dominated and clientelistic politics of
local government by promoting redistributive policies through broad popular participation. Thus, they both shifted the political
opportunity structure and involved action
to strengthen the agency of subordinate
groups.2 Both have, in effect, complemented representative forms of democracy
with participatory forms of democracy by
opening institutions to the direct engagement of civil society. And both have
strengthened public authority and public
action by increasing both the depth and
scope of democratic decision making.

Deepening democracy
The evidence shows that these initiatives
have deepened democracy, expanding the
range of social actors participating in the
political arena. In Porto Alegre, an estimated 100,000 adults have participated at
some point in the budgeting assemblies.
Other cities that have adopted some form
of the process have also experienced active
participation, including municipalities
without established civil societies. In
Kerala, nearly one in four households
attended village assemblies in the first two
years of the campaign, and despite routinization of the process in subsequent
years, these assemblies continue to draw
large numbers. Hundreds of thousands of
citizens have undergone training in planning and budgeting, and the committees
that actually design and budget specific
projects have been composed primarily of
civil society actors.
A redesign of institutional incentives and
new mobilizational efforts saw women
account for 40 percent of the participants in
village assemblies (a level otherwise unheard
of in India) and the participation rate of dalits (scheduled castes) has exceeded their

representation in the population.3 Moreover,
both these initiatives have created a new
cadre of grassroots politicians who either did
not exist before (delegates in Brazil) or who
previously had no powers (the 14,000
elected panchayat councilors in Kerala). The
local public sphere—the sine qua non of any
vibrant democracy—has become more
extensive, more inclusive, and more meaningful.

Extending democracy
These initiatives have been marked by the
extension of democracy, specifically public
decision making in arenas of authority previously dominated by private and state
elites. Municipal budgets in Brazil have long
been the preserve of oligarchic parties and
narrow sectoral interests. Panchayats in
Kerala have long been little more than passive recipients of top-down projects
designed and delivered by state bureaucracies. In both cases, citizens now have a voice
in determining how public resources are
allocated. In the most successful participatory budgeting cases, the entire budget of
the municipality is discussed and approved
by delegates acting on priorities established
by neighborhood assemblies, with citizens
deliberating on capital and operational segments of the budget.
In some municipalities, direct participation has been extended to thematic
areas, such as economic development,
public transportation, education, social
services, and urban planning. In Kerala,
panchayats have been given authority for
up to 35 percent of the development
budget, a fivefold increase in their
resources base. Panchayats have ranked,
designed, and implemented hundreds of
projects a year across all development sectors. These have included housing for the
poor, small-scale irrigation, local roads
and infrastructure, agricultural projects,
support services in health and education,

Focus on empowerment

and a range of projects specifically targeted at women and dalits.

Enhancing equity
These initiatives have generally had equityenhancing effects. In Porto Alegre, the best
known and most documented case, there is
clear evidence that expenditures on poorer
areas of the city increased steadily with the
introduction of participatory budgeting. In
other large cities with participatory budgeting, such as Belém and Belo Horizonte,
expenditures have also targeted the poor. A
statistical analysis of all Brazilian municipalities in 1997–2000 revealed that participatory budgeting cities had significantly
higher expenditures on sectors that affect
the poor most directly.4
In Kerala, a large survey of key respondents found that “disadvantaged” groups
were the prime beneficiaries of targeted
schemes. Case studies show that panchayats
have emphasized the need to bring all
households up to a certain basic level of
well-being, with a heavy emphasis on providing sanitation facilities, decent housing,
and safe water to needy families.
In both cases, there is also strong evidence
that the incidence of rent-seeking has fallen
sharply.5 The greater transparency of the
budgeting process alone has raised the transaction costs of predation and patronage.

Empowering the most
marginal groups
The Kerala and Porto Alegre cases illustrate
the value of improving the accessibility,
transparency, and accountability of local
government. However, even when such initiatives have been undertaken, and where

the economy is otherwise growing, the
most marginalized social groups—widows,
slum dwellers, sex workers, the very poor—
may continue to be excluded. What can be
done? The challenge is greater when the
extent of commitment from above and
mobilization from below is less than in
these two cases.
As discussed in chapter 2, the most marginal groups are often stuck in more severe
forms of an “inequality trap”—a situation
characterized by dire material circumstances, rational expectations about limited
mobility opportunities, and internalized
beliefs regarding the legitimacy and
immutability of their circumstances. Breaking out of such inequality traps and
improving the terms by which the poor are
“recognized” by others starts with building
both a “capacity to aspire” and, equally
important, a “capacity to engage.”6 This
includes being able to envision and enact
alternative futures, believing that it is desirable and possible to move out of poverty,
and being able to more meaningfully participate in forums where decisions affecting
their welfare are made.
Acquiring a “capacity to aspire” is largely
a product of developing more broadly
accessible and equitable mechanisms for
interaction between the poor and elites,
mechanisms that are reciprocally linked to
attaining greater voice in associational
interactions. It thrives in and through
group organizing and public dialogue, and
the opportunities these afford for practice,
repetition, exploration, conjecture, and
refutation.
An association of sex workers in a Calcutta slum, for example, gave its individual
members a voice, a public presence, and a

71

capacity to realize their interests and aspirations that would have been denied them
otherwise.7 Young, female, often illegal
immigrants, contractually bound to work
long hours for ruthless bosses, and facing
sure rejection by their families if they managed to escape and return home, the sex
workers had virtually no capacity to exercise their voices and realize their interests.
Persistent efforts to organize the women
into a union, however, eventually gave them
the confidence and competence to bring
about a change in condom use by clients.
In Indonesia, the Kecamatan Development Project (KDP), which operates in
28,000 villages across the country, seeks to
improving the “terms of recognition” and
political agency of marginalized groups. 8
The project allocates grant money at the
subdistrict level, for which several groups of
poor villagers (two of whom must be
women) are invited to compete for funds
on the basis of the presentation of a formal
subproject proposal. KDP’s procedures,
institutions, and norms are largely decentralized, they focus on joint public problem
solving, they invite broad public participation and scrutiny, and they occur in a more
or less continuous and institutionalized
way.9
Recent work assessing the impact of
KDP on local decision making finds that
KDP helps marginalized groups cultivate
access to more constructive spaces and procedures for addressing project and nonproject conflicts.10 The beginning stage of
such a transformation—in which unequal
groups build the capacity to peacefully
engage one another—is a humble but nontrivial outcome for a development project.

Why does equity matter?

II

PART

IN THE FIRST PART OF THIS REPORT, WE SUMMARIZED some of the evidence on inequalities in several dimensions. In addition to affecting
well-being directly, such dimensions as health, education, income,
voice, and access to services shape the opportunities people face for
future progress and achievement. We emphasized the interconnections
between these various dimensions. Not only is there inequality in the
distributions of income, health status, and educational attainment,
but—even more important—these indicators tend to be correlated.
The rich tend to be both healthier and better educated than others.
The poorest of the poor tend to have the lowest attainment in years of
schooling and some of the worst health indicators. These correlations
generally also extend to public services, with the poor gaining access to
infrastructure, electricity, water, sanitation, and garbage disposal much
later than others, if at all.
Because education and wealth help a person gain influence in society, voice and political power are also generally thought to be correlated
with economic well-being. The interaction between these mutually
reinforcing economic, social, and political inequalities perpetuates
them across generations. Chapter 2 discussed evidence indicating that a
10 percent difference in economic status between two families in one
generation tends to imply, on average, a 4 percent to 7 percent difference in the next generation, depending on the country and measurement details. Opportunities clearly are not independent from social
and family background, or from group identity.
Do such disparities matter? Are people concerned with the large
observed differences in access to education and health, and in economic opportunities, or merely with the fact that some people have
low absolute levels of income, years of schooling, and access to services? Should policymakers worry about the unequal opportunities

74

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

that arise from discrimination, unequal
access to justice or other unfair processes?
Should an institution like the World Bank,
whose primary objective is to assist its client
countries in eradicating extreme poverty,
care about inequalities—in opportunities,
outcomes, and processes—at all?
Opinions on these questions are wideranging. Support for equal opportunities
has long been a theme in domestic policy
in the United States, for instance. Franklin
D. Roosevelt once said that “We know that
equality of individual ability has never
existed and never will, but we do insist that
equality of opportunity still must be
sought.” 1 Some participants in the consultations for this report were even offended
that the question “Does inequality matter?” was asked at all, because they considered its answer to be “Obviously, yes.” One
participant felt that the very question indicated that “we are suffering [from] a terrible tolerance to horror.”2
The next three chapters in this report
address the following question: should
good development policy be concerned
with equity? Equity, as discussed in chapter
1, is understood here as the pursuit of equal
opportunities and the avoidance of severe
deprivation. Equity is not the same as equality in incomes, or in health status, or in any
other specific outcome. It is the quest for a
situation in which personal effort, preferences, and initiative—rather than family
background, caste, race, or gender—
account for the differences among people’s
economic achievements. A situation in
which all institutions are color-blind and
nonmarket institutions are equally responsive to the rich and the poor. In which personal and property rights are enforced
equally for all. And in which all have access
to the public services and the infrastructure
to leverage their productivity and their
chances of success in the markets.
The evidence we review here has been
assembled in disciplines ranging from economics and history to sociology and
anthropology. On balance, this evidence
suggests that the pursuit of sustainable,
long-term prosperity is inseparable from a
broadening of economic opportunities and

political voice to most or all of society. One
set of reasons for this arises from failures in
capital, land, and labor markets. Those failures imply that productive opportunities
are not necessarily seized by those with the
highest potential returns on their talents or
ideas, but instead by those with greater
wealth, better connections, or larger land
parcels. This would not happen if markets
worked perfectly, as resources would flow to
those with the most productive investment
projects. But given that markets are not perfect, scope arises for efficient redistribution
schemes.
Chapter 5 documents cases in which
aggregate efficiency could be improved by
redistributing wealth or power toward
poorer or marginal groups. Sometimes, the
evidence of inefficiency is seen in differences in marginal products of capital across
firms. We know that smaller entrepreneurs
pay interest rates much higher than the
marginal product of capital accruing to
other firms. We know that some farmers
allocate effort between plots in a way that is
not socially efficient, because they own one
plot and sharecrop in another. We have
experimental evidence suggesting that
groups discriminated against perform
below their own capacity, either because
they internalize the stereotype or because
they expect to be treated unfairly. Each of
these pieces of carefully researched empirical evidence, and others discussed in chapter 5, provide reasons why more equitable
economies would, in most cases, also be
more efficient.3
Chapter 6 complements this picture by
looking at historical evidence, suggesting
that large inequalities in political rights and
power give rise to exclusionary institutions
that generally impair development processes.
Greater political equality, by contrast, establishes limits on predation by the most powerful in each society. This tends to lead to
institutions that level the playing field and
provide opportunities for advancement and
mobility to those from underprivileged
backgrounds.
Such institutions seem to be associated
with more sustained growth. One example
comes from contrasting the exploitative

Why does equity matter?

labor practices of the Spanish conquistadores in the mining centers of their American colonies from the sixteenth to the eighteenth century, with the greater freedom
and opportunity afforded to early settlers in
North America. Another example of
inequitable treatment of citizens by the
state, which was also enormously costly for
efficiency, was the very high taxation of
poor African farmers by state-owned or
parastatal agricultural marketing boards in
Ghana, Nigeria, and Zambia, which prevailed a few decades ago.

Equity and fairness matter not only
because they are complementary to longterm prosperity. It is evident that many
people—if not most—care about equity
for its own sake. Some see equal opportunities and fair processes as matters of
social justice and thus as an intrinsic part
of the objective of development. In chapter
4, we briefly review arguments and evidence suggesting that most societies
exhibit a pervasive and long-standing concern for equity.

75

Equity and well-being

4

chapter

People from many cultures seem to share a
concern for equity that is reflected in religious and philosophical traditions, as well
as in legal institutions, both national and
international. Religions from Islam to Buddhism and secular philosophical traditions
from Plato to Sen have shown both a concern for equity and an aversion to absolute
deprivation. In modern legal institutions,
equity remains a fundamental tenet of theory and practice.
That a concern with equity is so pervasive
across cultures, religions, and philosophical
traditions suggests that a fundamental preference for fairness is deeply rooted in human
beings. We review experimental evidence
showing that many people place a monetary
value on “fairness” and are prepared to give
up real money if they feel that a process they
are involved in is unfair. Complementing this
evidence are data from opinion surveys, and
surveys on subjective well-being, suggesting
that higher inequality in incomes is, on average, associated with lower aggregate levels of
subjective well-being.
An empirical link between income
inequality and poverty reduction reinforces
the conceptual link between the aversion to
inequality and the quest to avoid absolute
deprivation. We highlight the obvious fact
that, if inequality falls during a growth
spell, poverty generally falls by more than if
inequality had not changed. We also document the less obvious fact that higherincome inequality reduces the effectiveness
of future economic growth in reducing
absolute income poverty.

Ethical and philosophical
approaches to equity
Perhaps the oldest manifestations of concern
with equity and the avoidance of deprivation
76

come from religion. Several major world religions endorse the notions of social justice
and a duty toward the poor. Buddhists see a
duty to care for the poor. Christians are to
“love their neighbor as themselves.” The
Hebrew word for “charity” is the same as the
one for “justice.” One of Islam’s five pillars of
faith is zakat, providing for the poor and
needy. The World Faiths Development Dialogue (1999) states that “all religions would
see the extreme material poverty in the world
today as a moral indictment to contemporary
humanity and a breach of trust within the
human family.” And religious views on equity
are not restricted to poverty. Despite varying
interpretations, and a wealth of differences in
perspective, a belief in the fundamental dignity of human beings is a theological tenet in
most major religions. While there are important differences in how this belief manifests
itself across faiths, and even among different
groups within the main religions, some analysts see a growing emphasis on this principle
of equality within various faiths.1
Equity is also a key theme in secular
philosophical traditions. Western political
and ethical philosophy, for instance, has
long been concerned with distribution. In
ancient Greece, Plato argued that “if a state
is to avoid . . . civil disintegration . . . extreme
poverty and wealth must not be allowed to
rise in any section of the citizen-body,
because both lead to disasters.”2 Roman law,
while discriminating against slaves, as in all
ancient empires, also laid the foundations
for some of the principles of equality that
underlie modern legal principles in many
countries. Those principles applied only to
Roman citizens who were free, but in modern nations they have become all-inclusive.
In the modern era, Western thinking
about social justice was greatly influenced
by utilitarianism—the idea, originally from

Equity and well-being

Bentham (1789), that the social goal should
be to achieve “the greatest happiness for the
greatest number.” Although utilitarians
were essentially unconcerned with the distribution of happiness, enjoining societies
simply to maximize the sum of utilities
across all individuals, the approach has
earned the somewhat misbegotten reputation (at least among economists) of having
egalitarian implications.3
Modern theories of distributive justice
have largely moved beyond utilitarianism, in
part because of its fundamental lack of concern with the distribution of welfare. Since the
early 1970s, a number of influential thinkers,
including John Rawls, Amartya Sen, Ronald
Dworkin, and John Roemer, have made separate and important contributions to the way
we think about equity. Although the theories
of justice and social choice proposed by each
of them are different in important respects,
they share much in common.
All four reject final welfare (or utility) as
the appropriate space in which to judge the
fairness of a given allocation or system. All
acknowledge the importance of individual
responsibility in moving from resources to
final outcomes, including welfare. All prefer
to see some combination of the set of liberties and resources available to individuals as
the right space to form a social judgment.
All seem to appeal, at some stage, to the “veil
of ignorance” argument, from Harsanyi
(1955), that a fair allocation of resources
should be one that all “prospective members
of society” would agree on, before they knew
which position they would occupy. They
used this thought experiment to argue that
justice implies equality in the allocation to
all people of some fundamental concept,
such as primary goods.
What Rawls, Sen, Dworkin, and Roemer
disagree on is what exactly this concept should
be. Rawls (1971) argued that social justice
required that two basic principles should
hold. The first “demands the most extensive
liberty for each, consistent with similar liberty
for others.”4 The second requires that opportunities—which he related to the concept of
“primary goods”—should be open to all
members of society. Under the Difference
Principle, he proposes that the chosen allocation should be one that maximizes the oppor-

tunities of the least privileged group. (The
Difference Principle is also known as Rawls’s
“maximin” principle).
Sen (1985) thought that different people might have different “conversion factors” from resources to actions and welfare. He argued that all goods, including
Rawls’ “primary goods,” are inputs to a
person’s functionings—the set of actions a
person performs and of states the person
values or enjoys. For Sen, the concept to be
equalized across people is the set of possible functionings from which a person
might be able to choose (which he called a
“capability set”).
Dworkin (1981b) and Dworkin (1981a)
argued that justice required that individuals
should be compensated for aspects of their
circumstances over which they had no control, or for which they could not be held
responsible. He argued for a distribution of
resources that compensated people for
innate differences that they could not have
helped, including differences in talent.
Roemer (1998) argued that equity
demanded an “equal opportunity policy.” He
acknowledged that individuals bear some
responsibility for their own welfare, but also
that circumstances over which they have no
control affect both how much effort they
invest and the level of welfare they eventually attain. He argued that public action
should therefore aim to equalize “advantages” among people from groups with different circumstances at every point along
the distribution of efforts within the group.
Despite important (but subtle) differences, all four thinkers have contributed to
shifting the focus of social justice from outcomes to opportunities. We also take a leaf
from Nozick (1974), who is usually regarded
as an anti-egalitarian. He argued that theories of justice generally placed an excessive
emphasis on outcomes, such as welfare,
utility, or even capabilities. Nozick reminded
us of the (obvious) fact that outcomes are
the result of processes and argued that the
correct focus for a theory of justice should
be on the fairness of processes. If a particular allocation departs from a fair initial
state, and is arrived at through a fair
process, it should be judged to be fair—
even if it is unequal.

77

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

78

BOX 4.1

A simple representation of different concepts
of equity

The figure below (adapted from figure 11-1 in
Atkinson and Stiglitz 1980),* can help summarize what this report hopes to achieve—
and what it does not. Suppose that a society
consists of only two groups of people (1 and
2) and let the axes of the diagram depict the
opportunity levels of each group. Opportunity sets are obviously multidimensional, but
imagine for simplicity that the various dimensions can be meaningfully conflated onto an
“opportunity index,”O1 for type 1s, and O2 for
type 2s. Now let the curved frontier AC represent the “opportunity possibility frontier”for
this society.** It reflects the maximum opportunity indexes that types 1 and 2 can obtain,
given the available resources and technology.
The fact that it does not monotonically
decline from A to C incorporates the fact that
when type 1 individuals have very limited
opportunities, type 2 people can also benefit
from an expansion in type 1 opportunity sets,
and vice versa. Over some ranges, improvements in the opportunity sets of the “poorest”types can be Pareto-improving—that is,
can benefit everyone. Put another way, there
is scope for efficient, growth-promoting redistribution.
Eventually, however, tradeoffs set in.
Between points P and R, if society is on the
opportunity possibility frontier, any
improvement in type 1 sets must imply a
reduction in type 2 sets, and vice-versa.
Points B, R, and E are translations to this
“opportunity space” of the welfare concepts
associated with Bentham, Rawls, and full
egalitarianism, respectively.
• If this society wished to maximize the
sum of total opportunity indexes, it
should aim for point B.

• If, instead, it wanted to maximize the
opportunity set of the “poorest” group, it
should aim for point R.
• If it insisted on absolute equality of
opportunities, it must lie along the 45degree ray through the origin, and would
aim for point E.
What this report will not attempt to do
is to advise countries on which of these criteria of social justice, or indeed any other, an
individual society should aim for. Each of
these three points can be defended by logical arguments, under different degrees of
aversion to inequalities in opportunity.
What the report will try to do is as follows:
• Describe the inequalities in opportunity
actually observed in society (at a point
such as X).
• Investigate whether some of those disparities (which in this diagram greatly
favor type 2) might actually be preventing the society from enjoying higher
aggregate opportunities (and welfare, on
another space).
• Suggest possible policy and institutional
approaches that might help move from
points such as X to whichever point society considers equitable, on the opportunity possibility frontier.

*Atkinson and Stiglitz (1980) refer, in turn, to a
figure 1 in Buchanan (1976).
**In Atkinson and Stiglitz (1980), utilities are
used instead of opportunities. While that distinction is fundamental in almost every
respect, it is not for the point being made here,
namely that different social justice criteria
imply different optimal allocations.

An illustration of choices between the opportunities of two types of people

P

O2

B

B: Maximize sum of total opportunity
(O1 + O2)

X
R

R: Maximize opportunities for group 1 (O1)
E: Absolute equality of opportunities
between group 1 (O1) and group 2 (O1)

A
E

Opportunity possibility frontier
C

O1

The concept of equity we adopt in this
report draws on the contribution of these
four thinkers by focusing on opportunities,
rather than on welfare, utilities, or some
other corresponding individual outcome.
We do not dwell on the fine distinctions
between Sen’s capabilities and Roemer’s
opportunities. As in both frameworks, we
acknowledge the central role of individual
responsibility and effort in determining outcomes. We focus on eliminating disadvantage from circumstances that lie largely
beyond the control of the individual but that
powerfully shape both the outcomes and the
actions in pursuit of those outcomes.
These different perspectives on what a
social optimum should be can shed light on
an important point for this report—one
previously mentioned in chapter 1. It is not
for us to advise countries on what exactly
constitutes an equitable distribution in
their societies. Instead, our role is to point
out the inequities we can observe and to
note that reducing them may be perfectly
consistent with—perhaps even necessary
for—greater efficiency and prosperity in the
long run. Box 4.1 draws on a classic public
economics discussion of these philosophical perspectives to illustrate this point.

Equity and legal institutions
The concerns with equity that feature in
moral, religious, and ethical debates around
the world are reflected in real-world institutions, through which people have sought to
promote justice throughout history. Chief
among them are legal institutions, where
“equity” has a distinct—and specific—interpretation as a set of principles intended to
guide and correct the application of the law.
According to Kritzer (2002), how these principles merge with the written, codified law
varies across legal traditions, but the overarching concept of “fairness” is a crosscultural reality. And in practice, definitions
often refer directly to shared values within a
particular community5 as well as to the belief
that people should not suffer before the law
as a result of having unequal bargaining
power.6
In Western philosophy, Aristotle is
regarded as the first author to distinguish
between justice and equity.7 He found that

Equity and well-being

courts enact justice according to law—that is,
by applying general rules that give an equitable solution in the majority of cases. In some
cases, however, the results are inequitable.
Equity then rectifies law in so far as the law is
defective on account of its generality.8 The
Romans operationalized this concept of
equity by distinguishing between ius strictum
(strict law) and ius aequum (equity), with the
latter used to interpret the law and to complement it. Equity prevailed in instances of conflict between the two.
In modern legal traditions, equity remains a fundamental tenet of legal theory
and practice. In common law systems, equity
was historically a separate branch of law
administered by Chancery Courts.9 The
Judicature Act of 1873 in the United Kingdom “fused” the courts of law and equity,
doing away with a bifurcated system of
courts, while establishing the supremacy of
equity in cases of conflict between equity and
common law. Equitable principles, based on
conscience and fairness, have continued to
develop and be applied in common law jurisdictions around the world to mitigate harsh
and unfair results produced by the application of formal legal rules in specific cases.10
In general, the use of equity as a source
of law in the civil law traditions of the European continent is more limited than in the
common law tradition. Civil legal codes,
which have their origins in the Enlightenment era, aim at integrating equity into
formal law—that is, by designing laws
aimed at producing equitable results.
Equity is seen as part of law and, therefore,
should be achieved by applying the formal
rules. Provisions in the codes that refer
explicitly to equity, however, are used to
correct inequitable results of the application of other formal provisions, in a way
which is similar to common law systems.
Both the common law and the codified
systems from the continental European tradition have spread to countries around the
globe, and equity is now a global legal concept. The legal systems of Latin American
countries, such as Argentina, Brazil, and
Mexico, have approaches to equity similar
to those in continental Europe, while
Bangladesh, India, and Nigeria follow the
common law tradition. Importantly, equity is

not a purely Western concept—it can be
found in legal systems around the world,
including those that do not share European
origins.11 For example, the distinction
between justice and equity is also found in
Islamic law, in which the former is referred to
as adala, the latter as insaf, and in Jewish law,
with the distinction between din and tsedek.12
In today’s more integrated world, legal
understanding of equity has also influenced
international law—serving as the basis for
individualized justice, creating specific
principles of fairness and reasonableness, or
being identified with international equitable standards for sharing resources and
redistributing wealth. Perhaps the foremost
example of the development of international principles of equity is the international human rights regime. International
human rights law is rooted in a commitment to protect the “equal and inalienable
rights of all members of the human family,”
which itself is considered to be the “foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the
world.”13
The U.N. Charter laid the foundation for
contemporary international human rights
law. The preamble to the Charter states that
the U.N. community “reaffirms faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and
worth of the human person, in the equal
rights of men and women and of nations
large and small.”14 The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on
December 10, 1948, is viewed as the “source
of inspiration and . . . the basis for the U.N.
in making advances in standard setting as
contained in the existing human rights
instruments.”15 It has become a highly visible and widely recognized statement of
moral, ethical, and political standards at the
international level.16
The contemporary international human
rights regime comprises a broad array of
legal instruments,17 many operating under
the aegis of the United Nations. There also
exist regional human rights regimes in
Europe (European Convention on Human
Rights and Fundamental Freedoms), the
Americas (Inter-American Convention on
Human Rights), and Africa (African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights). In

79

80

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

addition, the laws of some other international entities, such as the European Union,
incorporate human rights norms (Treaty of
Nice, Charter of Fundamental Rights of the
European Union). Together, these different
legal instruments are aimed at protecting
people against a variety of harms, including
potential harm by their governments, and
at committing to the fundamental principles of equality and nondiscrimination.

People prefer fairness
Different cultures and religions around the
world may differ in important respects, but
they all share a concern with equity and fairness. This suggests something quite fundamental about the value human beings place
on them. A fairly recent body of literature in
economics sheds some light on these shared
human preferences. It has amassed convincing evidence on individuals’ preferences for
fairness, based on controlled laboratory
experiments. In these experiments, individuals interact through behavioral games and
play with real money under tightly controlled conditions. Results from such experiments over the last 10 or so years reject the
hypothesis in standard economic models
that all individuals are exclusively concerned
with their material self-interest. This new
body of literature is large and rich, but its
main findings can be summarized under
three main points.
Figure 4.1 The distribution of observed offers in
ultimatum games
Offers and rejections in high- and low-stakes
ultimatum games
Frequency
0.4
Low monetary stake
($10 pie)
High monetary stake
0.3
($100 pie)

0.2

Accept
Reject

0.1

Accept
Reject

0.0
0

First, some people behave in ways clearly
inconsistent with the rational self-interest
hypothesis. According to Fehr and Fischbacher (2003), such people regularly display
a willingness to engage in two specific forms
of behavior: “altruistic rewarding, a propensity to reward others for cooperative, normabiding behavior, and altruistic punishment,
a propensity to impose sanctions on others
for norm violations” (785). These behaviors
are observed in contexts in which it is possible to rule out individual motivation by a
desire for reciprocity or a concern with reputation. While reciprocity and reputation
are important additional determinants of
cooperation in many settings, the experimental evidence suggests that they are not
the only factors that influence cooperative
behavior.
A classic example is the Ultimatum
Game, in which a player (the Proposer) is
asked to suggest a one-time division of a
certain sum of money (say, $100) between
himself or herself and another player. The
second player (the Responder) has the
power to simply accept or reject the offer.
Acceptance leads to the implementation of
the offer, whereas rejection leads to a zero
payoff for both players. Monetary stakes are
for keeps, and neither player knows the real
identity of the other player. Both players are
told that they will never play with each
other again.
In such circumstances, standard game
theory predicts a unique equilibrium: the
Proposer should offer the smallest possible
amount, and the Responder should accept
(since a penny is higher than zero). But time
and again, across hundreds of experiments
in highly heterogeneous cultural circumstances and with amounts ranging from one
hour’s to one week’s local wages, observed
offers are substantially higher and, even so,
rejections are often observed.18 In many
experiments, the modal (most frequent)
offer is actually at 50 percent. Figure 4.1
depicts the actual distribution of observed
offers in two sets of Ultimatum Games, one
with lower monetary stakes (bar on the left)
and one with higher (bar on the right).

1–10 11–20 21–30 31–40 41–60 51–60 61–70
Proportion of pie offered (%)

Source: Based on data from Hoffman, McCabe, and Smith (1996).

Second, people are heterogeneous. A sizable
fraction of people in most experiments (20

Equity and well-being

to 50 percent) engage in altruistic giving or
altruistic punishment—expending real
resources in a way that is unambiguously
costly to them, without any hope of eliciting
personal gain if the other person is rationally self-interested. But the behavior of others (a majority) is consistent with rational
self-interest. This is brought out quite
starkly in the Dictator Game, a variant of
the Ultimatum Game in which the responder is purely passive. The second player is
simply a Receiver, with no right to reject the
offer. Positive offers in the Dictator Game
are observed, but they are both rarer and
smaller on average than under the Ultimatum Game, in which the Responder may—
always at a cost—punish the Proposer.
These results point to the importance of
investigating more precisely the conditions
under which people exhibit self-interested
and other-regarding behavior.
Third, fair-minded people can behave selfishly, and self-interested people can behave
fairly. Behaviors depend on the rules of the
game. In games where competitive pressures
are introduced, mimicking a competitive
market, players tend to quickly converge
toward actions consistent with self-interested behavior. An example is an Ultimatum
Game with Multiple Proposers. If the
Responder can choose among various offers
from different Proposers, with all nonchosen Proposers receiving zero, observed
behavior quickly tends to the Nash equilibrium. In the Nash equilibrium, all Proposers
offer the full amount—or very close to it—
despite this giving rise to a very unequal distribution, in which the Responder captures
the entire surplus, and all Proposers get zero.
In other settings, however—such as the
Repeated Public Good Game with Punishment in Fehr and Gachter (2000)—even a
small number of altruistic players can sustain a cooperative equilibrium.
These findings have been interpreted to
suggest that a sizable fraction of human
beings in most societies care not only about
their own individual opportunities and outcomes but also about “fairness.” There is also
broad agreement that fairness consists of a
concern for others, although some authors
suggest that it is other people’s intentions

toward us that attract reward or punishment, while others think it is their outcomes
or opportunities.19 These studies do not
usually distinguish explicitly between outcomes or opportunities. But it is possible to
speculate that the aversion to very unequal
payoff distributions in the Ultimatum Game
arises from the arbitrary and unequal nature
of the endowments (or power) implicit in
the initial allocation of the roles of Proposer
and Responder.
The experiments also show that people’s
views of fairness are complex and do not
depend entirely on outcomes. Some players
are prepared to punish noncooperators until
they receive less than other people, because
of what they perceive to be the unfairness of
their actions in the process of the game. This
is consistent with our emphasis that observed
distributions of certain outcomes—such as
incomes—are the product of complex processes, and that the primary interest for
those concerned with equity is not the outcome, but the fairness of the processes they
participate in over their lifetimes. An
income distribution in which some people
are much richer than others because, given
similar chances, they have worked much
harder, may be regarded as fair. But the same
income distribution may be regarded as
unfair if it was generated by the richer group
having access to much better schools or jobs,
solely because of the wealth or connections
of their parents.
A separate but related point is made by
the social identity literature in social psychology (see Haslam 2001) and epidemiology (see Marmot 2004), which suggests that
individual behavior and performance are
heavily conditioned by group identity (for
example, caste, gender, occupation); by
whether those groups are seen as subordinate to others (for example, doctors and
patients, the status accorded minority ethnic communities); and by whether the
boundaries among groups are regarded as
permeable (for example, the rules shaping
whether and how employees get promotions, immigrants become citizens, and so
on). Civil servants with low status and few
upward mobility prospects suffer from
higher mortality.20 Employees of low-status
firms undergoing a merger more readily

81

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

82

BOX 4.2

Capuchin monkeys don’t like inequity either . . .

Research is under way on the roots of
human altruism and the aversion to
inequity, whether cultural or genetic. But
there is some evidence that aversion to
unfairness is not just human. In a recent article in Nature, “Monkeys Reject Unequal Pay,”
Brosnan and De Waal (2003) report the
results of exchange experiments with
brown capuchin monkeys (Cebus apella).
The animals were given a token that they
could immediately redeem for food by
returning it to the experimenter.They were
placed in adjoining compartments with
visual and vocal contact.
In the baseline treatment (the equality
test), both specimens received a quarter of
a cucumber slice for each token exchanged.
In one treatment of interest (the
“inequality test”), the first monkey received
a grape, while the second was given the
usual slice of cucumber.That capuchin
monkeys prefer grapes to cucumber slices
had apparently been amply established by
previous research.The results were striking.
Monkeys failed to exchange their tokens for
food around 5 percent of the time under

the equality test, but this rate rose to more
than 50 percent under the inequality test.
The refusal rate rose even further (to
more than 80 percent) under an alternative
treatment, known as “effort control.” In this
treatment, the first monkey received a
grape with no effort—with no need to pick
up a token and exchange it for food.
Although few monkeys were used, these
differences were all statistically significant.
In both treatments, refusal rates
increased over time, as the experiment was
repeated (never more than once a day) many
times. Interestingly, only female monkeys
completed these tests, as earlier experiments
suggested that male capuchins are much
less sensitive to the distribution of rewards.
The authors concluded that “tolerant
species with well-developed food sharing
and cooperation, such as capuchins [. . .]
may hold emotionally charged expectations
about reward distribution and social
exchange that lead them to dislike
inequity” (Brosnan and De Waal 2003, 299).
Source: Brosnan and De Waal (2003).

accept the new organizational structure
because it benefits them individually, while
members of the higher-status firm are more
likely to resist change and act collectively in
terms of their premerger identity.21
The experimental and subjective wellbeing literature in economics and social
psychology remind us that there is something deep and fundamental about our taste
for fairness and equity. Such “human altruism,” argue Fehr and Fischbacher (2003) in
Nature, may be what accounts for the much
greater complexity of cooperative patterns
in human societies compared with those of
other animals (box 4.2). Equity, it seems,
matters intrinsically and fundamentally for
human beings.
Whatever the exact form of the true
motives of individuals, the main implication for this report from this large body of
experimental evidence is that a good proportion of people in most societies appear
to dislike unfair outcomes and behaviors, so
much so that they are prepared to pay to
punish those responsible for them. If people
are prepared to pay real money to reduce
inequalities that appear unfair to them in a

laboratory, it is plausible that large inequalities in real life also reduce their well-being
(particularly if the inequalities are not seen
to reflect only differences in effort or
merit). This provides support for the statistical association that the subjective wellbeing literature finds between income
inequality and self-reported happiness—a
subject we now turn to.

Income inequality
and subjective well-being
To what extent do the concerns with equity
shown in tightly controlled lab experiments
also manifest themselves in the attitudes,
feelings, and opinions of “regular people?” A
recent study of labor strife in the United
States suggests that worker perceptions of
whether they have been treated fairly or
unfairly can affect their efforts, and thus
product quality, in important ways (box 4.3).
Other studies investigate the associations
between the narrower concept of income
inequality and measures of subjective wellbeing. One recent study of European
nations and the United States relies on individual answers to the following question:
“Taken all together, how would you say
things are these days—would you say that
you are very happy, pretty happy, or not too
happy?”22 Based on the variation in answers
to this question, across European countries
and U.S. states, and on objective incomeinequality measures, Alesina, Di Tella, and
MacCulloch (2004) find that “individuals
have a lower tendency to report themselves
happy when inequality is high, even after
controlling for individual income, a large
set of personal characteristics, and year and
country [. . .] dummies” (2009).23
One reason that inequality might make
people less happy, even when controlling
for absolute income levels, is that it violates
their sense of fairness. It may be that (at
least some) people feel that a very unequal
income distribution reflects unfair processes
and unequal distributions of opportunity. A
2001 study of Latin American countries by
Latinobarometro, a reputable Chile-based
opinion survey company, asked respondents
the following question: “Do you think that
the income distribution in your country is
very fair, fair, unfair, or very unfair?” On

Equity and well-being

BOX 4.3

Worker perceptions of unfairness, product quality, and consumer safety

Do people change their behavior because they
feel they are being treated unfairly, when they
are outside laboratories? And if so, is this likely
to have any serious consequence? A study of
industrial relations in Illinois, United States, suggests that the answer to both questions is yes.
Since the 1940s, Firestone tire plants had
adhered to the industrywide bargain with labor
unions. But when negotiations for a new contract
began in 1994, Bridgestone/Firestone proposed
deviating from the industrywide bargain in a way
that worsened the terms for labor at a time when
company profits were increasing.The company
proposed moving from an 8- to a 12-hour shift
that would rotate between days and nights. It
also proposed cutting pay for new hires by 30
percent.The union at the plant in Decatur, Illinois,
called a strike and, shortly after the strike, the
company hired replacement workers.
Labor strife at the Decatur plant closely
coincided with lower product quality and defective tires. In August 2000, Firestone announced
the recall of 14 million ATX and AT tires, most of
them on the Ford Explorer.The U.S. government
reported that Firestone tires under investigation

were related to 271 deaths and more than 800
injuries.The most common source of failure of
the recalled tires was tread separation, a sudden
detachment of the rubber tread from the steel
belts that caused the tire to blow out.
Krueger and Mas (2004) compare the number of claims of defective tires in the Decatur
plant with those from the two other North
American plants where Firestone ATX tires were
produced: Joliette, Quebec, and Wilson, North
Carolina. Neither of these two plants
experienced labor strife in the relevant period.
Tires produced during the labor dispute
(1994–96) at Decatur had a much higher failure
rate than those produced at Joliette or Wilson,
although before and after the dispute period
the rate of claims was similar for tires manufactured in Decatur and in the other plants.The
pattern suggests that changes in technology
cannot explain the rise in complaints against
Decatur tires, because no such rise occurred in
Joliette or Wilson.
Nor does it appear that the lack of experience
of replacement workers is to blame.There was a
spike in claims in the first half of 1994, around the

average, 89 percent of respondents regarded the distribution in their countries
to be either unfair or very unfair. In 17 of
the 18 countries surveyed, fewer than 20
percent of respondents answered fair or
very fair.24
Such results may be particularly strong in
Latin America, which is one of most
unequal regions in the world, but they are
not exclusive to that region. A recent analysis
of several OECD countries (which are less
unequal than most developing countries)
was based on data from the International
Social Survey Program. To construct a proxy
measure of cross-national attitudes toward
income inequality, Osberg and Smeeding
(2004) ask what a number of different professions25 “should earn” and what they “do
earn.” They find that citizens of most highincome countries26 appear on average to
have similar attitudes toward inequality,
generally thinking that less well-paid professions should be paid more and that betterpaid professions should be paid less.
Osberg and Smeeding (2004) findings
reinforce the view that the normative preferences people have over distributions are

time concessions were demanded and the old
contract expired, which occurred before replacement workers were hired.Through early 1995,
when many replacement workers were making
tires, there were no excess claims in the Decatur
plant. It was not until the end of 1995, when many
returning strikers were working side by side with
replacement workers, that the excess number of
claims became high. On the basis of this and a
much broader analysis, it appears likely that the
chemistry between the recalled strikers and the
replacement workers, or the cumulative impact of
labor strife in general, created the conditions that
led to the production of many defective tires.
The authors of the study “recommend that
the reader exercise caution in extending our
results to other settings; our paper provides a
detailed case study of only one firm in one
unique period of its history” (Krueger and Mas
2004, 257). At least in that instance, it appears
that perceptions of unfair treatment influenced
worker attitudes—and product quality and the
safety of consumers.
Source: Krueger and Mas (2004).

based not exclusively on actual incomes, but
also on processes, and that some differences
in outcomes may be considered fair (for
example, because of differences in effort),
while others are not (for example, because of
differences in opportunities). People are
clearly aware that income differentials can
provide incentives for work and investment,
including in education, if they are coupled
with opportunities for reward to those
actions. This comes across very clearly from
the answers to one question in the latest wave
of the World Value Survey, which split
respondents around the world more or less
evenly into those who felt that income
inequality was too high and those who felt it
was too low.

Income inequality and incentives:
What do people say?
The World Value Survey is a multicountry
survey of individuals designed and sponsored by the Inter-university Consortium
for Political and Social Research, based at
the University of Michigan. The survey
aims to “enable a cross-national comparison of values and norms on a wide variety

83

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

84

Figure 4.2 Views on inequality from the World Values Survey
Income: more equal or more unequal?
Frequency (percent)

Views on inequality vary by income
Mean score (lower values indicate
preference for more equality)

20

7.0

15
6.5
10
6.0
5
5.5

0
1

2

3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
Preference for inequality

1

2

3

4 5 6 7 8
Income deciles

9 10

Source: Inglehart and others (2004).
Note: Author’s calculations are based on data for the years 1999–2000. Preference for inequality ranges from agreement with 1, “Income should be more equal,” to agreement with 10, “We need larger income differences as incentives
for individual effort.”

of topics.” Four main waves have been
fielded since the early 1980s. In the latest
wave, Inglehart and others 2004) asked representative samples of people in 69 countries to place their views on a scale from 1 to
10, where 1 implied agreement with the
statement that “Incomes should be made
more equal,” and 10 implied agreement
with the statement that “We need larger
income differences as incentives for individual effort.”
Figure 4.2a suggests considerable polarization on views about inequality. The
median answer is 6, suggesting no strong
agreement with the two polar statements.
Yet almost 20 percent of all respondents
were in strong agreement with each of the
two extreme views, represented by scores of
1 and 10. Figure 4.2b shows a positive correlation between the score (which is negatively correlated with inequality aversion)
and a respondent’s own income. This is
consistent with the evidence on the importance of relative incomes for welfare: if you
are richer, you are less inclined to favor a
reduction in income inequalities than if you
are poorer.
The World Values Survey results caution
against any preconceived notion that
income inequality is viewed everywhere as
inherently undesirable. When asked about
income differences explicitly “as incentives
for individual effort,” (many) people seem
quite happy to have them and, indeed, to

want more of them (although this tendency was less pronounced in countries
with either very low or very high levels of
inequality).
The balance of the survey evidence suggests that, although inequality in incomes
seems to be associated with lower aggregate
levels of subjective well-being, there is considerable heterogeneity in opinions about
whether it should be reduced or not.
Poorer people, and people in countries at
very high or very low inequality levels,
seem likelier to favor a reduction in inequality. People recognize that some
inequality is important to generate incentives for investment and effort; however,
when asked about relative pay scales across
professions, they would on average prefer
smaller differentials. While in Latin America, for instance, a majority judges the
income distribution to be unfair, there is no
worldwide agreement that income disparities should be reduced everywhere. This is
generally consistent with a view that what
matters for ethical judgment is not income,
but fair processes and opportunities.

Income inequality and poverty
reduction
To the philosophical and legal arguments
for equity, and to the survey-based and
experimental evidence that fairness matters
intrinsically to people, we add a final argument: high levels of inequality make it more
difficult to reduce poverty. First, we highlight the fact that if inequality falls during a
growth spell, poverty generally falls by more
than it would have if growth had been distribution-neutral. Second, we document
the finding that the effectiveness of future
economic growth in reducing absolute
income poverty declines with initial income
inequality.

If inequality falls, poverty falls more
during spells of growth
By raising the incomes and consumption of
people across the distribution of income,
economic growth is the main driver of
poverty reduction in the developing world.
The negative association between the average annual rate of change in poverty and

Equity and well-being

the average annual rate of growth in mean
incomes is immediately clear from figure
4.3, suggesting that countries experiencing
higher rates of economic growth can be
expected to reduce poverty much faster
than those that grow more slowly.27 The
slope of the simple regression line, –2.4, is
the average total elasticity of poverty with
respect to economic growth. It implies that,
without controlling for any characteristics
of the country, 1 percentage point growth in
a country’s mean income can be expected to
reduce the incidence of poverty in that
country by about 2.4 percentage points.
This powerful association between economic growth and poverty reduction is
one of the central stylized facts of development economics. Its qualitative nature has
long been understood, and it has recently
been quantified by Ravallion and Chen
(1997), Dollar and Kraay (2002), and others.
Indeed, the growth-poverty relationship is
probably more powerful than surprising: it
merely reflects the fact that, on average,
the growth in the incomes of the poor is
similar to the growth of mean incomes
(figure 4.4). Put differently: aggregate economic growth is, on average, distributionneutral.28
There is, however, considerable variation
around those averages. About half the total
variation in poverty reduction is accounted
for by economic growth (see the explanatory power of the underlying regression for
figure 4.3).29 The other half must reflect
changes in the underlying distribution of
relative incomes. This happens because the
incidence of economic growth (its distributional pattern) can vary dramatically
across countries. Two countries with similar rates of growth in mean incomes can
have very different growth profiles across
the population. As one would expect,
reductions in inequality at a given growth
rate add a “redistribution component” to
the “growth component,” leading to faster
overall poverty reduction.
The contribution of inequality reduction alongside growth is illustrated by a
comparison of the growth incidence curves
(GIC) for Tunisia (1980–2000) and Senegal
(1994–2001) (figure 4.5). In both countries, the average annual growth rate in the

85

Figure 4.3 Growth is the key to poverty reduction . . .
Change in log poverty headcount index (x100)
500
BUL

400
LVA

300

PER MDA
ARG

200

HUN
MLI

POL
LAO
CIV
PAR
VEN
SVN
TTO COL
MNG
ZWE BGD
LSO
ROM GEO NERSLV BDI
VNM NGA UGA
BWA
HRVRUS
NIC GHA
0 ZAF
ZMB
MDG
UZB
ETH EGY
BRA
BOL
BFA PHLHON MEX
LKAIND
KEN
TURPAN MAU
ECU GMB
DZA LTU SEN CMR
GUY CHN
URY ALB
CRI
AZE
EST IDN PAK
MAR

100

YEM

0
–100
–200
–300
–400
–150

y = –2.3841x + 2.3517
t-stat = 9.30
R2 = 0.5225
N = 73

IRN

TUN

JAM

LYS

GTM

THA

KAZ

–100

–50

0

50

100

150

Change in log mean consumption or income between surveys (x100)
Source: Authors’ calculations.

Figure 4.4 . . . and, on average, growth is distribution-neutral
Change in log Gini index (x100)
50
40
30

LVA

BUL

20
10
0
–10
–20
–30
–40

y = –0.0288x + 3.3717
t-stat = 0.515
R2 = 0.004
N = 73

–60
–150

CRI
NGA

POL
ZWE BDI
EST
SVN
BWA
LAO
CHN
BGD
ARG
GHA
HUN HRV
MDA
LSO PHL
MEX ECU
PER
NIC
COL
SLV
CIV
EGY
GMB
MDG
BRAIDN HON
VNM URYMARAZE
PAN
GEO
IND LYS
LTU
PAK
ROM
ALBUGACMR
TTO RUS
THA
ZAF IRN TUR
VEN
TUN BFA
MNG
JAM
DZA ZMB
GUY
YEM
MAU
KAZ
BOL
KEN
SEN
ETH

UZB

–50

PAR

NER

MLI

GTM

LKA

–100
–50
0
50
100
Change in log mean consumption or income between surveys (x100)

Source: Authors’ calculations.

mean incomes from the household survey
was close to 2.5 percent. In Tunisia, where
the distribution of this growth was relatively more beneficial to the poor, the headcount index of poverty fell by 67 percent
(from 30 percent to 10 percent). This corresponds to an annual rate of decline in
poverty of 5.4 percent. In Senegal, where
growth was less pronounced for the bottom
half than for the upper half of the distribu-

150

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

86

Figure 4.5 The national growth incidence curves for Tunisia 1980–1995 and Senegal 1994–2001
Tunisia

Senegal

Annual growth rate, %

Annual growth rate, %

4

4

Growth incidence curve

3

3
2

2

Growth rate in mean

Growth rate in mean

1

1

0

0

–1

Growth incidence curve

–1
0

10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
Population percentile

0

10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
Population percentile

Sources: Ayadi and others (2004) for Tunisia and Azam and others (2005) for Senegal. These are two of 14 country case
studies from the World Bank’s “Operationalizing Pro-Poor Growth” Study.

tion, poverty fell by only 15 percent (from
68 percent to 57 percent), corresponding to
an annual rate of poverty reduction of 2.3
percent. Although some of this difference is
due to the fact that the actual growth rate
was marginally higher in Tunisia (2.7 percent versus 2.3 percent in Senegal), much of
it is clearly due to the different patterns in
the incidence of growth, which is evident in
figure 4.5.
This contribution of declines in
inequality to poverty reduction holds more
generally. According to Datt and Ravallion
(1992), a decomposition of changes in
poverty into growth and inequality components has been widely applied. Redistribution components are usually smaller than
growth components and, because inequality often rises, they often have the “wrong”
sign. But when inequality falls, this helps
reduce poverty.
A second and separate point is that the
power of growth to reduce poverty declines
with higher initial income inequality. A
reduction in inequality today therefore
also tends to have a future impact on the
effectiveness of (even distribution-neutral)
growth in reducing poverty. This occurs
because the shape of most income distributions means that the growth elasticity
of poverty reduction tends to be smaller
in more unequal countries. Put another
way, because the initial distributions of
income are different, the rate of poverty

reduction in two countries with the same
distribution-neutral growth rate may well
be different.
Perhaps the most flexible way to capture
the variation in growth elasticity with
inequality across the sample of countries
available for these exercises is simply to
compute the total and the partial growth
elasticity of poverty reduction for each single country (in a single spell per country)
and to plot it against the initial Gini coefficient (figure 4.6).30 A positive relationship is
apparent for both partial and total elasticity
concepts, for all four poverty line/poverty
measure combinations.31 The absolute value
of the growth elasticity of poverty reduction
falls as countries become more unequal,
both for the total and for the partial concepts. The slope of the line fitted through
panel (a) suggests that a 10 percentage
point increase in the Gini coefficient is, on
average, associated with a decline of 1.4 in
the (absolute value) of the elasticity. Given
that the average elasticity is 2.53, this is not
a small effect.
The fact that very unequal countries
(with a Gini coefficient near 0.6) have a
total elasticity near zero in this sample
should not be overemphasized. It is caused,
in part, by increases in inequality in some
of these countries during the recorded
growth spells. This is evident from the fact
that the partial elasticity (which controls
for changes in distribution) does not reach
zero for the same sample. Growth still contributes to poverty reduction, even in highinequality countries. The robust finding
relates to the sign of the slope of the line,
not its exact intercepts: higher initial
inequality means that growth reduces
poverty by a lesser amount.
It has been argued that this is a mechanical result in that, given a fixed functional
form for the income distribution, greater
inequality results in slower poverty reduction even if each individual’s income grows
at the same rate. Indeed, as indicated here,
distributional change is on average uncorrelated with mean growth rates so that, on
average, the poor see their incomes grow at
the same rate as other people’s. That does
not, however, follow from any law of nature.

Equity and well-being

87

Figure 4.6 Greater inequality reduces the power of growth to reduce poverty
a. Total elasticity vs. Gini (headcount ratio, $1)

b. Partial elasticity vs. Gini (headcount ratio, $1)

Total elasticity
10

Partial elasticity
10
DZA
PAR
UKR ETH

5

5

KEN

KGZ LSO
NGA
UZB
BWA HON GTM
PHL MAUUGA ECU RUS
PAKCRIINDU
GUY
PAN
BFA
CHNU IDN
BRA
THA MEX GMB
NER GEO
ROM
TUR
BOL SEN
ZAF
EST MNG VNM AZE ZWE
MDG CMR
TUN
LYS
ALB
BDI
MAR YEM JAM
VEN
MLI
INDR EGY
CIV
COL
IRN
KAZ
BGD
NIC

0
–5

0
–5
BUL

–10

–10
y = 13.758x – 8.2332
t-stat = 2.45
R2 = 0.0911
N = 62

–15
URY

LAO

RUS
UGAECU
HON GTM
NGA ZWE
CHNU CRI
GMB BFA BWA PAN
MAU
INDU
PAK
GUYSEN
PHL THA MDG
MEX
INDR IDN BDIAZENER
BOL LSO KEN BRA
PAR ETHJAM TUN CMR NIC
BGD EST
VNM
MYS COL
ROM
GEO DZA TUR UZB
KGZ
ZAF
IRN
MAR URY
MNG KAZ
ALB
VEN
ARG
MLI
EGY
CIV
UKR
LAO
PER
YEM

y = 8.2813x – 6.0475
t-stat = 2.97
R2 = 0.1231
N = 65

–15

–20

–20
0.2

0.25

0.3

0.35

0.4

0.45

0.5

0.55

0.6

0.65

0.2

0.25

0.3

0.35

Gini Index, initial period

0.4

0.45

c. Total elasticity vs. Gini (squared poverty gap, $2)

5

5

DZA

ECU
LSO
NIC
ETH
KGZ
NGA
UZB
UKR UGA
BWA GTM
EGY PAKCRI
MEX RUS
ZAF
GUY
MAU
CHNU
PHL THA
GMB
INDU
HON
IDN
EST
MAR TUN MDGCMR BFA BOL
PAN BRA
MNG VNM AZE
MYS
ALB
TUR
YEM
SEN
COL
BGD
INDR
NER
CIV
IRN
ZWE
VEN
JAM
BDI
LAO
MLI
KAZ

–7

ROM
URY

–13

2

MDA

DZA
BDI VNM
ECU
KEN
UGA
ZAF
HON
ETH
CRI
CHNU
MAU MDG
NER ZWE PHLTHA
MEX GMBBFA COLBWA PAN GTM
LAO PAK
NGA
INDR
TUN
IDN INDU
SEN LSO
GUY
JAM
CMR
EST
PAR
UZB
VEN
BRA
MYS
CIV
MNG AZE MLI
ARG
NIC BOL KGZ
UKR
TUR
ALB
KAZ
YEM
IRN
GEO MAR
PER
ROM

BGD

–1

BUL

–4
–7

y = 15.039x – 8.7066
t-stat = 3.24
R2 = 0.1468
N = 63

GEO

–10

0.65

RUS

8
KEN

PAR

–4

0.6

Partial elasticity
11

8

–1

0.55

d. Partial elasticity vs. Gini (squared poverty gap, $2)

Total elasticity
11

2

0.5

Gini Index, initial period

y = 6.5129x – 4.8068
t-stat = 1.97
R2 = 0.0585
N = 65

URY

–10

EGY

–13

–16

–16
0.2

0.25

0.3

0.35

0.4

0.45

0.5

Gini Index, initial period

0.55

0.6

0.65

0.2

0.25

0.3

0.35

0.4

0.45

0.5

0.55

0.6

0.65

Gini Index, initial period

Source: Authors’ calculations.
Note: The figure shows the scatter plots of country-level elasticities against initial-year Gini coefficients. Panel (a) shows the total elasticity for the headcount measure of poverty incidence,
with a $1 per day poverty line. Panel (b) shows the partial elasticity for the same measure and the same line. Panels (c) and (d) also show the total and partial elasticities respectively, but now
for the squared poverty gap index FGT(2) and with respect to a $2 per day line.32

Income distributions in individual countries can and do change during spells of
growth (see figure 4.5).33 There is no
mechanical rule that states that the incomes
of the poor must grow at the same rate as
the rest of the population.34 If on average
they do and if, given the shape of the empirical income distributions, the poverty elasticities are lower in countries with higher
initial inequality, this is an empirical fact.
The balance of the evidence does not,
therefore, allow much room for doubt that
growth elasticities of poverty reduction are
stronger in more equal societies. Inequality

reduces the effectiveness of economic
growth in reducing poverty. This means
that, if all else remains the same, a reduction
in income inequality today has a double
dividend: it is likely to contribute to a contemporaneous reduction in poverty, and it
is likely to make future growth reduce
poverty faster.
Evidently, the caveat “if all else remains
the same” is of crucial importance. The distribution of incomes is a reflection of the
general equilibrium of an economy, based
on the social, political, and institutional
structures that condition its behavior.

88

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Simple-minded attempts to change the way
incomes are distributed, without taking
into account the effects of policies on the
incentives of all agents in the economy, are
bound to fail. We return to the issue of
appropriate policy design in part III of this
report. All that can be said about the results
here is that, if policies exist that can lead to a
less unequal distribution of resources without major costs to the (static and dynamic)
efficiency of resource allocation, such poli-

cies are likely to lead to faster poverty
reduction in the future, for any amount of
growth that the economy generates.
It turns out, however, that some inequalities—not necessarily those of incomes—are
also detrimental to economic growth itself.
Such inequalities in power, assets, and access
to markets and services are most likely to be
the ones on which policy can productively
focus. The next two chapters turn to a discussion of these “inefficient inequalities.”

Inequality and investment

5

chapter

In a world in which markets worked perfectly, investment decisions would have little to do with the income, wealth, or social
status of the decision maker. They would be
determined by the returns an investment
promises and by the market price of capital,
adjusted for the extra risk it entails. If people had good investment opportunities, it
really would not matter whether they had
the money—they could always borrow
what they needed, and if the risk bothered
them, they could always sell shares in their
business and buy safer assets with the
money from the sale.
However, for various reasons—mainly
economic but also political—markets are
not perfect. If borrowers can willfully default
on their loans, lenders prefer to make loans
to borrowers who can provide collateral
assets. Private returns for politically connected firms can be higher than for those
without such connections, and so these firms
may attract more capital, even though social
returns may not be any greater.1 Members of
groups subject to discrimination may rationally invest less in their human capital than
they would in the absence of such explicit or
subtle stereotypes.
After we give up the idea that markets
work anywhere close to perfectly, the scope
for a direct link between investment and
the distribution of wealth or power widens
substantially, in many instances leading to
underinvestment by those who have good
growth opportunities.2 Correcting the
market failures directly is often not feasible, and in these cases certain redistributions of wealth, power, and resources can
serve as second-best alternatives.3 In other
words, interventions to enhance equity can
improve efficiency.

One of the great advances in development
economics in the past 15 years is the accretion of a substantial body of evidence on
documenting how well (or badly) asset and
financial markets work in developing countries. The fact that these markets rarely measure up to their ideal creates the possibility
that wealth and social status, defined as one’s
position in society both in ascriptive identity
and in connections, will have an important
influence on investment decisions. It seems
natural to start with this evidence.

Markets, wealth, status,
and investment behavior
The market for credit
In a perfect credit market, there is a single
interest rate and everyone can borrow or
lend as much as they want at that rate. That
individuals can borrow as much as they want
at the current rate explains the presumption
of a separation between the wealth or status
of the investors and the amount they invest.
Whether they are rich or poor, well-connected or just off the streets, an extra dollar
of investment will be profitable for them
only if the return they get from it is more
than the interest rate. If the interest rate is
higher, they would be better off lending that
money if it was their own, or borrowing less
if it were someone else’s. So, two people with
the same return on investment would end up
investing the same amount.4
How close are real markets to this ideal
market? Chambhar is a market town in
Sindh (Pakistan), on the east bank of the
Indus. In 1980–81 farmers from the area
around Chambhar got most of their credit
from about 60 professional moneylenders.
Based on detailed data from 14 of these
89

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

90

lenders and 60 of their clients, Aleem
(1990) calculated the average borrowing
interest rate charged as 78.5 percent. But if
these farmers wanted to lend their money,
the banking system would pay them only
about 10 percent. It is possible, however,
that they may not have been depositing in
the banks. An alternative measure of the
deposit rate that is relevant for these farmers is the opportunity cost of capital to the
moneylenders, 32.5 percent. In either case,
it suggests a gap of at least 45 percentage
points between the borrowing and lending
rates.
The borrowing rate also varied enormously across borrowers. The standard deviation of the interest rate was 38.1 percent,
compared with an average lending rate of
78.5 percent. In other words, an interest rate
of 2 percent and an interest rate of 150 percent are both within two standard deviations
of the mean. One possibility is that these differences in interest rates reflect differences in
the default rate: perhaps the expected repayment was the same for everybody, because
those who paid higher rates were more likely
to default. Also the expected repayment
could have been equal to the actual interest
rate paid to the depositors, if the default rate
was high enough. But default was rare: for
individual lenders, the median default rate
was between 1.5 percent and 2 percent, with
a maximum of 10 percent.

Figure 5.1 In rural Kerala and Tamil Nadu, the rich access most of the credit and pay relatively low
rates
125

5000

Average interest rate (%) [left scale]
Average loan size (Rs) [right scale]
Cumulative
proportion
of credit
[left scale]

100

75

4000

3000

55

2000

25

1000

0

0
0–
5,000

5,000 –
10,000

10,000 –
15,000

Source: Dasgupta, Nayar, and Associates (1989)

15,000 – 20,000 –
20,000
30,000
Asset group (Rs)

30,000 –
50,000

50,000 – 100,000
100,000 and above

The same pattern—high and variable borrowing rates, much lower deposit rates, and
low default rates—shows up in the “Summary Report on Informal Credit Markets in
India.”5 This report summarizes results from
case studies commissioned by the Asian
Development Bank and carried out under
the National Institute of Public Finance and
Policy.
For the urban sector, the data are based
on various case surveys of specific classes of
informal lenders. For the broad class of
nonbank financial intermediaries called
finance corporations, the maximum deposit
rate for loans of less than one year is 12 percent. These corporations offer advances for
one year or less at rates that vary from 48
percent per year to the utterly astronomical
5 percent per day. The rates on loans of
more than one year varied between 24 percent and 48 percent. Default, once again, is
only a small part of the story: default costs
explain only 4 percent of total interest costs.
For hire-purchase companies in Delhi, the
deposit rate was 14 percent and the lending
rate was at least 28 percent and could be as
high as 41 percent. Default costs were 3 percent of total interest costs.
For the rural sector, interest rates are
high, but they are also variable (figure
5.1). This finding is based on surveys of
six villages in Kerala and Tamil Nadu, carried out by the Centre for Development
Studies, Trivandrum. The rich (with Rs
100,000 or more in assets) get most of the
credit (nearly 60 percent) and pay a relatively low rate (33 percent), while those
with assets between Rs 20,000 and Rs
30,000 pay rates of 104 percent and get
only 8 percent of the credit. The average
interest rate charged by professional moneylenders (who provide 45.6 percent of
the credit) is about 52 percent.
While the average deposit rate is not
reported, the maximum from all the case
studies is 24 percent, and in four of them it is
no more than 14 percent. In the category of
professional moneylenders, about half the
loans were at 60 percent or more, but
another 40 percent or so had rates below 36
percent. Default rates were higher than in the
urban sector, but they still cannot explain
more than 23 percent of the interest costs.

Inequality and investment

The fact that credit access depends on
social status is also shown by Fafchamps’
(2000) study of informal trade credit in
Kenya and Zimbabwe. It reports an average
monthly interest rate of just over 2.5 percent (corresponding to an annualized rate
of 34 percent), but it also notes that the rate
for the dominant trading group (Indians in
Kenya, whites in Zimbabwe) is 2.5 percent a
month, while the blacks pay 5 percent a
month in both countries.6 Chapter 9 also
provides evidence that in many countries
“insiders” effectively lobby to limit access to
financial institutions and that lending is
skewed toward the rich, consistent with the
evidence in figure 5.1.
None of these facts is surprising. Contract
enforcement in developing countries is often
difficult, and it is not easy to get courts to
punish recalcitrant borrowers.7 As a result,
lenders often spend at lot to make sure that
their loans get repaid: it is plausible that
these are the resources that drive a wedge
between the borrowing rate and the lending
rate. Indeed, Aleem (1990) shows that the
resources spent by lenders to monitor borrowers explain the nearly 50 percentage
point gap between the lending and borrowing rates in his data. It is easy to imagine that
borrowers who are easier to monitor will
enjoy better rates, which would explain why
lending rates vary so much.
These imperfections in credit markets
have immediate implications for the relationship between wealth and investment.
First, with the rate of interest on deposits
much lower than that on loans, the opportunity cost of capital for those who just
want to invest their own money is much
lower than the opportunity cost for those
who have to borrow. This means that the
wealthy will end up investing much more
than the indigent, even if they face exactly
the same returns on their investment. Second, the lower interest rates charged to rich
people reinforce this conclusion, because
the rich then face a lower opportunity cost
when they too are borrowing. Third, in
some cases, those who are unable to provide
collateral will have no access to credit at any
interest rate.
We would thus expect the poor to underinvest, certainly relative to the rich, but also

relative to what would happen if markets
functioned properly. The capital released
because they underinvest is absorbed by the
non-poor, who may actually end up overinvesting relative to how they would invest in
perfect markets. This is the reason: because
the poor cannot borrow, the non-poor cannot lend as much as they would like to (this
is why deposit rates in developing countries
are often very low). And because the nonpoor cannot lend, it makes sense for them to
keep investing in their own firms, even when
the returns are low.
Because the poor underinvest, and because the opportunity cost of capital to the
non-poor is thus lower than it would otherwise be, the composition of the investors
also changes. In particular, firms that would
not be viable if markets functioned perfectly (for example, because the interest rate
would be too high) can survive and even
expand because markets are the way they
are. In other words, the “wrong” firms end
up investing.

The market for insurance
The ideal insurance market is one in which
people bear no avoidable risks. In a setting in
which a single village constitutes a separate
insurance market closed to the rest of the
world (so that only people in the village can
insure other people in the village, in some
kind of mutual insurance arrangement),
individual consumption should respond
only to aggregate (village-level) income fluctuations and not to fluctuations in the
income of specific individuals. Put in blunter
terms, as long as aggregate consumption is
unchanged, individual income fluctuations
should not translate into fluctuations in
individual consumption. When insurance
markets work well, risk considerations
should not have a significant impact on the
choices people make, irrespective of their
wealth, given that what an individual does
has little impact on aggregate uncertainty.
While a perfect insurance market is more
complex than a perfect credit market, and
thus harder to detect, there have been
attempts to test the prediction about the
irrelevance of fluctuations in one’s own
income. The Côte d’Ivoire Living Standards
Measurement Surveys from 1985 to 1987

91

92

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

provide panel data on the income and consumption of nearly 800 households, with
each household tracked for two consecutive
years (1985 and 1986 or 1986 and 1987). In
table 5.1, the relationship between changes
in consumption and changes in incomes is
reported separately for the three main
regions and separately for 1985–86 and
1986–87. The first row of the first block for
each year reports the basic correlation
between income and consumption: a fall in
income always hurts consumption, although
the coefficient varies between a low of 0.15
(a $1 reduction in income means that consumption goes down by $0.15) to a high of
0.46. The next row does the same thing, but
now there is a village dummy intended to
pick up any village-level changes in consumption. Remarkably, the coefficients on
own income, which under perfect insurance
should have fallen to zero after controlling
for village-level changes, barely budge.8
Not all the evidence is quite so pessimistic. Townsend (1994) used detailed
household-level data from four villages,
which were intensively studied by the International Crop Research Institute in the
Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) in India, to
see whether the full insurance hypothesis is
consistent with the data. He found that
while the data did reject the exact prediction, it did not miss by very much. In other
words, his evidence suggested that villagers
do insure each other to a considerable
extent: movements in individual consumption in his data seem largely uncorrelated
with movements in income.
Later work by Townsend, based on data
he collected in Thailand, turned out to be
less encouraging.9 Some villages seemed to

be much more effective than others in providing insurance to their residents.
Townsend describes in detail how insurance
arrangements differ across villages. While in
one village there is a web of well-functioning, risk-sharing institutions, the situations
in other villages are different. In one village,
the institutions exist but are dysfunctional;
in another, they are nonexistent; in a third,
close to the roads, there seems to be no risksharing whatsoever, even within families.10
As for credit, the failure of insurance
could have something to do with informational asymmetries. It is not easy to insure
someone against a shock that he alone
observes, because he has every incentive to
always claim that things had gone badly. But
as Duflo and Udry (2004) demonstrate,
spouses in Côte d’Ivoire do not seem to be
willing to insure each other fully against
rainfall shocks that affect them differentially. Because rainfall obviously is observable, at least part of the problem has to be
elsewhere. One possibility is limited commitment. People may be happy to claim
what was promised to them when it is their
turn to be paid, and then default when the
time comes for them to pay. This may be
particularly easy in a setting in which the
social relations between the sets of people
who are insuring each other are not particularly close, perhaps explaining why
Townsend found no insurance in the village
closest to the road.
Lack of insurance should have an effect
on the pattern of investment. That many
insurable risks are uninsured means that
one cannot invest without personally bearing a significant part of the concomitant
risk. Indeed, big corporations able to sell

Table 5.1 The effect of income shocks on consumption, Côte d’Ivoire
West Forest

East Forest

Savannah

All Rural

OLS 1985–6
No dummies
Village dummies

0.290
0.265

(6.2)
(5.7)

No dummies
Village dummies

0.458
0.424

(8.8)
(8.1)

0.153
0.155

(3.2)
(3.5)

0.368
0.373

(5.8)
(5.7)

0.259
0.223

(8.8)
(7.7)

(5.3)
(5.6)

0.168
0.164

(4.0)
(3.8)

0.239
0.235

(10.4)
(10.1)

OLS 1986–7
0.162
0.173

Source: Adapted from Deaton (1997), table 6.5, 381.
Note: Absolute value of t-statistics are shown in brackets. The first row of each panel shows the coefficient on income change of a regression of consumption changes on income changes. The second row reports the same result when village dummies are included in the
regression. OLS = Ordinary Least Squares.

Inequality and investment

their equity in organized equity markets
may be the only players who can really hope
to diversify away a large part of the risk of a
particular project. Given this fact and the
reasonable assumption that the poor are
more risk-averse than the rich, we are likely
to be in a perverse situation in which the
poor may also find it hardest to reduce their
exposure to risk. Thus, they are likely to shy
away from riskier and higher-return investments, reinforcing the prediction that the
poor invest too little.

The market for land
In a perfect land market, individuals can
buy or lease as much land as they want for
as long as they want at a price that depends
only on the quality of the land (and the
length of the lease). The lease should be at a
fixed rent, so that the lessor is the residual
claimant on the produce of the land. That
land can be freely bought and sold ensures
that there is no particular advantage or disadvantage to owning land compared with
any other asset of similar value. That the
lessor is a residual claimant means that the
land is put to optimal use. Not so, however,
in practice.
Many developing (and some developed)
countries have regulations about who can
buy land and how much or how little they
can buy. Binswanger, Deininger, and Feder
(1995) argue that almost every developing
country today has gone through a phase
when it had regulations intended to concentrate landownership. By contrast, Besley
and Burgess (2000) provide a list of regulations from different states in India, each of
which is an attempt to limit the concentration of ownership in land.
Governments also directly limit transactions in land, with the ostensible aim of
preventing the accumulation of land in the
hands of a few people. In Ethiopia in the
late 1990s, Deininger and others (2003)
note that selling and mortgaging land were
against the law. While rentals were officially allowed (after being disallowed for
two decades), local leaders and governments were free to restrict even these
rental transactions in land. For example,
the Oromia region allowed farmers to rent
only 50 percent of their holding and stipu-

lates maximum contract terms of 3 years
for traditional technologies and 15 years for
modern technologies.
It is often unclear who has the right to
sell a particular plot of land, when no single
person or family has a clear, undisputed,
legal title to the land. This ambiguity reflects
encroachments and land grabs in the evolution of land rights, as well as the importance
of custom in governing land relations, especially in Africa. The recent popularity of
land titling as a social intervention is a
direct consequence.
Where lease contracts exist, they are not
always of the fixed-rent type, at least when
the land is used for cultivation. Many countries, including the United States, have a
long tradition of an alternative contractual
form: sharecropping. Under sharecropping,
the farmer gets only a fraction of the produce, but he does not need to pay a fixed
rent. As Alfred Marshall pointed out more
than one hundred years ago, this weakens
incentives and reduces the productivity of
the land, but the near universality of sharecropping suggests that it is a response to a
real need. There is some disagreement
among economists about the exact nature
of that need.11 It is plausible, however, that
the need is related to the fact that farmers
are often poor, and making them pay the
full rent when their crop does poorly is difficult and probably not desirable.
Leaseholds in developing countries tend
to be short-lived. The norm is either a year
or a season. Longer leases are not unknown,
but they are rare. This might reflect the fact
that custom, rather than law, secures most of
these leases: perhaps it is too much to rely on
custom to enforce leases of arbitrary length.
The imperfect salability of land can, of
course, hurt anyone who owns it. But the
rural poor probably have more of their
wealth in land than most people, so making
land nonsalable might be particularly harsh
on them.
What tends to discourage investment in
the land is the lack of an explicit title, or the
insecurity of tenure more generally (caused,
for example, by the short duration of leases
and the possibility that the landlord might
threaten to take the land away at the end of
the lease). It clearly helps if land is owned

93

94

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

by the person contemplating the investment. That most who work in agriculture
tend to be too poor to buy out the land they
are cultivating is thus a potential source of
underinvestment.

The market for human capital
One thing makes the market for human
capital different from all the other asset
markets: many decisions about investing in
human capital are made by parents (or
other family members) for their children. In
other words, those making the decisions are
different from those who receive the human
capital. It is not hard to imagine why this
separation might introduce important distortions to the functioning of this market.
Gary Becker’s classic formulation avoids
this issue by assuming that the family can
borrow against the child’s future income,
turning the problem into a conventional
investment decision. Under that assumption, the amount invested will not depend
on the family’s means.
In practice, however, although human
capital is an asset, it cannot be legally
pledged or mortgaged, for the simple reason that pledging your human capital
would be tantamount to selling yourself
into slavery.12 This obviously constrains
people’s ability to borrow money to finance
investments in their education.
When parents cannot borrow against
their children’s future income—true most of
the time in most developing countries—
they may still hope that those children will
take care of them in their old age. The hope
might be that the children do grow up to
reap the benefits of their parent’s investment
and that they will pay their parents back. But
children know that they have no legal obligation to do so. If they do repay their parents, it is because they love their parents or
because society expects them to do so.
Investments in human capital may thus
be driven as much by parents’ sense of what
is the right thing to do, as by any calculation
of costs and benefits. Once we accept this, it
becomes clear that children’s human capital
may not be very different from any other
consumption good—so richer families will
tend to invest more in their children’s health
and education. And human capital decisions

may be more a product of culture and tradition than of the cold calculation of benefits.
Benefits are relevant, but the responsiveness
to them may not be as large as one might
have expected.
In the market for human capital, the
reward should be based entirely on the
human capital supplied, not on other attributes of the person supplying the skills. Discrimination based on gender, caste, religion,
or race obviously violates this, but so does a
system of job allocation based on contacts.
Until very recently, job discrimination based
on gender was the norm all over the world,
and the number of countries where such
discrimination is still either legally or
socially accepted is dwindling but significant. Even where such discrimination is
explicitly frowned on, there is some evidence of continuing discrimination. The
same is true of race, caste, and religion. Most
discrimination—unless legally mandated
through affirmative action in favor of a historically disadvantaged group, such as low
castes in India and African Americans in the
United States—flies in the face of explicit
laws against it.
One reason discrimination is so hard to
eliminate comes from its sheer insidiousness. Beliefs about differences are embedded
in everyday attitudes and practices in a way
that neither the discriminator nor the discriminated against may be conscious of,
even though these beliefs transform how
they both behave. This is what underlies the
power of the stereotype. In a telling example, Stone, Perry, and Darley (1997) asked all
participants in a recent experiment (American Caucasians, hereafter referred to as
whites) to listen to the same running
account of an athlete’s basketball performance on the radio. Half the participants were
led to believe that the target player was
white, half that he was African American.
The results indicated that information was
less likely to be absorbed if it was discordant
with the prevailing U.S. stereotypes that
whites are more academically talented than
African Americans, and that African Americans are more athletically gifted. The white
target player was perceived as exhibiting less
natural athletic ability but more “court
smarts.” The African-American target player

Inequality and investment

was perceived as exhibiting fewer court
smarts but more natural athletic ability.
Such biases have also been documented
in real-world settings. A recent study of the
effect of stereotyping on judgment finds
that prison inmates with more Afrocentric
features receive harsher sentences than
those with less Afrocentric features, controlling for race and criminal history.13
Bertrand and Mullanaithan (2003) show
evidence from a field experiment proving
beyond reasonable doubt that there is a
high degree of African-American discrimination in the United States. They sent the
same resumes to a large number of companies under either a stereotypically white
name or a stereotypical African-American
name, and found a 50 percent higher callback rate when the name was white. The
data say that having a white name is worth
as much as eight additional years of job
experience. Moreover, the discrimination
tended to be greater when the resume corresponded to someone who was better educated, suggesting that investment in human
capital among African Americans probably
is significantly underrewarded.
A very different form of discrimination
comes from the allocation of jobs based on
contacts. Munshi (2003) presents persuasive evidence that contacts are very important in the allocation of jobs for migrant
labor in the United States. The employment
prospects for Mexican migrants there, it
turns out, are much better when they are
from areas where there was an earlier outflow of migrants. Quite remarkably, it helps
if migrants are from an area where there
was a drought several years ago, which
pushed out a cohort of migrants to the
United States. These migrants then help the
later generations of migrants from that area
to find jobs. This is the clincher: it does not
help to be from an area where there was a
recent drought.
The perception of discrimination, conscious or not, can affect investments in
human capital. Those who expect to be discriminated against in a particular labor
market—rightly or wrongly, consciously or
otherwise—will tend to invest less in
acquiring the type of human capital that the
market rewards. This could, perversely, gen-

erate self-reinforcing behavior. If members
of the discriminated group invest less in
their own education, or in searching for
employment, others might use this underinvestment to confirm their prejudice
against that group.
Stereotypes can be self-fulfilling not only
because they influence perceptions of the
target of the stereotype, but also because
they influence the behavior of the individuals who are stereotyped. Stone and others
(1999) asked college undergraduate volunteers to play a miniature golf course. Performance was measured by how many strokes
were needed to put the ball in the hole:
fewer strokes meant better performance.
The variable that the experimenters manipulated was the description of the task. In
one treatment, the task was described as a
“standardized test of natural athletic ability,” in the other as a “standardized test of
sports intelligence.” When the task was
described as a test of natural athletic ability,
the African-American participants performed better than the whites: they averaged 23.1 strokes to complete the 10-hole
golf course, compared with 27.8 for the
whites. But when the task was described as a
test of sports intelligence, the race gap was
reversed: African Americans averaged 27.2
strokes, whites 23.3.
One way to interpret this behavior is that
social ideas—stereotypes about the talents
of different social groups—impose bounds
from within. Under the rational, self-interest hypothesis, individuals change their
behavior only when their preferences or
external constraints change. But the behavior of real individuals depends as well on
belief systems that society impresses on
them. Negative stereotypes create anxiety
that may interfere with performance: that is
why the psychologist Claude Steele termed
this kind of behavior “stereotype threat.”14
The beliefs underlying the stereotypes, if
deeply internalized, can affect early decisions about prospective careers, and attitudes toward society, by changing what
Appadurai (2004) calls a person’s “capacity
to aspire.” The reader may recall the example (from chapter 2) of the Batwa girl who
wanted to be a cleaner upon completing
school. Positive stereotypes, by contrast, can

95

96

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

boost self-confidence and lead individuals
to expend greater effort.
Stereotypes influence behavior twice—
through their impact on individuals’ selfconfidence, and through their impact on the
way individuals expect to be treated. To
examine the effect of stereotypes on the ability of individuals to respond to economic
incentives, Hoff and Pandey (2004) undertook experiments with low- and high-caste
children in rural north India. The caste system in India can be described as a highly
stratified social hierarchy in which groups of
individuals are invested with different social
status and social meaning.
In the first experiment, groups composed
of three low-caste (“untouchable”) and
three high-caste junior high school students
were asked to solve mazes and were paid
based on the number of mazes they solved.
In one condition, no personal information
about the participants was announced. In a
second condition, caste was announced with
each participant’s name and village. In a
third condition, participants were segregated by caste and then each participant’s
name, village, and caste were announced in
the six-person group.
When caste was not announced, there
was no caste gap in performance (figure
5.2). But increasing the salience of caste led
to a significant decline in the average perFigure 5.2 Children’s performance differs when their
caste is made public
Average number of mazes solved, by caste,
in five experimental treatments
8
Piece rate

Tournament

6

formance of the low caste, regardless of
whether the payment scheme was piece rate
(that is, participants were paid 1 rupee per
maze solved) or tournament (that is, the
participant who solved the most mazes was
paid 6 rupees per maze solved, while the
other participants received nothing). When
caste was announced, the low-caste children
solved 25 percent fewer mazes on average in
the piece-rate treatments, compared with
the performance of subjects when caste was
not announced. When caste was announced
and groups were composed of six children
drawn from only the low caste (a pattern of
segregation that for the low caste implicitly
evokes their traditional outcast status), the
decline in low-caste performance was even
greater. While we cannot be sure from these
data what the children were thinking, some
combination of loss of self-confidence and
expectation of prejudicial treatment likely
explains the result.
The expectation by the low-caste subjects of prejudicial treatment may be
rational given the discrimination in their
villages. But the discrimination itself may
not be fully rational. Cognitive limitations
may prevent others from judging stigmatized individuals fairly. That people are
bounded in their ability to process information creates broad scope for belief systems—in which some social groups are
viewed as innately inferior to others—to
influence economic behavior. If such beliefs
persist, it will generally be rational for those
discriminated against to underinvest (with
respect to others) in the accumulation of
skills for which the return is likely to be
lower for them. This rational calculation is
additional to any reduction in their “capacity to aspire,” arising from the internalization of those beliefs.

4

2

High caste
Low caste

0
Caste
Caste
Caste
Caste
Caste
announced
not announced announced
not
and
announced
announced
segregated
Source: Hoff and Pandey (2004).
Note: A vertical line in the figure indicates that the caste gaps are
statistically significant.

The evidence on
underinvestment
Highly imperfect markets suggest considerable scope for underinvestment.

Industry and trade
Direct estimates of marginal products show
that there are many unexploited investment
opportunities. For small Mexican firms

Inequality and investment

with less than $200 invested, the rate of
return reaches 15 percent per month, well
above the informal interest rates available in
pawn shops or through microcredit programs (on the order of 3 percent a month)
(figure 5.3).15 Estimated rates of return
decline with investment, but the rates
remain high—7 percent to 10 percent a
month for firms with investments between
$200 and $500, and 5 percent for firms with
investments between $500 and $1,000. All
these firms are thus too small and could
reap large gains from increased investment.
Trade credit is an important form of
credit everywhere, perhaps especially where
the formal institutions of the credit market
are underdeveloped. Fisman (2001a) looked
at the relation between access to trade credit
and capacity utilization for 545 firms in
Côte d’Ivoire, Kenya, Tanzania, Zambia, and
Zimbabwe. He finds that firms that receive
trade credit from three main suppliers (on
average, about one of the three suppliers
provides trade credit) have 10 percent better
capacity utilization than firms that receive
no trade credit. The relation is much
stronger in industries in which it is important to carry large inventories.
Such studies present serious methodological issues, however. The basic problem
comes from the fact that investment levels
are likely to be correlated with omitted variables. For example, in a world without credit
constraints, investment will be positively
correlated with the expected returns to
investment, generating a positive “ability
bias.”16 McKenzie and Woodruff (2003)
attempt to control for managerial ability by
including the firm owner’s wage in previous
employment. This goes only part of the way,
however, if individuals choose to enter selfemployment precisely because their expected
productivity in self-employment is much
higher than their productivity in an
employed job. Conversely, if capital is allocated to firms to avoid their failure, there
could be a negative ability bias.
Banerjee and Duflo (2004a) take advantage of a change in the definition of the
“priority sector” in India to circumvent
these difficulties. All banks in India are
required to lend at least 40 percent of their
net credit to the “priority sector,” which

Figure 5.3 Returns to capital vary with firm size:
evidence from small Mexican firms
Monthly returns (%)
30

20

10

0
0

100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000
Nonrented capital (US$)

Source: McKenzie and Woodruff (2003).

includes small industry. In January 1998,
the limit on total investment in plants and
machinery for a firm to be eligible for inclusion in the small industry category was
raised from Rs 6.5 million to Rs 30 million.
The researchers first show that, after the
reforms, newly eligible firms (those with
investment between Rs 6.5 million and Rs
30 million) received, on average, larger
increments in their working capital limit
than smaller firms. They then show that the
sales and profits increased faster for these
firms during the same period. Putting these
two facts together, researchers can estimate
the impact of the increased access to working capital on the growth in profits. Allowing for the possibility that the firms in the
priority sector were paying less than the
true cost of capital for the extra money
from the bank, they estimate that the
returns to capital in these firms must be at
least 94 percent.
A different kind of evidence for underinvestment comes from the fact that many
people pay the high interest rates reported
earlier. Given that this money typically goes
into financing trade and industry, the presumption is that the people borrowing at
these rates of often 50 percent or more must
have a marginal product of capital that is
even higher. But the average marginal product in developing countries seems to be
nowhere near 50 percent. One way to get at
the average of the marginal products is to
look at the incremental capital-output ratio
(ICOR) for the country as a whole.17 For

97

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

98

Figure 5.4 Inefficient allocation of resources; the example of the Gounders vs. the outsiders
Gounder firms of all ages own more capital

Gounders lose early lead in sales around fifth year

log capital stock (100,000 Rs)

log sales value (100,000 Rs)

3.5

7.0
6.5

3.0

6.0

Gounders

5.5
2.5

Gounders

5.0
4.5

Outsiders
2.0

Outsiders

4.0
0

1

2

3 4 5 6 7
Years of experience

8

9

10

0

1

2

3 4 5 6 7
Years of experience

8

9

10

Source: Banerjee and Munshi (2004).

Figure 5.5 Average returns for
switching to pineapples as an
intercrop can exceed 1,200 percent
Per hectare profits (1,000 Cedis)
20,000
Pineapple profits
15,000
10,000

Non-pineapple
profits

5,000
0
–5,000
0

20
40
60
80
100
Cumulative percent of plots

Source: Goldstein and Udry (1999).

the late 1990s the International Monetary
Fund (IMF) estimates the ICOR to be more
than 4.5 for India and 3.7 for Uganda. The
implied upper bound on the average marginal product is 22 percent for India and 27
percent in Uganda.
That many firms in India have a marginal product of 50 percent or more, while
the average marginal product is only 22 percent or so, is strong prima facie evidence for
the misallocation of capital. The firms with
the marginal product of 50 percent and
more are clearly too small, while other firms
(the ones who bring the average down to 22
percent) must, in some sense, be too large.
A specific example of this kind of misallocation of capital comes from a study of
the knitted garment industry in the southern Indian town of Tirupur.18 Two groups
of people operate in Tirupur: Gounders
and outsiders. The Gounders, who issue
from a small, wealthy, agricultural community from the area around Tirupur, moved
into the readymade garment industry
because there were not many investment
opportunities in agriculture. Outsiders
from various regions and communities
started joining the city in the 1990s.
The Gounders, unsurprisingly, have
much stronger ties in the local community,
and thus better access to local finance. But
they may be expected to have less natural
ability for garment manufacturing than the
outsiders, who came to Tirupur precisely
because of its reputation as a center for garment export. The Gounders own about

twice as much capital as the outsiders on
average. Gounder firms of all ages own
more capital, although there is a strong tendency toward convergence as the firms age
(figure 5.4a). The Gounders, despite owning more capital, lose their early lead in
sales by about the fifth year, and end up selling less (figure 5.4b). In other words, outsiders invest less and produce more. They
are clearly more able than the Gounders,19
but because they are less cash-rich and do
not have the right connections, they end up
working with less capital.

Agriculture
There is also direct evidence of high rates of
returns on productive investment in agriculture. In the forest-savannah in Southern
Ghana, cocoa cultivation, receding for many
years because of the swollen shoot disease,
has been replaced by a cassava-maize intercrop. Recently, pineapple cultivation for
export to Europe offered a new opportunity
for farmers in this area. In 1997 and 1998
more than 200 households cultivating 1,070
plots in four clusters in this area were surveyed every six weeks for about two years.
Pineapple production dominates the traditional intercrop (figure 5.5),20 and the average returns associated with switching from
the traditional maize and cassava intercrops
to pineapple is estimated to be in excess of
1,200 percent! Yet only 190 out of 1,070
plots were used for pineapple. When the
authors asked farmers why they were not
farming pineapple, the virtually unanimous
response was, “I don’t have the money,”21
although some heterogeneity in ability
between those who have switched to pineapple and those who have not, cannot be
entirely ruled out.
Evidence from experimental farms suggests that, in Africa, the rate of returns to
using chemical fertilizer (for maize) would
also be high. But the evidence may not be
realistic if the ideal conditions of an experimental farm cannot be reproduced on
actual farms. Foster and Rosenzweig (1995)
show, for example, that the returns to
switching to high-yielding varieties were
actually low in the early years of the green
revolution in India, and the returns were
even negative for farmers without an educa-

Inequality and investment

tion. This, despite the fact that these varieties had been selected precisely for having
high yields, in proper conditions. But they
required complementary inputs in the correct quantities and timing. If farmers were
not able or did not know how to supply
them, the rates of returns were actually low.
Chemical fertilizer, however, is not a new
technology, and the proper way to use it is
well understood. To estimate the rates of
returns to using fertilizer on farms in
Kenya, Duflo, Kremer, and Robinson
(2004), in collaboration with a small nongovernmental organization (NGO), set up
small randomized trials on people’s farms.
Each farmer in the trial delimited two small
plots. On one randomly selected plot, a field
officer from the NGO helped the farmer
apply fertilizer. Other than that, the farmers
continued to farm as usual. The rates of
return from using a small amount of fertilizer varied from 169 percent to 500 percent,
depending on the year, although marginal
returns declined quickly with the quantity
of fertilizer used on a plot of a given size.
Evidence for a different type of underinvestment in agriculture is the negative sizeproductivity relationship, the idea that the
smallest farms tend to be the most productive (table 5.2). The gap in the productivity
of small and large farms within a country
can be enormous: a factor of 5.6 in Brazil
and a factor of 2.75 in Pakistan.22 It is
smaller in Malaysia (1.5), but a large farm in
Malaysia is not very large. This is strong
prima facie evidence that markets are somehow not allocating the right amount of land
to those who currently farm the smaller
plots.
The problem with this kind of evidence is
that it ignores the many reasons why the bigger farm may be inherently less productive,
for example, lower soil quality. Even so, similar (but somewhat less dramatic) results
show up even after controlling for differences in land quality. The profit-wealth ratio
in Indian ICRISAT villages is the highest for
the smallest farms, and when risk is comparatively low, the gap is more than 3:1 (figure
5.6). Because wealth includes the value of
the land, the measure implicitly takes into
account differences in the quality of the
land. It does so as long as land prices are a

99

Table 5.2 Farm size productivity differences, selected countries
Farm size

Northeast Brazil

Punjab, Pakistan

Muda, Malaysia

Small farm
(hectares)

563
(10.0–49.9)

274
(5.1–10.1)

148
(0.7–1.0)

100
(500+)

100
(20+)

100
(5.7–11.3)

Largest farm
(hectares)

Source: Berry and Cline (1979).
Note: 100 = land productivity in the largest farm size.

Figure 5.6 Profit-wealth ratios are highest for the
smallest farms
Profit/wealth ratio
0.4
20th percentile
0.3

0.2

40th percentile

0.1

60th percentile

80th percentile

0
10

12

14

16

18

20

22

24

Monsoon onset, standard deviation (weeks)
Source: Rosenzweig and Binswansger (1993).
Note: The standard deviation of the date of monsoon onset is a
measure of underlying risk. The onset date of the monsoon was the
single most powerful of eight rainfall characteristics to explain
gross farm output. The data come from the Indian ICRISAT villages.

reasonable measure of land quality, which,
however, is not entirely clear. There are also
residual doubts about whether the returns
are well measured—it is possible that the
land of the smaller farms is degrading faster,
but the degradation is not being counted
while calculating the returns.
For these same firms, when risk goes up,
the average return goes down. In part this
may be inevitable, but it may also reflect the
fact that the lack of insurance encourages
people to avoid risky (but remunerative)
choices.23 This is consistent with the fact that
profitability falls faster for the poorer farmers (less able to self-insure) as the risk goes
up. Specifically, a one-standard-deviation increase in the coefficient of variation of rainfall leads to a 35 percent reduction in the
profit of poor farmers, a 15 percent reduction in the profit of median farmers, and no
reduction in the profit of rich farmers. The
study also finds that input choices are
affected by variability in rainfall, and in par-

100

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

ticular, poor farmers make less efficient input
choices in a risky environment.
In related work, Morduch (1993) specifically investigated how the anticipation of a
credit constraint affects the decision to
invest in high-yielding variety seeds. Using
a methodology inspired by Zeldes (1989),
he splits the sample into two groups—one
group of landholders expected to have the
ability to smooth their consumption, and
one group that owns little land, expected to
be constrained. He finds that the more constrained group devotes a considerably
smaller fraction of land to high-yielding
variety seeds for rice and castor.
Another consequence of the lack of
insurance is that it may lead households to
use productive assets as buffer stocks and
consumption smoothing devices, which
would be a cause for inefficient investment.
Rosenzweig and Wolpin (1993) argue that
bullocks (an essential productive asset in
agriculture) serve this purpose in rural
India. They show, using ICRISAT data covering three villages in semiarid areas in
India, that bullocks, which constitute a large
part of households’ liquid wealth (50 percent for the poorest farmers), are bought
and sold quite frequently (86 percent of
households had either bought or sold a bullock in the previous year). Moreover, they
buy when they are flush with money and
sell when they are broke.
Since people are not simultaneously selling and buying land, they are not selling
these animals because they no longer need
them for production. Indeed, from the view
point of production, most of these farmers
should own two bullocks and never sell
them. If they are selling, the reason is that
they need the money for consumption. The
data suggest that, for poor or midsize farmers, there is considerable underinvestment
in bullocks, presumably because of the borrowing constraints and the inability to borrow and accumulate financial assets to
smooth consumption: almost half the
households in any given year hold no bullocks (most of the others own exactly
two).24
There is also compelling evidence that
sharecroppers lack incentives. Binswanger

and Rosenzweig (1986) and Shaban (1987)
both show that productivity is 30 percent
lower in sharecropped plots, controlling for
farmers’ fixed effects (that is, comparing the
productivity of owner-cultivated and farmed
land for farmers who cultivate both their
own land and that of others) and for land
characteristics. Shaban (1987) shows that
all the inputs are lower on sharecropped
land, including short-term investments
(fertilizer and seeds). He also finds systematic differences in land quality (ownercultivated land has a higher price per
hectare), which could in part reflect longterm investment.
On the impact of security of property,
Do and Iyer (2003) find that a land reform
that gave farmers the right to sell, transfer, or
inherit their land-use rights also increased
agricultural investment, particularly the
planting of multiyear crops (such as coffee).
Laffont and Matoussi (1995) use data from
Tunisia to show that a shift from sharecropping to owner cultivation raised output by
33 percent, and moving from a short-term
tenancy contract to a longer-term contract
increased output by 27.5 percent.25
Security of property rights is often
linked to the local power structure. The
connection between inequalities in power
and underinvestment is nicely exemplified
by the Goldstein and Udry (2002) study of
investment in land in a setting where land is
allocated by custom (rural Ghana). They
show that individuals are less likely to leave
their land fallow (an investment in longrun productivity of the land) if they do not
hold a position of power within either the
hierarchy of the village or the hierarchy of
the lineage. The problem is that the land
gets taken away from them when it is lying
fallow. Because women rarely hold these
positions, women’s land is not left fallow
enough and is much less productive than
men’s.

Human capital
According to the report of the Commission
on Macroeconomics and Health (2001),
returns to investing in health are on the
order of 500 percent. But these numbers,
arrived at through cross-country growth

Inequality and investment

regressions, are not as easy to interpret as
what would actually happen if someone
were to invest an extra dollar in health. That
said, there clearly are examples of specific
health interventions that have enormous
private and social returns. There is substantial experimental evidence that supplementation in iron and vitamin A increases productivity at relatively low cost.
• Basta, Soekirman, and Scrimshaw (1979)
study iron supplementation among rubber tree tappers in Indonesia. Baseline
health measures indicated that 45 percent of the study population was anemic.
The intervention combined an iron supplement and an incentive (given to both
treatment and control groups) to take
the pill on time. Work productivity
among those who got the treatment
increased by 20 percent (or $132 a year),
at a cost per worker-year of $0.50. Even
taking into account the cost of the incentive ($11 a year), the intervention suggests extremely high rates of returns.
• Thomas and others (2005) obtain lower
but still high estimates in a larger experiment, also in Indonesia. They found that
iron supplementation experiments in
Indonesia reduced anemia, increased the
probability of participating in the labor
market, and increased earnings of selfemployed workers. They estimate that,
for self-employed males, the benefits of
iron supplementation amount to $40 per
year, at a cost of $6 per year.26
• The cost-benefit analysis of a deworming
program27 in Kenya reports estimates of
a similar order of magnitude. Taking
into account externalities (because of the
contagious nature of worms), the program led to an average increase in
schooling of 0.14 years. Using a reasonable figure for the returns to a year of
education, this additional schooling will
lead to a benefit of $30 over the life of the
child, at a cost of $0.49 per child per year.
Not all interventions have the same rates
of return, however. A study of Chinese
cotton mill workers28 led to a significant
increase in fitness, but no corresponding
increase in productivity.

Measured returns to private investment in
education tend not to be quite so high.
Banerjee and Duflo (2004b) survey crosscountry evidence, and conclude that—
Using the preferred data, the Mincerian rates
of returns seem to vary little across countries:
the mean rate of returns is 8.96, with a standard deviation of 2.2. The maximum rate of
returns to education (Pakistan) is 15.4 percent, and the minimum is 2.7 percent (Italy).29

But most of the educational benefits of
deworming mentioned above would be
captured by a child whose parents are
willing to spend $0.50 on the deworming
medicine. This clearly offers a return
much higher than the measured Mincerian returns at affordable absolute cost,
although they are not strictly comparable. Deworming does not require the
child to spend more years in school, but
it does help the child get more out of the
years he or she is already spending in
school. However, when the deworming
medicine was offered free to the children, the take-up was only 57 percent. In
this sense, it is clear that at least some
causes of underinvestment have to be
found in the way the family makes decisions, rather than in the lack of
resources.
The fact that a lack of connections alters
the nature of human capital investment is
nicely demonstrated in a recent paper by
Munshi and Rosenzweig (forthcoming).
They show that, in India, trade liberalization increased returns to knowing the English language in families with connections
in the blue-collar sector compared with
families with no connections. However,
there is a much bigger gap between girls and
boys in the increase in enrollment in English-medium schools. This is attributed to
the fact that girls never really expected to
get these blue-collar jobs, while for their
brothers, it depended on whether they had
the right contacts.

Inequalities and investment
Four important points follow from this
body of evidence: first, markets in developing countries are highly imperfect, and

101

102

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

those who do not have enough wealth or
social status tend to underinvest. The
resources underused because of this underinvestment end up being used for some less
productive purpose, reducing overall productivity. In the example from the knitted
garment industry in Tirupur, the Gounders
were overinvesting in their own relatively
unproductive firms, while the much more
productive firms of the outsiders were
starved of capital. The land owned by
Ghanaian women was getting degraded,
because they did not have the social status
needed to hold on to the land during the
fallowing period. This, once again, is a pure
loss for society. The fact that other people
who do have status and can fallow their
land as needed is not, in any way, compensating for the loss of productivity on the
lands of the powerless. This creates a strong
presumption that certain specific types of
redistribution, by empowering certain people or increasing their access to resources
or contacts, can promote efficiency and
equity.
Second, this hypothesis would imply a bias
in favor of those kinds of redistribution that
target the specific lack of access to resources or
influence causing the inefficiency. In some situations this will mean redistributing assets,
but it also might mean redistributing access to
capital, perhaps by promoting microcredit,
strengthening women’s land rights or access
to jobs and welfare programs, designing
affirmative action programs to break down
stereotyping, and improving access to justice
systems.
Third, because investments build wealth
and wealth makes it easier to invest in a
world where markets do not function very
well, a little help can go a long way. Starting
the right business might be the biggest challenge: once started, the business might propel itself forward without any further help.
Fourth, it is not clear that the beneficiaries from this kind of efficiency-promoting
redistribution have to be the poorest of the
poor. Because the ideal is to promote productive investments, the target should be
those most likely to make these investments. Whether the poorest are the right
people from this point of view is an empirical question, and one for which the answer

might depend on the set of economic
opportunities available.
The microcredit community, in particular, has long debated this last issue in trying
to decide whether microcredit is best instrument for helping the poorest of the poor.
This clearly turns partly on whether the
poorest are the ones who have the projects
with the highest returns, which could be the
case if the poor and the less poor have the
same kinds of production functions, and if
there are diminishing returns to scale. If,
instead, the most productive technology in
this area had a fixed cost of production but
(say) diminishing returns otherwise, giving
the poorest access to more capital may not
be very productive: even with all the capital
they can get, they may not be able to cover
the fixed cost. It may be more effective to
help people who are slightly richer, because
with some help they may actually be able to
start a business.
How good or bad is the assumption of
decreasing returns in the production function of an individual firm? As mentioned
above, McKenzie and Woodruff (2003) estimate a production function for small Mexican firms, suggesting strong diminishing
returns. Mesnard and Ravallion (2004) find
weak diminishing returns using Tunisian
data. But estimating a production function
that exhibits local increasing returns is
inherently difficult. A firm is likely to grow
(or shrink) quickly when it is in the region
of increasing returns. So we will observe few
firms in this region, and be likely to reject
too often the assumption of local increasing
returns. Certainly the natural interpretation
of the results in Banerjee and Duflo (2004a),
showing close to 100 percent returns in
medium firms in India, is that there are
increasing returns over some range.
A corollary of this discussion is that the
redistribution that maximizes productivity
growth is not necessarily the one that has
the strongest immediate effect on poverty.
Nor is it the one that does most to reduce
inequality. Indeed, except under very special circumstances, this discussion tells us
nothing about the relation between some
global measure of inequality and the efficiency of resource use or investment. Consider the case, discussed above, in which the

Inequality and investment

production function has a fixed cost but
also diminishing returns. If all firms are
equal and the maximum they can each
invest is less than the fixed cost, no one will
be able to start a firm. Increasing inequality
will raise the productivity of capital by
making it possible for some firms to pay the
fixed cost. Because there are also diminishing returns, however, there will be a point at
which any further increase in overall
inequality would be counterproductive.
More generally, the effect of inequality
will depend on the shape of the production
function, and the size of the investment
potential of the average person relative to
the fixed cost. Obviously, the issue gets even
more complicated if different firms have different production functions and if productivity is correlated with the owner’s wealth
(as it might be if the owner’s education is an
important input into production and richer
people tend to be more educated).
Several authors have tried to look for a
systematic relation in cross-country data
between inequality and growth (presumably
what investment is meant to achieve). A
lengthy body of literature30 estimated a longrun equation, with growth between 1990 and
1960, for example, regressed on income in
1960, a set of control variables, and inequality in 1960. Estimating these equations
tended to generate negative coefficients for
inequality. But there are obvious concerns
about whether such a relation could be
driven entirely by omitted variables. To
address this problem, Li and Zou (1998),
Forbes (2000), and others used the time
series dimension of the Deininger and Squire
data set to look (effectively) at the effect of
short-run changes in inequality on changes
in growth.31 The results change rather dramatically: the coefficient of inequality in this
specification is positive and significant.
A recent review paper by Voitchovsky
(2004) concludes that both these effects are
quite robust. Most studies that look at the
cross-sectional relationship between inequality and subsequent growth over a relatively
long period in cross-country data, and especially those that use measures of asset
inequality, find a negative relationship, often
significant.32 By contrast, most studies that
look at the relationship between changes in

inequality and changes in growth, including
several studies that do the analysis at the subnational level within the same country, find a
positive effect.
Both Banerjee and Duflo (2003) and
Voitchovsky (2004) conclude that there is no
reason to give one of these sets of results priority over the other. Indeed, both could be
right. For example, in the short run, policies
that allow large cuts in real wages might
encourage investment, but in the long run,
the consequent increase in poverty might
make it harder for the population to maintain
its human capital. Or both could be wrong.
Most important among the many reasons for
both the cross-sectional and the time series
evidence to be misleading are the following:
the possibility of a nonlinear relationship
between inequality and growth, problems
with comparability of cross-country data,
and the difficult question of identifying the
direction of causality when both variables are
likely to influence one another.
This lack of clear-cut results is perhaps disappointing, but it is worth emphasizing that
our focus here has been on redressing specific inequalities in productive opportunities
rather than some overall measure of inequality. Despite the great attention devoted to the
question of a systematic relationship between
overall inequality and growth at the country
level, the body of evidence remains unconvincing. But there clearly are situations in
which there is a strong presumption that
reducing a specific inequality would promote
better investment.
One such example comes from Operation Barga, a tenancy reform in the Indian
state of West Bengal in the late 1970s and
1980s. It has been known, at least since the
work of the great Victorian economist
Alfred Marshall, that sharecropping provides poor incentives and discourages
effort. In such an environment, a government intervention that forces the landlords
to give their sharecroppers a higher share of
the output than the market would give
them should increase effort and productivity. This is exactly what happened in West
Bengal, India, when a Left Front government came to power in 1977. The tenant’s
share of output was set at a minimum of 75
percent as long as the tenant provided all

103

104

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

inputs. In addition, the tenant was guaranteed a large measure of security of tenure,
which may have encouraged him or her to
undertake more long-term investments on
the land. Survey evidence shows a substantial increase in both the security of tenure
and the share of output going to the sharecropper. The fact that the implementation
of this reform was bureaucratically driven,
and proceeded at different speeds in different areas, suggests the possibility of using
variation in the implementation of the
reform to evaluate its impact. The evidence
suggests that there was a 62 percent increase
in the productivity of the land.33
A different program, also promoting
equity and efficiency, had to do with redressing the effects of intrafamily inequality. A
long line of research claims that income and
expenditures are often controlled by the
male members of the family and that this
leads to underinvestment, especially in the
health and education of girls. One fallout of
dismantling the apartheid regime in South
Africa was the expansion of the South
African social pension program to the black
population. Pension entitlements would
accrue to elderly males and females, and
many older women living alone were entitled
to receive the benefit. In many cases, children
of very poor parents were sent to live with
grandparents who began to receive these
pensions. Duflo (2003) compared the impact
of these new transfers on the nutrition of
children living with their grandparents, separately for households in which the pension
was given to the grandmother and those in
which it was assigned to a grandfather.
For children born before the expansion,
in 1990 and 1991, height-for-age was slightly
lower in families in which the grandmother
would eventually get the pension. For children born after the expansion, in 1992 and
1993, the children are significantly taller
(except for the newborns) in those families.
There is no difference between noneligible
families and families in which pension

money goes to the grandfather. (Boys are
essentially unaffected.) The estimates suggest that receipt of the pension (which was
about twice the per capita income among
blacks) was enough to help girls bridge half
the gap in height-for-age between South
African and American children.
These examples show that it is possible to
enhance both equity and efficiency simultaneously. Judicious redistribution—of income
to grandmothers, of power to poor women
farmers, of credit to entrepreneurs in small
firms—can increase the productivity of
resources, such as land, human capital, and
physical capital. If markets fail, resources do
not always flow to where their return is greatest, particularly if that happens to be in projects run by people with limited wealth or
influence. Careful microeconomic case study
evidence, some of which was summarized in
this chapter, suggests that certain forms of
redistribution can reduce waste and contribute to a better use of resources, while also
reducing inequality of opportunity. In fact, it
enhances efficiency precisely because it
reduces inequality of opportunity.
This is not to say that one cannot easily
imagine certain types of redistribution that
hurt efficiency. But given the near universality of market failures and underinvestment
in poor countries, it should be possible, with
a combination of good research and careful
thinking, to identify opportunities for redirecting resources to poorer people who are
in a position to make good use of them.
In making the case for improvements
in equity that are also efficiency-enhancing, this chapter used mainly microeconomic evidence on markets, wealth,
and agency of individuals. The next chapter uses a different set of historical, macroeconomic, and institutional evidence to
argue that complex historical processes,
combined with inequalities in influence and
power, may lead to bad political and economic institutions, which severely impair
the development of poor countries.

focus 3 on

Spain

Equity and development in the Spanish transition to democracy
In the last half century, Spain has gone from authoritarianism and underdevelopment to democracy and wealth. Spain’s
history illustrates how the distribution of political agency and economic assets greatly influences the policy choices available to a society. The fundamentals of economic and political structure influence and constrain the choices. But the
process is not deterministic: political agency and policies can shift the underlying fundamentals (as happened in Spain in
the 1960s and 1970s) and open the space for new choices.

Before the civil war:
social and economic polarization
Until the second half of the twentieth century, Spanish contemporary history was a
tale of political and economic failure. After
a period of territorial expansion and European hegemony in the early modern ages,
Spain lapsed into economic decline and
cultural stagnation in the following centuries. During most of the nineteenth century, its industrial takeoff was blocked by
political instability, inefficient legal institutions, substantial inequalities, and a poorly
educated population. In 1929, per capita
income was $3,000 (in 1990 dollars)—
two-fifths that of Britain and less than twothirds that of France.
Spain was polarized by entrenched social
and economic inequalities. In a country still
eminently agrarian, the distribution of land
was very unequal. About 1 percent of the
holdings occupied 50 percent of the land.
Educational attainment remained low,
strictly linked to circumstances of birth.
Social mobility was almost nonexistent.
Except for Catalonia and the Basque country, which industrialized in the nineteenth
century, Spain lacked a large middle class.
Against this backdrop of relative stagnation and high inequality, democratic institutions were introduced in 1931—only the
second time in Spanish history. They did
not last long. The brief democratic period
(1931–36) was characterized by huge political instability and social agitation. The first
Republican government pushed ahead with
a strong reformist program: separation of
church and state; a single system of state
schools and a goal to universalize education; a process of land reform; a law to
decentralize political power to Catalonia;
and stepped up efforts to reform the army.
These reforms elicited a strong reaction
from the right, which came to power in
1933 and quickly moved to halt them. Two
and a half years later, in the spring of 1936,

new elections were held, with a victory for
the left. The threat of more radical policies
prompted a military uprising, supported by
the landed classes, much of the bourgeoisie,
and the church. Spain became engulfed in a
three-year civil war. The social polarization
locked Spain into a zero-sum gain over the
distribution of wealth. There was little
political space for compromise or reformist
solutions. The “haves” opposed all attempts
at even minimalist reform. The “have-nots”
wanted radical change, not gradual reform.

The Franco regime:
from autarky to growth
With the defeat of the Republican government by the Nationalist army in 1939, Generalissimo Francisco Franco established an
authoritarian regime that lasted until his
death in 1975. The destruction caused by the
civil war depressed the Spanish economy. Per
capita income fell to its 1900 level and did
not reach its 1918 level until 1950. The proportion of the active population in industry
declined to 22 percent in 1940 (the level in
1920) and the share of employed in agriculture rose above 50 percent. Growth averaged
only 1.2 percent a year in the 1940s.
Spain’s economic recovery was hampered, above all, by the autarkic and statist
policies of the Franco regime. Inspired by
the corporatist ideologies of Italian Fascism
and German Nazism, Franco’s regime generalized a system of price controls and
rationing and regulated foreign trade
through quantitative controls. This interventionist strategy extended to the labor
and housing market. To quell one of the
main forces that opposed the military insurrection, Franco outlawed any independent
labor unions. Instead, workers and employers had to affiliate in a national trade union
organization. This repressive stance was
“compensated” by strict labor legislation
that made it hard for employers to dismiss
workers or to hire them through temporary

contracts. Emphasis on permanent jobs and
cheap housing was seen as a substitute for
the lack of direct social policies, an attempt
by the regime to win legitimacy.
In the late 1950s, Spain eventually
moved to break with this interventionist
system. An acute political crisis—associated
with a wave of strikes, an economic recession, and severe balance-of-payment
crisis—led the government to adopt a stabilization plan in March 1959. In addition to
fiscal and monetary restraint, the plan
included wide-ranging measures to liberalize the economy. It was an outright success.
From 1960 to the outbreak of the first oil
crisis, output expanded at an average annual
rate of more than 7 percent with very little
interyear volatility. Per capita income
almost tripled from about $3,000 (in 1990
dollars) to $8,500 in 15 years. Productivity
growth averaged 6 percent.
The transformation of the Spanish economy led to significant structural changes in
Spanish society. The combination of economic growth, industrial expansion and
internal migration produced a substantial
decline in the levels of interregional
inequality (from a standard deviation in per
capita income of 0.37 in 1955 to 0.27 in
1973). Interhousehold inequality also
declined considerably: the Gini coefficient
for wages and salaries of employees (agrarian and industrial) declined from 0.29 in
1964 to 0.23 in 1973; the Gini coefficient for
household income fell from 0.39 in 1964 to
0.36 in 1974. The income share of the three
central deciles went up from about 51 percent to 59 percent in that decade.
Still, significant social and economic
inequities remained. Although the illiteracy
rate had fallen to 10 percent by 1970, only 6
percent of the population had completed
secondary studies. Wages remained dampened by repressive labor institutions. Taxation and public spending were low, and
redistributive social programs nonexistent.

106

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Transitioning to democracy
and building the welfare state
Following Franco’s death in 1975, King
Juan Carlos became the Spanish head of
state. He immediately launched a process of
political change. Employing the legal mechanisms put in place by the very technocratic
generation that had reformed the economy
in the early 1960s, as well as pointing to
wide popular support for democracy, he
secured the consent of the old Francoist
Cortes to establish a truly democratic parliament elected through direct, competitive
elections.
The political reform was ratified with
overwhelming popular support in a referendum in December 1976. Although
conducted in a climate of uncertainty, particularly over the reaction of the army and
the extent to which terrorist violence or
labor mobilization could disrupt the negotiations, democratic elections were held in
June 1977. After protracted negotiations, a
new constitution was approved in 1978 with
the support of all parliamentary groups. To
reinforce the political pact in parliament,
the government also struck a wide economic and social deal with employers and
trade unions that same year.
Spain’s democratization was rooted in
the new economic and social conditions of

the 1960s and 1970s. Rapid industrialization and urbanization deflated past conflicts around the distribution of land. The
expansion of literacy and the increase in
productivity and incomes generated a large
middle class. Sustained growth defused
social conflict with the credible promise of
higher incomes and more social mobility.
In short, Spain had overcome the zero-sum
game it had been locked in for the past century and a half.
Economic growth resulted in a different
economic structure and better distributional outcomes, supporting a swift and
successful transition to democracy. In turn,
the transition to democracy changed the
role and size of the public sector.
Democratization reinforced social demands for progressive and redistributive
policies—especially for public infrastructure, and education, health, and social
programs. In 1979 more than 70 percent
of Spaniards agreed with the statement
that “the distribution of wealth in this
country is totally unjust.” In 10 years,
social expenditure almost doubled to
reach 80 percent of the European average.
Public expenditure in education steadily
increased from 2 percent of GDP in 1975
to 4.5 percent in 1995. By 2001 almost 50
percent of the population had completed

secondary education—10 times more
than in the mid-1970s. An ambitious public investment program tripled the public
highway network, revamped and expanded
metropolitan transportation, and modernized the railroad system.
Spain’s transition to democracy and the
resulting expansion of its welfare state
shows how a mutually reinforcing package
of policy and institutional choices leading
to greater equity helped underpin the
development and modernization of the
Spanish economy and its integration into
the European Union. It illustrates how
political and economic structures shape the
possibilities for policy choice, a theme of
chapter 6. But it also illustrates that specific
policy choices matter—across social sectors, infrastructure, the workings of markets, and international integration—and
that there can be important complementarities for both equity and dynamic growth,
notably between greater social provisioning
and greater reliance on markets. This takes
us to the issue of practical policy design, the
central theme of part III of this report.

Sources: Synthesized from Boix (2005), with references to
Gunther, Montero, and Botella (2004); North and Thomas
(1973); and Revenga (1991).

Equity, institutions,
and the development process

6

chapter

Product, land, labor, and capital markets are
crucial for the allocation of resources and
development. Market institutions, however,
exist and function in the context of a whole
set of nonmarket and political institutions.
The nature of these other institutions—and
the way they function—are influenced by
inequalities in the political and social realm.
The most obvious of these other institutions are those that define and enforce property rights and contracts. People will not
invest if property rights are not well defined
and enforced, or if they believe that the contracts they write will not be honored or that
courts of law will not be fair. The state must
also provide a whole set of other inputs apart
from social order and fair contract enforcement. These include various types of public
services and regulations. Lying behind wellfunctioning markets are legal systems, judges,
policemen, and, ultimately, social groups and
politicians.
This chapter considers the circumstances
and processes for creating institutions that
promote prosperity. These circumstances are
closely related to the concerns of this report.
In essence, societies that create institutions to
generate sustained prosperity are equitable in
important ways. Because talent and ideas are
widely distributed in the population, it is crucial that the property of all people is secure
and that there is equality before the law for
all, not just for some. Predetermined circumstances should not constrain anyone’s innovation or investment opportunities. This
implies that a good institutional environment
will not block entry into new lines of business
and that the political system will provide
access to services and public goods for all.
Institutions must be equitable.
To take an extreme example, institutions
were severely inequitable in slave societies,

such as Haiti or Barbados in the eighteenth
century. Even though property rights in land
and people were well defined and even well
enforced (although subject to potential slave
rebellions), most people had no property
rights and were thus subject to expropriation
by others, particularly their masters. For 95
percent of society, there were no incentives to
engage in socially desirable activities. A similar, although somewhat less extreme, example
of inequitable institutions is South Africa
under apartheid. Institutions there were good
for the whites but left 80 percent of the population without incentives or opportunities to
engage in economically productive activities.

The distribution of power
and institutional quality:
circles vicious and virtuous
How do societies develop equitable nonmarket institutions? First, there must be
sufficient political equality—equality in
access to the political system and in the distribution of political power, political rights,
and influence.
Poor institutions will emerge and persist
in societies when power is concentrated in
the hands of a narrow group or an elite. Such
an elite may grant property rights to itself, but
the property rights of most citizens will be
unstable. There may be equality before the
law for a particular elite group, but not for the
majority of people. Government policies may
favor such an elite, granting them rents and
monopolies, but most people will be
excluded from entering profitable lines of
business. The education system may invest
heavily in the children of such elites, but most
will be excluded.
Many things determine the distribution of
political power in society—the constitution,
107

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

108

the nature of checks and balances, and the
ability of different groups to solve collective
action problems. But economic inequality
often underpins political inequality. In a society with large inequalities of assets and
incomes, the rich will tend to have more
influence and an advantage in adapting and
distorting institutions to their benefit.
Because the distribution of power,
through its impact on institutions, helps to
determine the distribution of income, the
possibility of vicious and virtuous circles is
clear. A society with greater equality of control over assets and incomes will tend to
have a more equal distribution of political
power. It will therefore tend to have institutions that generate equality of opportunity
for the broad mass of citizens. This will tend
to spread rewards and incomes widely,
thereby reinforcing the initial distribution of
incomes. In contrast, a society with greater
inequality of assets and incomes will tend to
have a less egalitarian distribution of power
and worse institutions, which tend to reproduce the initial conditions.
The evidence in this chapter suggests that
the first type of society will tend to be more
prosperous. We argue that societies prosper-

Figure 6.1 Countries with more secure property rights have higher average incomes
GDP per capita, PPP in 1995 (log)
11
KWT

10

LUX
USA
CHE
NOR
JPN
DNK
CAN
AUS
ISL
AUT
NLD
SWEBEL
SGP
FRA
ITA
FIN
GBR
IRL
NZL
ESP
PR T

QAT

OMN BHS
ISR
MLT SAU GRCBHR
KOR CZE
TTO GAB
HUN
URY
MYS
CHL
RUS
ZAF VEN MEXPOL BRA
TURTHA
BGR
BWA
PAN
TUN PRY CRI COL
IRN
DZA
ROM
SLV
PER
SYR DOM ECU EGY JAM
GTM PHL
IDN
JOR MAR
LKA
PNG
ZWE
GIN
CHN
BOL GUY
HND
CIV
CMR
IND
COG
PAK
NIC
SEN
AGO
VNM
STP
MNG
KEN GHA
BGD
GMB
BFA
SLE
YEM ZMB TGO
MDG
NER
NGA
MOZ
UGA
MWI
GNB
ETH
TZA
ETH
ARG

9
8
HTI

SDN

7

MLI

6

ZAR

5
3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

Average protection against risk of
expropriation, 1985–95
Sources: Political Risk Services, International Country Risk Guide (ICRG) and World Bank database.
Note: The figure shows the relationship between GDP per capita in 1995 and a measure of the security of property
rights, “protection against expropriation risk,” averaged over the period 1985 to 1995. The data on institutions come
from Political Risk Services, a private company that assesses the risk that investments will be expropriated in different
countries. These data, first used by Knack and Keefer (1995) and subsequently by Hall and Jones (1999) and Acemoglu,
Johnson, and Robinson (2001, 2002a, 2004), are imperfect as a measure of the relevant institutions because they pertain
to investments by foreigners only. Even so, they seem in practice to capture how stable property rights are in general.
The findings are robust to using other available measures of related institutions.

ous today are so because they have developed
more egalitarian distributions of political
power, while poor societies often suffer from
unbalanced distributions. We also consider
how some societies made the transition from
one equilibrium to the other.
Because institutions have distributional
effects, conflict arises naturally. One set of
institutions will benefit some people, while
another will benefit different people. Thus,
there will be incentives for people to control
power to create or keep the institutions that
benefit them and to avoid or weaken the
institutions that disadvantage them. If the
groups in conflict are defined along ascriptive
lines, such as ethnicity, then this may induce a
more severe form of conflict than when
groups are defined along other lines, or when
there are cross-cutting cleavages. More polarized conflict seems to be an independent
force leading to bad institutions that can help
to explain the relatively weak performance in
some societies (discussed below in a comparison between Guyana and Mauritius).
Political equality also matters for the quality of public policy. The basic role of the state
is to provide public services. But politicians
have the correct incentives to provide public
services only when they have to appeal to the
broad mass of citizens to attain power. If
they can win power with a small number of
key supporters, or with few votes, they will
tend to be clientelistic and more inclined to
buy votes or make individual exchanges of
patronage for support without providing the
goods and services critical to raising the mass
of people out of poverty.
Some simple patterns in the cross-country
data show that more egalitarian distributions
of political power and income are associated
with sustained and enduring prosperity. Figure 6.1 indicated that more secure property
rights are associated with higher incomes.
Crucially, however, better institutions and
secure property rights are associated with
greater political equality.
Although there is no perfect way of
measuring political equality, protection
against expropriation risk is highly correlated with measures of democracy and
measures of “constraints on the executive”
from the Polity IV database. This second
variable is designed to capture the extent to

Equity, institutions, and the development process

which those who control political power are
constrained or checked by others. The types
of checks and balances and separation of
powers written into the U.S. Constitution
are classic examples of such constraints.
There is a negative correlation between constraints on the executive and the Gini coefficient of income distribution.
The simple correlations suggest complementarities between a relatively egalitarian
distribution of political power, good institutions, and prosperity, and a relatively egalitarian distribution of economic resources.
The correlations are consistent with many
different causal stories, but recent research
suggests that one can tell a causal story
about this data along exactly the lines we are
suggesting, which the rest of this chapter
discusses. The different evolutions of banking systems in Mexico and the United States
in the nineteenth century provide a good
example of the sort of historic argument we
rely on (box 6.1).

Institutions and political
inequality matter for
development: historical evidence
Figure 6.1 showed the relationship between
security of property and prosperity for the
whole world, but to interpret this causally we
need to find a source of variation in institutions. Doing this is not easy, but Acemoglu,
Johnson, and Robinson (2001) provide a
partial answer. They show that the same
basic pattern holds for a smaller sample of
countries—those colonized by Europeans
after 1492. Indeed, colonization of much of
the world by Europeans provides something
of a large natural experiment.
Beginning in the early fifteenth century
and massively intensifying after 1492, Europeans conquered many other nations. Colonization transformed the institutions in
many diverse lands conquered or controlled
by Europeans. Most important, Europeans
created very different sets of institutions in
different parts of their global empire, as
exemplified most sharply by the contrast
between the institutions in the northeast of
America and those in the plantation societies
of the Caribbean. This experience persuasively establishes the central role of institu-

BOX 6.1

109

Banking in the nineteenth century,
Mexico and the United States

Much recent work on growth and development has focused on financial and capital
markets. A central issue is to understand
why financial systems differ. For example,
studies of the development of banking in
the United States in the nineteenth century
demonstrate a rapid expansion of financial
intermediation, which most scholars see as
a crucial facilitator of the economy’s rapid
growth and industrialization. Haber (2001)
investigated the development of banks in
the nineteenth century in Mexico and the
United States. He shows that “Mexico had a
series of segmented monopolies that were
awarded to a group of insiders” (24). In 1910
“the United States had roughly 25,000
banks and a highly competitive market
structure; Mexico had 42 banks, two of
which controlled 60 percent of total banking assets, and virtually none of which actually competed with another bank.”
Why this huge difference? The relevant
technology was certainly widely available,
and it is difficult to see why the various
types of moral hazard or adverse selection
connected with financial intermediation
should have limited the expansion of banks
in Mexico but not the United States. Indeed,
Haber shows when the U.S. Constitution
was put into effect in 1789, the structure of
U.S. banking looked remarkably like that
arising later in Mexico. State governments,
stripped of revenues by the Constitution,
started banks as a way to generate tax revenues and restricted entry to generate
rents.Yet this system did not last because
states began competing among themselves
for investment and migrants. As Haber
(2001) puts it,
The pressure to hold population and business in
the state was reinforced by a second, related, factor: the broadening of the suffrage. By the 1840s,
most states had dropped all property and literacy
requirements, and by 1850 virtually all states . . .

had done so.The broadening of the suffrage, however, served to undermine the political coalitions
that supported restrictions on the number of bank
charters.That is, it created a second source of political competition—competition within states over
who would hold office and the policies they would
enact (10).

The situation was very different in Mexico. After 50 years of endemic political instability, the country became unified under the
highly centralized 40-year dictatorship of
Porfirio Díaz until the revolution in 1910.
In Haber’s argument, political
institutions in the United States allocated
political power to people who wanted
access to credit and loans. As a result, they
forced state governments to allow free
competitive entry into banking. In Mexico,
political institutions were very different.
There were no competing federal states,
and suffrage was highly restrictive. As a
result, the central government granted
monopoly rights to banks, which restricted
credit to maximize profits.The granting of
monopolies turned out to be a rational way
for the government to raise revenue and
redistribute rents to political supporters
(North 1981).
Haber (2001) documents that market
regulation was not aimed at solving market
failures, and it is precisely during this period
that the huge economic gap between the
United States and Mexico opened (on
which see Coatsworth 1993, Engerman and
Sokoloff 1997). Haber and Maurer 2004
examined in detail how the structure of
banking influenced the Mexican textile
industry between 1880 and 1913.They
show that only firms with personal contacts
with banks were able to get loans and that
such firms were less efficient. Even though
economic efficiency was hurt by
regulations, those with political power were
able to sustain them.

tions in development. It also provides fairly
clear-cut evidence to support our conjectures
about the joint evolution of prosperity and
political and economic equality.

Colonial origins of contemporary
institutions
Acemoglu, Johnson, and Robinson, building
on the research of Engerman and Sokoloff
(1997), explain that Europeans created good
institutions in some colonies, particularly the
United States, Canada, and Australasia (what

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

110

Crosby (1986) calls the neo-Europes), and bad
ones in others (particularly in Latin America
and Sub-Saharan Africa). These institutions
had a strong tendency to persist and thus,
today, generate the results seen in figure 6.1.
Why did different institutions develop in
different European colonies? The simplest
answer is that Europeans shaped the institutions in various colonies to benefit themselves.
And because conditions and endowments differed among colonies, Europeans consciously created different institutions. There
are several important empirical regularities
connecting initial conditions to current outcomes. Of particular importance are initial
population density, the disease environFigure 6.2 Low population density in 1500 is associated with a lower risk of expropriation today
Average protection against risk of expropriation, 1985–95
10

USA

CAN

NZL

SGP

AUS

9
8

BRA
BWA

7

URA

VEN
PR Y
ZAF

ARG

6

GUY

5
4
3
–4

GMB
MYS
GAB
BHS
IDN
MEX
COL TTO
JAM
PNG
MAR
CIV
CRI
MWI
TGO
ZMB MOZ TZA
GIN
DZA
TUN
CMR ECU
GHA VNM
DOM
KEN SEN
LKA
ZWE
PAN
SLE
MMR
PER
BOL
NGA
PHL
AGO HND
LBY
NIC GTM
NER SLV
COG
GNB
UGA
MDG
BFA
MLI
SDN
HTI
ZAR

IND

CHL

MLT
EGY
PAK

BGD

SOM

–3

–2

–1
0
1
2
Population density in 1500 (log)

3

4

5

Source: Political Risk Services, International Country Risk Guide (ICRG) and Acemoglu, Johnson, and Robinson (2002).

Figure 6.3 Worse environments for European settlers are associated with worse institutions today
Average protection against risk of expropriation, 1985–95
10

NZL
AUS

USA
CAN
SGP

9
IND
MYS

8

MLT
ZAF

7
6
5

GMB

BRA
CHL BHS
MEXTTO
COL VEN
MAR
URY
CRI
PRY
EGY
ECU
TUN ARGDZA
PAK
LKA
GUY
PER
MMR
BOL
HND
GTM BGD
SLV

CIV
TGO

JAM
TZA
CMR

VNM
DOM
SEN
KEN PAN

GIN
GHA
SLE
NGA

AGO

NIC
GNB

NER
COG
BFA
UGA

MDG

SDN

4
3

GAB

IDN
PNG

HTI

2

3

4

MLI

ZAR

5
Settler mortality (log)

6

7

8

Source: Political Risk Services, International Country Risk Guide (ICRG) and Acemoglu, Johnson, and Robinson (2002).

ment, and the factor endowments that influenced economic organization.1 There is a
strong inverse relationship between population density in 1500 and current protection
against expropriation risk for former European colonies (figure 6.2). And colonies with
disease environments that were worse for
European settlers also have worse institutions today (figure 6.3).
Other aspects of factor endowments are
more difficult to measure directly, but Engerman and Sokoloff (1997) point out that
where the climate and soils were suitable for
crops such as sugarcane—which could be
grown on large plantations with slave labor,
such as northeastern Brazil—much worse
institutions and more skewed distributions of
political power evolved than in climates
where wheat or other nonplantation crops
could be grown.
Why did Europeans introduce better
institutions in previously relatively unsettled and healthy areas than in previously
densely settled and unhealthy areas? How
did factor endowments influence institutions? Europeans were more likely to introduce or maintain bad institutions where
there were a lot of resources and rents to
extract—gold, silver, and, most important,
people to provide the labor. In places with a
large indigenous population, Europeans
could exploit the population through taxes,
tributes, or employment as forced labor in
mines or plantations. And where plantation
crops could be profitably grown, slavebased societies emerged. These types of
colonization were incompatible with institutions providing economic or civil rights or
equality of opportunity to the majority of
the population. So, a more developed civilization with a denser population structure,
and particular climatic and agricultural conditions, made it more profitable for the
Europeans to introduce bad institutions.
In contrast, in places with little to extract,
where plantation agriculture was not profitable, and in sparsely settled places where
the Europeans became the majority of the
population, it was in their interests to introduce much better institutions. In addition,
the disease environments differed markedly
among the colonies, with obvious consequences for the attractiveness of European

Equity, institutions, and the development process

settlement. When Europeans settled, they
established institutions under which they
themselves had to live.
This research suggests that most of the
gap in per capita income between rich and
poor countries today is due to differences in
institutions. More precisely, if one takes two
typical countries—in the sense that they
both lie on the regression line—with high
and low expropriation risk, such as Nigeria
and Chile, almost the entire difference in
income per capita between them can be
explained by the differences in the historically shaped measure of the security of
property rights.2 The research also presented regression evidence showing that
once the effect of institutions on GDP per
capita is properly controlled for, geographic
variables—such as latitude, whether or not
a country is landlocked, the current disease
environment—have no explanatory power
for current prosperity.
Different types of societies thus developed in different colonies with radically
different implications for subsequent development. Crucially, the societies that emerged
in the neo-Europes had distributions of economic resources and political power that
were much broader. And they placed constraints on the exercise of political power
and the ability of elites to adopt policies
favorable to themselves but deleterious for
society (figure 6.4).

Development and inequality
in the Americas: A case study
in colonial origins
The colonization of Latin America began
with the discovery of the “Indies” by Columbus in 1492, the assault on Mexico by Cortés
after 1519, and the conquest of Peru by Pizzaro after 1532. From the beginning, the
Spanish were interested in the extraction of
gold and silver, and later in taking tribute
and raising taxes. The colonial societies that
emerged were authoritarian, based on the
political power of a small Spanish elite who
created a set of institutions to extract wealth
from the indigenous population.
After Pizzaro conquered Peru, he imposed
institutions to extract rents from the newly
conquered Indians. The main such institutions were the encomienda (which gave Span-

111

Figure 6.4 A worse environment for settlers is associated with fewer constraints on the
executive at independence
Constraint on the executive at independence
1.0

AUS
NZL

USA

CAN
ZAF

MUS

IND

PAK

FJI

BRA

0.8

BOLURY
ECU CRI TTO
JAM
CHL
COL
PRY

ARG
LKA

0.6

MYS
GUY

PNG

NIC
PAN

VEN

MDG

DOM

HND
SLV
BGD
MEX
GTM

BEN
MLI

HTI
NER
CAF

PER

0.4

TUN
MMR

SGP

EGY
MAR

VNM

DZA

0.2

0.0

GNB
KENSEN
LAO
IDN

DJI
AFG
SDN

2

3

4

COG
MRT
AGO
TZA

GHA
GMB

UGA

GIN

CMR
BDI BFA
TCD
RWA

SLE

CIV
TGO
NGA

ZAR

5
Settler mortality (log)

6

7

8

Source: Acemoglu, Johnson, and Robinson (2002a). The analysis indicates that that the same factors that gave rise to
good institutions gave rise to a more egalitarian distribution of power. Without some measure of voice, it is impossible
for a person’s property rights to be guaranteed or for them to have real access to the legal system to make sure that
contracts are honored. A more egalitarian distribution of political power is also associated with a more egalitarian distribution of economic resources. To get a better understanding of the mechanisms, we need to look further into historical analysis.

ish conquistadors the right to Amerindian
labor),3 the mita (a system of forced labor
used in the mines), and the repartimiento (the
forced sale of goods to Indians, typically at
highly inflated prices). Pizzaro created 480
encomenderos, under whose care the entire
Indian population was placed. In other
colonies the situation was similar. For
instance, in the territory of modern Colombia, there were about 900 encomenderos.4
The encomienda did not last for long in
all parts of the empire because the Spanish
Crown attempted to curtail it by the end of
the sixteenth century. But the mita (from
the Quechua word mit’a, meaning “turn”)
became a central institution until independence, and forced labor lasted far
beyond this in most of Latin America (until
1945 in Guatemala). The effects of the
encomienda also persisted because the concentration of political power that it was
associated with led to the emergence of
large landed estates.5 The feasibility and
attraction of this type of economic system
was determined by the higher population
densities of indigenous people in many
parts of the Spanish empire and the extent
to which such societies had already developed into “complex societies.”6
Other institutions were designed to reinforce this system. For instance, indigenous

112

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

people were not allowed to give testimony
in some cases, and in others the testimony
of 10 indigenous people was equal to that of
1 Spaniard.7 Although indigenous people
did use the legal system to challenge aspects
of colonial rule, they could not alter the
main parameters of the system. In addition,
the Spanish Crown created a complex web
of mercantilistic policies and monopolies
from salt to gunpowder, from tobacco to
alcohol and playing cards, to raise revenues
for the state.
Spanish colonies that had small populations of Amerindians, such as Costa Rica,
Argentina, or Uruguay, seem to have followed different paths of institutional development. The sharp contrasts along many
institutional dimensions between Costa
Rica and Guatemala (where population
density was greater) have been much studied. Although the formal political institutions of the Spanish empire were the same
everywhere, the way they functioned
depended on the local conditions.8
The institutions that emerged in the
main Spanish colonies greatly benefited the
Spanish crown and the Spanish settler elite,
but they did not promote prosperity in
Latin America. Most of the population had
no property rights, nor incentives to enter
socially desirable occupations or to invest.
Europeans developed coercive regimes
monopolizing military and political power
and respecting few constraints on their
power (unless imposed by the mother
country in Europe).9
In North America, the initial attempts at
colonization were also based on economic
motives. British colonies were founded by
such entities as the Virginia Company and
the Providence Island Company with the aim
of profits. The model was not so different
from that of the Spanish or Portuguese (a system that other British colonizing entities,
such as the East India Company, used to great
effect). Yet these companies made no money.
Indeed, both the Virginia Company and the
Providence Island Company went bankrupt.
Because of the absence of a large indigenous
population and complex societies, a colonial
model involving the exploitation of indigenous labor and tribute systems was simply
not feasible in these places.

Historical accounts show that initial conditions had a large impact on the institutions
that the settlers built. Because there was low
population density and no way to extract
resources from indigenous peoples, early
commercial developments had to import
British labor. And, relative to much of the
colonial world, the disease environment was
benign, stimulating settlement. Indeed, the
Pilgrim fathers decided to migrate to the
United States rather than Guyana because of
the high mortality rates in Guyana.10 But
these same conditions made it impossible to
profitably exploit labor, whose bargaining
power forced elites to extend political rights
and create equal access to land and the law.
These forces were reinforced by the fact that
plantation agriculture and slavery were not
profitable, at least in the northern United
States and Canada.
These colonies ultimately provided access to land to a broad cross-section of society and the legal system became fairly
impartial, ensuring secure property rights
for smallholders and potential investors.
The new institutions made investment possible through financial development and
secure contracting and business relationships. Underpinning these institutions were
fairly representative political institutions
and a fairly egalitarian distribution of
resources. As in Latin America, there was a
synergy between economic and political
institutions, but this time it was virtuous,
not vicious. Institutions giving and protecting property rights for the mass of people
and institutions of democratic politics
complemented each other, ensuring an
environment conducive to investment and
economic progress.
Representative political institutions in
Virginia were a direct result of the authorities realizing that, because of the different
conditions, the colonization strategy that
worked in Peru would not work in the
United States. Virginia had many competing
and fragmented tribes, not a large central
tribal empire. It had no gold or silver, and
the Indians, not used to paying tribute or
engaging in forced labor, would not work.
So, the settlers of Jamestown starved.11 In
response to these early failures, the Virginia
Company tried various incentive schemes,

Equity, institutions, and the development process

BOX 6.2

113

Growth with poor institutions does not last

The elite had good investment opportunities in
Argentina in the golden age from the 1870s to
the 1920s, in Czarist Russia in the decades leading up to World War I, in Colombia in the half
century after 1900, and in the Côte d’Ivoire for
the first two decades after independence (Widner 1993). Such situations are rarely sustainable,
for three reasons. First, the possibilities for sustained growth are, by definition, limited because
institutions exclude the majority of the population from effectively investing. Second, in the
rare situations in which elites manage to create
arrangements so that they can benefit directly
from growth without the need to create good
institutions more generally, such arrangements
tend to be fragile, vulnerable to shocks or crises.
Third, bad institutions create power struggles
that undermine growth, because they generate
large rents for those who control power.
Consider the growth of Argentina in the half
century before 1930. After its independence
from Spain in 1816, Argentina plunged into 50
years of civil wars and conflicts over control of
the country, mainly clashes between those in
control of Buenos Aires and the littoral and
those in the interior.These conflicts abated after
the 1853 constitution and the presidency of Bartolomé Mitre with a compromise between the
Pampas and the interior. Pampean mercantile
and agrarian interests would be allowed to cre-

ate institutions to take advantage of the huge
economic opportunities emerging on world
markets, but the structure of the political rules,
such as their overrepresentation in national
political institutions, guaranteed the interior
provinces a large slice of the benefits (Samuels
and Snyder 2001).
Although the majority was excluded from
the political system, the economy boomed with
the property rights of the Pampean elite guaranteed. But the huge rents created by this system began to cause conflict. In the 1890s, the
Radical Party emerged under Hipólito Yrigoyen,
and after a series of revolts it was incorporated
into the political system by the democratizing
impact of the Sáenz Peña Law in 1912.
Although Yrigoyen was elected president in
1916, the traditional interests were confident
that they could keep control of the polity and
the economy.They were mistaken. Significant
changes in the social structure had occurred,
with rapid immigration from Europe, induced by
economic success, and the associated urbanization.The vote share of the Conservatives
declined rapidly and the prospect of a Radical
Party majority was a key factor behind the coup
of 1930. Smith (1978) notes “this situation contrasts sharply with that in Sweden and Great
Britain . . . where traditional elites continued to
dominate systems after the extension of

including a highly punitive, almost penal,
effort to make money. Such efforts quickly
collapsed, however, and by 1619 the Company had created an unusually representative set of institutions for that era: a general
assembly with adult male suffrage.
The early history of the United States
shows a possible path to good institutions.
Early attempts to create an oligarchic society with close control of labor quickly
collapsed. What emerged instead was a
relatively egalitarian society, with representative institutions giving even the poorest
colonists access to the law and some political representation. This laid the basis for
economic and social institutions that
underpinned the takeoff of the United
States in the nineteenth century and its
divergence from the fortunes of much of
Latin America. Some countries with weak
and unequal institutions have experienced
periods of rapid growth, but these have
proved to be unsustainable over the long
term (box 6.2).

suffrage” (21). From this point onward political
conflicts intensified, with a stream of coups and
redemocratizations that lasted until 1983.
Though among the richest countries in the
world in the 1920s, Argentina gradually slid back
to being a developing country.
Argentina shows that, even with poor institutions for political inclusion and conflict management, growth is possible if elites have good
investment opportunities and can manage to
forge compromises. But the booms eventually
unravel. Even when elites, such as the agriculturalists of the Argentine Pampas, face very
good investment opportunities, growth cannot
be sustained forever by agricultural export
booms. Moreover, the rents created by bad
institutions create conflict without fundamental balances of power in society. This meant that
democracy in Argentina after 1912 was unstable. The unchecked power of President
Yrigoyen in the 1920s induced a coup in 1930,
as did that of Perón in the 1940s and in 1955
and again in 1976 after his return from exile.
Although temporary political solutions can
sometimes ease conflict for a while, as they did
in Argentina after 1853, in the absence of
broader institutional inclusion, conflict
ultimately reemerges, undermining the incentives to investment.

Institutions and political
inequality matter
for development:
contemporary evidence
Our review of comparative history supports
two conclusions. First, institutions, especially those that underpin property rights
for all and broad-based investment, have a
causative influence on long-run development processes. And second, greater political equality can lay the basis for better
economic institutions. By greater political
equality, we mean, in particular, checks on
the predatory behavior of political and economic elites, and the political need for the
state to be responsive to middle and poorer
population groups. The basis for greater
political equalities is often associated with
underlying economic structures, although
causation can run both ways.
How does this perspective relate to the
variety of contemporary development experiences? It is consistent with the perspective

114

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

that institutions and governance are central
to a wide variety of development performance, from growth to service delivery.12
While debate continues, an important thrust
of this research has been to support the view
that causation runs, at least in part, from better institutions to higher incomes, rather
than the other way.13 What is additional to
this (ongoing) debate is the second part of
the argument—that the nature and management of inequalities in power shapes the formation of institutions. Some cross-country
analysis is suggestive: Rodrik (1999a) argues
that the capacity of societies to manage
adverse shocks—itself a crucial determinant
of growth—depends on the depth of latent
social conflict and the strength of conflict
management mechanisms.
To illustrate the argument, we continue
to draw on comparative development experiences. We first look at East Asia, and then
look at agricultural pricing polices in
Africa. We then examine in greater depth
the comparative experience of Mauritius
and Guyana, countries that started with
similar initial conditions, but then followed
radically different development paths. This
is also related to different experiences in
managing polarization, which can be contributory factors for violent social conflict.

Shared growth in East Asia:
the Republic of Korea, Taiwan
(China), and Indonesia
Elites may be forced by threats of social disorder to promote the prosperity of most citizens. Indeed, societies that have a political
necessity to appeal to or appease middle and
lower groups (initially the peasantry) can
grow substantially in the short run. Longrun prosperity, however, requires institutionalized, rather than contingent checks and
balances on elite power and capacities to
adjust to changing circumstances. The
response of elites to social disturbances
sometimes leads to solutions that permanently change the political equilibrium in a
beneficial way, as may have happened with
the agrarian reforms in the Republic of
Korea and Taiwan, China, in the late 1940s
and early 1950s. More often, however, the
transitory ability of citizens to act collectively
dissipates without elites having to propose

anything more than a transitory solution, as
may have been the case in Indonesia under
the New Order.
The rapid economic development of the
Republic of Korea after the mid-1960s was
not due to a set of institutions put in place
through a domestic balance of political
power. Instead, as in Indonesia under the
New Order regime, a precarious geopolitical
situation, particularly after the rundown of
U.S. aid in the early 1960s, induced the Park
regime to create a pro-growth environment.14 This at least led to a contingent commitment to good institutions, as it did under
an authoritarian regime in Taiwan, China,
where a fairly egalitarian distribution of
assets and incomes, perhaps eased the transition in the 1990s toward democracy, a
greater equality of political influence, and
good institutions. As in much of East Asia,
there was a political necessity to deliver
income growth and services to the peasantry.
In Indonesia, Suharto’s New Order government also recognized that economic
growth was necessary to keep the regime in
power and that, to achieve this, good economic policies had to be in place. This
induced Suharto to delegate macroeconomic
policy to technocrats and to respond to the
oil booms wisely. It also led him to intervene
to attempt to control corruption and excesses
that would put in jeopardy the underpinnings of the regime.15
Yet this constraint, real though it was, at
least in the 1960s and 1970s, is only part of
the story about Indonesian growth. Suharto
managed to create a system that, while not
introducing good institutions, induced
investments and growth from which the
regime could benefit. One of the secrets
behind this appears to have been the role of
Sino-Indonesian businessmen, the cukong
entrepreneurs. Many firms and businesses
were controlled by Indonesians of Chinese
origin who were very marginal politically.
Suharto granted such businessmen monopoly rights and placed members of the military and his supporters on their boards of
directors.16 Rock (2003) argues, “There is
little doubt that the . . . distortions in New
Order microeconomic policies thwarted
competition, rewarded cronies, and encouraged substantial investment in uneco-

Equity, institutions, and the development process

nomic projects” (10). Yet they also generated wealth, economic growth, and rents
for the regime. It was precisely the political
marginality of the cukong entrepreneurs
that made them an attractive business partner for the regime.
The economic success of Indonesia after
1966 elevated it into the class of an Asian
“miracle economy.”17 The East Asia financial
crisis in 1997, however, exposed and exacerbated Indonesia’s institutional weaknesses,
plummeting the country into an economic
and political crisis from which it is only now
beginning to recover, doing so on the basis of
a new foundation of decentralization and
democracy, which have progressively institutionalized greater relationships of accountability between citizens and state. (See focus 4
on Indonesia for a further discussion of the
relationship between social and political context and policy choices.)

Agricultural pricing policies
in Africa
Another important example illustrating the
connections between institutions, the distribution of political power and growth
comes from the seminal studies of price
regulation prices in agricultural markets in
Africa by Robert Bates.18 Bates (1981)
demonstrated that poor agricultural performance in Ghana, Nigeria, and Zambia
was due to government-controlled marketing boards systematically paying farmers
prices much below world levels. The marketing board surpluses were given to the
government as a form of taxation. As a
result of this pernicious taxation, reaching
up to 70 percent of the value of the crop in
Ghana in the 1970s, investment in agriculture collapsed, as did the output of cocoa
and other crops. In poor countries with a
comparative advantage in agriculture, this
meant negative rates of economic growth.
Why were resources extracted in this way?
Although part of the motivation was to promote industrialization, the main one was to
generate resources that could be either expropriated or redistributed to maintain power.
As Bates (1981) put it,
governments face a dilemma: urban unrest,
which they cannot successfully eradicate

through co-optation or repression, poses a
serious challenge to their interests . . . Their
response has been to try to appease urban
interests not by offering higher money wages
but by advocating policies aimed at reducing
the cost of living, and in particular the cost of
food. Agricultural policy thus becomes a byproduct of political relations between governments and urban constituents (33).

In contrast to the situation in Ghana,
Nigeria, and Zambia, Bates (1981), Bates
(1989) showed that agricultural policy in
Kenya over this period was much more profarmer. The difference was due to who controlled the marketing board. In Kenya, farmers were not smallholders, as they were in
Ghana, Nigeria, and Zambia, and concentrated landownership made it much easier
to act collectively. Moreover, farming was
important in the Kikuyu areas, an ethnic
group closely related to the ruling political
party, the Kenya African National Union
(KANU), under Jomo Kenyatta.19 Farmers
in Kenya therefore formed a powerful lobby
and were able to guarantee themselves high
prices. Even though the government of
Kenya engaged in land reform after independence, Bates (1981) argued that—
80 percent of the former white highlands were
left intact and . . . the government took elaborate measures to preserve the integrity of the
large-scale farms . . . [which] readily combine
in defense of their interests. One of the most
important collective efforts is the Kenya
National Farmer’s Union (KNFU) . . . The
organization . . . is dominated by the largescale farmers . . . [but] it can be argued that
the KNFU helps to create a framework of
public policies that provides an economic
environment favorable to all farmers (93–4).

Bates concluded that in Kenya “large farmers . . . have secured public policies that are
highly favorable by comparison to those in
other nations” (95).
Bates demonstrated why economic policies were better in Kenya than Ghana in the
1960s and 1970s, but this advantage did not
survive the coming to power of Daniel arap
Moi in Kenya.20 The change in the ethnic
basis of the regime, from Kikuyu to Kalenjin,
undermined the coalition that had supported good agricultural policies, because
the export farmers were not only large, but

115

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

116

Figure 6.5 Constraints on the executive
are greater in Mauritius than in Guyana
Constraint on the executive
1.0

Mauritius

0.8
0.6

The contrasting experience
of Mauritius and Guyana

Guyana

0.4
0.2
0.0
1970

1980

1990

2000

Source: Polity IV data set, downloaded from InterUniversity Consortium for Political and Social
Research. Variable described in Gurr (1997).

Figure 6.6 GDP per capita is rising in
Mauritius, not in Guyana
GDP per capita (log)
9.5
Mauritius
9.0
8.5
Guyana

8.0
7.5
1970

1980

Source: World Bank (2005g).

also predominantly Kikuyu. As a result, economic performance declined precipitously
in the 1980s and 1990s. The balance of
power that sustained good policies in the
1970s did not endure.

1990

2000

Mauritius and Guyana, in the 1960s, were
both poor societies dominated by the production and export of sugarcane. They had
similar histories, factor endowments, social
and political cleavages, and institutions. If
anything, Guyana, although slightly poorer,
had better prospects, because of its proximity to the large U.S. market. Yet Mauritius
has become one of the most dynamic and
successful (and equal) developing countries,
industrializing and maintaining competitive
democratic politics. Guyana slumped into
dictatorship and poverty.
The divergence between Mauritius and
Guyana since independence is a fascinating
example of economic and political divergence in apparently similar societies (figures 6.5 and 6.6).
What can explain this? Both countries
have similar histories. Mauritius was taken
from the French and Guyana from the Dutch
during the Napoleonic wars.21 In the nineteenth century both developed sugarcane
economies and, after the abolition of slavery
in the British Empire in 1834, imported large
numbers of indentured laborers from India.
Both have a similar population structure,
with Indo-Guyanese and Indo-Mauritians
forming the majority of the population with
significant minorities of people of African,
European, and Chinese descent.
After World War II, both colonies were
moved by the British toward independence
with early elections for democratic legislative
assemblies dominated by pro-independence
political parties led by Seewoosagur Ramgoolam in Mauritius and Cheddi Jagan in
Guyana. Both groups used extensive socialist
rhetoric and proposed land reforms and
fairly radical policies. Many of the political
struggles with British administrators over
postindependence institutions, such as the
form of the electoral system, were fought over
similar issues. As independence arrived however, political forces re-formed into a situa-

tion in which parties led by Indo-Mauritians
and Indo-Guyanese faced a coalition of parties supported by the non-Indian population,
led by Gaetan Duval in Mauritius and Forbes
Burnham in Guyana. Yet, at independence,
politics and economics diverged.
The Mauritian Labour Party won power
initially and quickly abandoned its radical
policies—by the early 1970s, investment in
the export processing zone had begun. The
political hegemony of the Labour Party was
quickly contested by a strong socialist party,
the MMM (Mouvement Militant Mauricien)
led by Paul Berenger and Dev Virahsawmy. In
response, the Labour Party entered a coalition with Duval and his PMSD (Parti
Mauricien Social Democrate) and the previous opposition groups. The Labour Party
drew back from repressing the new political
forces, allowed the MMM to contest the 1976
election, and instead adopted social policies,
such as the provision of universal secondary
education, to improve its popularity. It also
quickly dropped populist macroeconomic
policies and, in the late 1970s, implemented a
serious stabilization program under the IMF.
The final test of Mauritian institutions was
the election of an MMM government for the
first time in 1982. Once in power, the MMM
abandoned its more radical policies, and
when the broad political consensus for good
institutions became clear, the export processing zone boomed.
The contrast with Guyana is stark. The
first election on the eve of independence was
won by Burnham and his People’s National
Party in a coalition against Jagan’s People’s
Progressive Party. Burnham maintained
power by increasingly fraudulent means,
finally changing the constitution in 1980 to
make himself executive president. He assassinated opponents, most famously the radical
economist and political activist Walter Rodney in 1980. The economic policies of Burnham’s regime were a disaster. He expropriated
the sugar plantations, creating highly inefficient state industries, and he aggressively
promoted his party members through
patronage, particularly in the civil service. The
implied or actual threat to property and person led to a huge diaspora of Indo-Guyanese
from the country, including most of the professional and middle-class people. Only in the

Equity, institutions, and the development process

1990s did a democratized Guyana begin to
slowly recover from this legacy. But the ethnic
divide endures, and the country continues to
suffer from weak governance, a lack of political transparency, and ethnic tensions that
hamper economic and social development.
What can explain such divergent outcomes
in such apparently similar circumstances? In
Guyana, there were fewer constraints on the
use of power, and political conflict was
more polarized, defined solely along ethnic
lines. And although both countries started
independence as democracies, what the
majority could do (or wanted to do) to the
minority was limited in Mauritius, but not
in Guyana.
In Mauritius, the British colonial state
faced a powerful and homogeneous French
planter class that did not leave the island
after Mauritius was annexed to Britain in
1812. In the 1870s, when Britain was
reducing the autonomy of colonial administrations, it was forced to create a legislative assembly. Although this was initially
dominated by the planters, by the turn of
the twentieth century the first Indo-Mauritians were elected. This was a clear sign
that the greater political autonomy of the
island was allowing for a more open society with greater upward mobility of former indentured laborers. The power of the
colonial state was checked, evident in the
fact that Mauritian independence leaders
were able in the 1960s to negotiate postindependence institutions closer to the ones
they wanted.
This juxtaposition of different local
interests and the weakening of the legacy of
the colonial state gave rise to a more balanced distribution of political power in
Mauritius. And from this situation more
fluid interests emerged. Though ethnic
identities were certainly important in politics, so were different cleavages, as is clear
from the development of the MMM into a
powerful political force and the coalition of
Ramgoolam and Duval in the 1970s. Politics became much less polarized than they
might have been.
In Guyana, there was no indigenous
planter class to check the power of the colonial state. After the departure of the Dutch,
the plantations came to be owned by absen-

tee British companies. The authoritarian
tendencies of the colonial state were reinforced by British military intervention, promoted in 1953 by the United States, to
remove Jagan from power because of his
socialist tendencies. Guyanese politicians,
unlike those in Mauritius, had far less ability to get what they wanted from the colonial state. This meant that there were fewer
indigenous checks on the exercise of power,
and unfettered use of political power was
the norm. The best example here is the electoral system. Britain imposed a proportional representation system on Guyana
because it was afraid that the overrepresentation of large parties inherent in majoritarian systems would allow Jagan to win an
absolute majority in the 1964 election (the
People’s Progressive Party won 42.6 percent
of the vote in the 1961 election). This system facilitated Burnham’s rise to power.
Although the British tried to do the same
thing in Mauritius, political elites there held
out and forced a compromise: a system with
relatively large electoral districts with the
three politicians who got the most votes
being elected and with the eight best “losers”
from the entire country being elected to parliament. This system maintained elements
of the majoritarian institutions that Mauritian leaders believed were essential to maintaining the country’s governability. Politics
in Guyana became completely defined along
ethnic lines. This occurred because the previous evolution of the economy, and the
dominant power of colonial interests, left
little room for the varied interests that
emerged in Mauritius. While Guyana has
not suffered outright social conflict, high
levels of polarization and weak conflict
management institutions can be contributory factors to civil wars (box 6.3).

Implications
In Mauritius, property rights are secure and
the country has experienced open democratic politics. There has been intensive
investment in education and free access into
profitable investment opportunities, illustrated most clearly by the export processing
zone. In Guyana, the opposite was true in the
1970s and 1980s. The puzzle is why institutions have been so good in one case and so

117

118

BOX 6.3

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Polarization, conflict, and growth

Researchers have long recognized that
deep social divisions make it harder to
implement policies that benefit all. Getting
a more precise measure of the nature and
extent of such divisions, however, has
proved problematic. For much of the
1990s, scholars used a measure known as
“ethno-linguistic fractionalization”—first
compiled by Russian social scientists in the
1960s—to show that economic growth
was slower, controlling for other factors, in
societies where there was a low probability
that two citizens drawn randomly from a
population group were of the same ethnic
group. Africa’s “growth tragedy” was, in
part, blamed on its high level of “fractionalization” (Easterly and Levine 1997).
More recent work has sought to refine
measures of social diversity by focusing
instead on polarization, or the extent to
which a small number of influential groups
dominate a society, thereby providing a
more theoretically informed basis for
explaining the relationship between diver-

sity and conflict, and through this channel,
economic growth (Esteban and Ray 1994).
By this measure, a country with three
groups that comprise, respectively, 49 percent, 49 percent and 2 percent of the population will be more polarized than a counterpart country where those same groups
comprise 33 percent, 33 percent, and 34
percent of the population.The polarization
measure is a far more robust predictor of
civil conflict than either measures of the
inequality of individual incomes or
fragmentation.This statistical association is
illustrated by the fact that, by this measure,
9 of the 10 most polarized societies in the
world have experienced major civil conflict
in the past few decades, including Eritrea,
Guatemala, Nigeria, Sierra Leone, and Bosnia
and Herzegovina (García-Montalvo and
Reynal-Querol forthcoming).This is only one
influence on conflict, of course, and other
work has emphasized the role of resource
dependence and state capacities (see World
Bank 2003h).

bad in the other, given such apparently similar histories and circumstances.
But the two cases make sense in more
detail. The colonial history of Mauritius
diverged from Guyana’s in significant ways
that allowed the development of a stronger
domestic political society. Mauritius resisted the colonial state more effectively and,
ultimately, generated a more egalitarian
distribution of political power and a less
polarized structure of political conflict. In
Guyana, however, there was no powerful
domestic interest group that had a vested
interest in opposing the colonial state or that
was able to block the state from expropriating land and other assets after independence. The use of power was unconstrained,
and politics were highly polarized along
ethnic lines.
Indonesia shows that growth is possible
even with underlying bad institutions when
elites can credibly make a contingent commitment to improve institutions and when
they manage to forge mechanisms that indirectly benefit from encouraging the investment opportunities of others. The acceleration of growth after 1966, and particularly
the pro-poor aspect of growth, was clearly
driven by the threat of communism and

rural social disorder. The spillover from the
conflicts of 1965 and 1966 was a redistribution of power toward the rural sector, with
sustained, inclusive growth necessary for
the political survival of the regime.
Yet the redistribution of power in
Indonesia was not institutionalized, unlike
what occurred in the Republic of Korea, for
example. Moreover, it did not force the New
Order Regime to improve institutions outside the rural and education sectors,
although the connection between promoting economic development and social order
may well have helped the government to
sustain its relationship with the cukong
entrepreneurs. As the constraints on economic policies of the New Order Regime
relaxed in the 1990s, it appears to have been
more difficult to avoid a massive and debilitating upsurge in corruption and rent-seeking. Moreover, the collusive agreement that
the state forged with the Sino-Indonesian
entrepreneurs appears to have been very
fragile. It rested on shared expectations
about the longevity of the relationship,
expectations that clearly deteriorated with
Suharto’s failing health and could not survive the financial crisis in 1997.22

Transitions to more equitable
institutions
So far we have examined cases illustrating
the mechanisms that create good institutions and sustain prosperity. They involve
institutions that allow for greater equality of
opportunity, and behind such a set of institutions lies a relative balance of economic
resources and political power. Such institutions have emerged in some societies but not
others. Although systems of institutions
often tend to reinforce one another and persist for long periods, they also change.
Countries with unequal distributions of
resources and political power become more
egalitarian and democratic, and previously
powerless people gain power and influence.
Although institutions are sometimes created
by colonialism or military conquest, they
can often evolve through good decisions,
virtuous paths, and the intrinsic dynamics
of the development process, as in Mauritius.
It is also possible that even transitory condi-

Equity, institutions, and the development process

tional solutions lead to permanent change,
because growth unleashes transformations
that induce beneficial changes in institutions. This message from modernization
theory23 is precisely what may have happened in the Republic of Korea.
The biggest challenge is to understand
processes of change and to distill from them
lessons about how poorer societies can
undergo beneficial institutional transitions.
This does not appear to have happened in
Argentina (box 6.2) or Guyana, but it did
happen in Britain in the seventeenth, eighteenth, and nineteenth centuries and in Finland, Sweden, Spain, and the Republic of
Korea in the twentieth century. It also happened in Mauritius. Here we briefly review
three such transitions: early modern Britain,
Finland and Sweden in the early twentieth
century, and China in the last 20 years. The
transitions and policy choices in Spain are
discussed in focus 3 on Spain.

Early modern Britain
Around 1500 most European countries
were highly hierarchical feudal societies
ruled by absolute monarchs whose powers
were endowed by God. The most prosperous places, such as the Italian city states of
Venice, Genoa and Florence, had escaped
feudalism and were ruled by republican
governments strongly representing mercantile interests. The Netherlands also escaped
intense feudalism and was relatively prosperous, but it was part of the autocratic
Habsburg Empire. Nevertheless, the differences in income between the most and the
least prosperous places were relatively
small. After 1500, this picture began to
change rapidly. First the Netherlands and
then Britain became much more prosperous than the rest of Europe, and the
Mediterranean world went into decline.
As North and Thomas (1973) argued, the
most plausible explanation for these changes
is the emergence of constitutional government in the Netherlands and Britain: diverging prosperity within the early modern period
was tied to the evolution of political institutions.24 Institutions improved because of a
change in the distribution of resources and
political power. Indeed, there was a virtuous
circle of changes in institutions, the broader

distribution of resources and power, and
subsequent changes in institutions. These
changes included the collapse of feudalism
and serfdom and the move to a free labor
market, the changes in land distribution, the
commercialization of agriculture and the
development of interoceanic commerce.25
Yet, even after 1688, the political system
was at root oligarchic. Further changes
were needed in the distribution of power
toward greater political equality to sustain
Britain’s development path and eventually
deliver a more egalitarian society. Even
though Britain was a constitutional regime,
it was a very limited democracy in 1800.
Before the first reform act of 1832 set in
motion political liberalizations that culminated in full democracy in 1918, fewer than
10 percent of adult males could vote. The
reason for these changes seems to have been
the effect of early industrialization and
urbanization on the ability of the disenfranchised to contest the power of political
elites.26 British democratization in the nineteenth century was the outcome of a series
of strategic concessions by political elites to
avoid social disorder.27
While the political system of the eighteenth century was consistent with individual initiative, invention, and the start of the
industrial revolution in Britain, sustained
long-run growth called for broad investment, particularly in human capital. Such
institutions had to wait for mass democracy to begin to arrive after 1867.28 However, the longer history of the Poor Laws
provide an example of how provisioning
for adverse risks was also supportive of
greater dynamism (box 6.4)—a theme we
return to in chapter 7.
The types of political reforms in nineteenthcentury Britain led to economic institutions
that clearly influenced the distribution of
income, most obviously the promotion of
education after 1867. But the same period
also saw extensive labor market reforms that
strengthened the bargaining power of labor
and led to the rise of the Labor Party. After
1906, the Liberal government of Herbert
Asquith also began to introduce the basics of
a welfare state, further extended by the Labor
government after 1945. As Britain began to
adopt institutions that promoted prosperity,

119

120

BOX 6.4

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Aiding equitable growth in early modern
Britain: the role of the Poor Laws

Far from being a consequence of successful
economic growth, recent historical research
on seventeenth- and eighteenth-century
Britain has found that widespread but
unique institutions of social security were in
existence for several centuries before the
industrial revolution. Indeed, scholars
increasingly argue that a previously underestimated influence on Britain’s industrial
revolution, in fact, lies in its prior agricultural
revolution.The principal comparator here is
with the immensely advanced Dutch rural
and trading economy of the sixteenth and
seventeenth centuries. Many of the most
important technical innovations in British
agriculture during this period, such as land
drainage engineering, new crop types, and
rotations, were directly borrowed from the
Dutch.Yet it was the British agricultural and
service economy that was increasingly outpacing the Dutch as the seventeenth and
eighteenth centuries progressed. Why?
Attention has recently been given to
one major institutional difference between
the two countries—the nationwide system
of social security created in England by the
Poor Laws, which gradually evolved during
the course of the sixteenth century, culminating in the famous Elizabethan statutes of
1598 and 1601.This was a Christian humanist response, imbued with a new optimism
about what government could and should
be able to achieve in the face of perceptions
of increased poverty amid plenty in a time
of population growth.The Poor Law was
mandated by the central state but—most
important for its practical effectiveness—its
implementation was entirely locally
devolved: it was funded by a local tax on
property in every parish, administered by
local officials but also rigorously enforced by
local magistrates. It went side by side with a
relatively efficient nationwide population
registration system, the Church of England’s

parish registers, which was instituted in
1538.This placed the English population on
an entirely different basis, in terms of social
security, from that of the rest of Europe.
The comprehensive social security system
provided by the Poor Laws had a number of
highly significant economic consequences.In
combination with laws (dating from the thirteenth century) granting complete alienability
of land, it encouraged labor mobility and
reduced the attachment to land holding as
the only form of security for peasants.Individuals had a relative certainty of being provided
for, wherever they moved to work in the economy, no matter what their property-ownership status.Landlords and farmers could reap
the economic gains to be had from increased
farm sizes, from enclosure, and from laying off
workers or changing their labor contracts to
more efficient weekly or day labor, without
provoking the same degree of peasant
protest as occurred on the continent.But
equally, employers in England had a strong
incentive only to do this if it made economic
sense because, through the Poor Law, they
would also have to reckon with their liability
to pay for the families of the laid-off workers.
What the Poor Law created in England
was a public system of acknowledgment of
collective responsibility for the basic subsistence of all, including for a strikingly nonmoralistic approach to the support of single
mothers and their illegitimate children.The
comparative evidence suggests a relative
lack of correspondence in England—alone
in all of Europe—between fluctuations in
the price of food and the death rate, and
England—but not Ireland—was the first
nation in the world to cease to experience
famine-related mortality.
Sources: Szreter (2005) drawing on Slack (1990),
Wrigley (1998), Solar (1997), Solar (1995), King
(1997), King (2000), Lees (1998).

it was still a highly unequal society, and
inequality almost certainly increased until the
early or mid-nineteenth century (figure 6.7).
Although precise measures of inequality differ depending on the sources, inequality
appears to have risen until the early and perhaps mid-nineteenth century.29 After about
1870, there is wide consensus that inequality
fell substantially for the next century.
The fall in inequality after 1870 is closely
correlated with the Second Reform Act of

1867, which was the first reform that really
expanded voting rights to working people.
When democracy enfranchises the relatively
poor, they usually can use democracy to tilt
economic institutions and the distribution of
income in society in their favor.30

Twentieth-century Finland
and Sweden31
Finland and Sweden are popularly identified as prosperous countries with generous
welfare states that, in some measure, are
products of a small and ethnically homogenous population. But, a closer reading of
their economic histories shows that their
contemporary “virtuous circles”—with
growth and equity mutually reinforcing—
are the outcome of a long and difficult
political struggle to establish institutions
and enact policies that provide broad economic opportunities and respond to the
inherently wrenching social transitions of
positive (economic growth, structural
change) and negative shocks (macroeconomic crises, civil war).
Finland was part of Sweden in the Middle
Ages, but following a war between Russia and
Sweden in 1808–09, it became part of the
Russian empire. It experienced one of the last
European famines in 1867–68, an event that
ushered in major demographic and economic changes as entire regions were devastated. The Russian revolution of 1917 led to a
collapse of imperial authority in Finland, and
the country soon declared its independence.
But this immediately gave birth to a bloody
civil war between “white guards” (bourgeois
nationalists) and “red guards” (socialists loyal
to Russia). More than 30,000 troops alone
lost their lives.
In the aftermath, however, many progressive reforms laid the foundation for the modern Finnish economy and society. Land
reform—a major cause of the civil war—was
enacted almost immediately. A law passed in
1918 allowed sharecroppers to buy their land,
and amendments in 1922 facilitated the subsidized expansion of small farms. Progressive
income and wealth taxation were in place by
1920, soon followed by expansions of
women’s rights (although universal suffrage
in parliamentary elections had been in place
since 1906) and commitments by the central

Equity, institutions, and the development process

government (not just local municipalities) to
primary education.
From the late 1940s until the early 1990s
the economy expanded steadily, with per
capita incomes catching up with Great
Britain in the 1980s and Sweden in the
1990s (from roughly half a century earlier).
This success was a product of Asian-style
“governed markets”: collaboration between
the state and private sector was harnessed to
rapidly industrialize an economy that, as
late as the 1950s, generated 40 percent of its
output from agriculture.32 A crucial counterpart to Finland’s activist industrial policy
(based on high rates of capital accumulation and public saving, low interest rates on
credit, and major investments in manufacturing infrastructure), however, was the
construction of a welfare state to cushion
citizens of all ages against the unsettling
social changes wrought by such a rapid economic transformation.
Strong and credible political leadership
was central to making this possible. In the
aftermath of World War II, President Urho
Kekkoken famously asked his nation, “Do we
have the patience to prosper?” Thereafter, he
set about negotiating the arrangements
(“social corporatism”) among industrialists,
trade unions, and citizen groups that would
enable all to act as complements. The Finnish
model has its problems (high unemployment), but it shows how state, market, and
society can jointly generate the institutions,
policies, and spaces needed to generate equitable development outcomes.
Sweden is perhaps most closely associated with the welfare state today. Less well
known is the timing and sequencing of
events putting it in place. Importantly, the
Swedish welfare state was the product of,
not a precursor to, the country’s transition
to modern economic growth. Indeed, it was
designed in response to the very problems
(old-age security, unemployment) generated by such growth. But to make such
growth possible, and to have in place
sociopolitical conditions that would enable
the articulation of and sustained support
for something like the welfare state (when
such a system existed only in rather embryonic forms elsewhere in the capitalist
world), it was vital that a prior set of equi-

Figure 6.7 Inequality in Britain began to fall around 1870
Gini coefficient
0.8

Lindert and Williamson (1982, 1983)

0.6
0.4

Williamson (1985)

Bourguignon and
Morrison (2002)

0.2
0.0
1759 1801 1823 1867 1871 1881 1890 1901 1910 1929 1950 1960 1970 1980 1992
Sources: Lindert and Williamson (1982), Lindert and Williamson (1983), Williamson (1985),
and Bourguignon and Morrisson (2002).

table institutional arrangements be in
place.
In Sweden, these prior arrangements
were unusually favorable to upward mobility by subordinate groups: a long history of
peasant autonomy, a correspondingly weak
aristocracy, and an emerging nation-state
able to secure support from farmers while
also repudiating aristocratic claims on its
powers. Sweden was also the first country to
have a central bank (in 1668) and among the
first to grant basic property rights. As such,
“inclusion of the peasantry in the transformation of the agrarian economy and
institutional arrangements that sustained
egalitarianism were to become fundamental
elements in the rise of the Swedish industrial
market economy.”33 This was an economy
increasingly grounded in broad political
rights and social opportunities.
But history is not destiny. Equitable
development is as much a function of key
choices and decisions at pivotal historic
junctures. The Middle Ages, the industrial
revolution, and the tumultuous twentieth
century unleashed sweeping forces on
Swedish society. Some were leveling (rising
agricultural productivity), others wrenching (mass unemployment). Each attempt to
respond to these forces established the
political contours for subsequent attempts.
Drawing on and extending the equitable
institutional foundations during these pivotal historic junctures have been the unifying elements of Sweden’s development
strategy. Its achievements to date have been
remarkable, even as twenty-first-century
realities present distinctive challenges to its
welfare state.

121

122

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

The main implications of the Finnish and
Swedish cases for today’s developing countries are that economic growth and sociopolitical equity can be powerfully reinforcing,
and can be underpinned by institutional
transitions. These cases should not be seen as
blueprints for others to follow. Instead, they
should be read as examples of how commitments to equity in a given context help lay the
foundations for short- and long-term prosperity by consolidating virtuous circles linking institutions and incentives.

China in the late twentieth century
Economic development in China since 1978
has been nothing short of spectacular. With
the quadrupling of GDP per capita over the
last 25 years, China has transformed itself
from a poor centrally planned economy to
a lower-middle-income emerging market
economy. As a result, the number of people
living in poverty (under $1 per day) fell from
634 million in 1981 to 212 million in 2001.34
From the perspective of this chapter, what
is interesting is that the world’s largest country has undergone profound economic
transformation without substantially changing the political institutional structure, that
remains dominated by the Chinese Communist Party. Yet institutional improvement did
take place in China along with economic
reform. And the large increase in nonstate
investment and free entry into profitable
economic opportunities suggest that property rights are secure, despite the absence of a
Western-style judicial system.
While the particular institutional form is
different from other cases reviewed here, the
experience in China is broadly consistent
with the thesis of this chapter. The earlier
discussion of equitable transitions in Britain
and Scandinavian countries illustrated the
argument that a successful economic system
depends on the political system to assign
and enforce property rights and contracts,
and to protect the market from political
encroachment. China’s recent history suggests that the starting point for reforms
does not necessarily have to be in political
institutions. Changes in economic institutions and in economic relations among levels of government can also establish credible
commitment to a reform path and act as a

check on the discretionary use of power by
the central government. China’s experience
also demonstrates that what is important for
equitable development are credible checks
on the arbitrary use of power, assurance of
property rights and fair treatment for a
broad segment of society. The particular
form that institutions take to deliver these
functions can vary, especially during periods
of transition.
The key to China’s equitable development
was the combination of initial conditions
and the economic reforms launched in 1978
that unleashed entrepreneurial initiative and
legitimized the profit motive. China’s economic policies following the 1949 revolution
proved seriously flawed: they stifled incentives for investment and innovation. But the
social policies of the Mao Tse-Tung period
leveled the distribution of assets in important
and durable ways. As a result, both land and
human capital were equitably distributed on
the eve of reforms. With the adoption of the
rural household responsibility system, peasants became the immediate beneficiaries of
reform. This helped to reinforce equity, while
unleashing entrepreneurial initiative and
boosting productivity.
The economic reforms launched in
1978 aimed at decentralizing economic
decisions—to individual farm households,
enterprise managers, local governments—
so as to generate incentives for investment
and innovation. Importantly, the form
these policies took and the transitional
institutions that were created were
designed to preserve the political support
for reforms, by compensating potential
losers.
The aftermath of the cultural revolution,
and the recognition that China’s economy
had fallen behind—not least in relation to the
East Asian Tigers—led to a growing consensus on the need for and urgency of change,
and paved the way for the economic reforms
initiated under Deng Xiaoping’s leadership.
These reforms were inspired by the widespread recognition of the failure of central
planning as an instrument for economic
organization, and reflected the need to deliver
on economic growth for the legitimacy of the
new leadership. The political need for growth
implied a new focus on liberating markets

Equity, institutions, and the development process

and incentives. The sequencing of reforms
and the transitional institutional arrangements that accompanied the economic
decentralization, on the other hand, reflected
the premium the leadership placed on social
and political stability.
The impetus for economic decentralization on the one hand, and the need for an
integrated national market on the other,
helped to shape a dynamic relationship
between the central government and local
governments that held them mutually
accountable and limited discretion on both
sides. Over time, the result of these policies
was to create a stake in new economic institutions for all the main actors, including the
local governments which served as a credible
check on the powers of the central government in the economic domain. The reforms
also fueled the emergence of strong economic
centers, such as Guangdong province and the
Shanghai municipality. These centers now
wield considerable influence and bargaining
power relative to the central government and
can serve as important countervailing forces.
How did economic decentralization reinforce private incentives? According to Walder
and Oi (1999), “For almost 20 years, reform
in China has proceeded through the gradual
reassignment of specific property rights from
higher government agencies to lower government agencies, or from government agencies
to enterprises, managers, families, or individuals” (7). All of these reforms enhanced the
power of economic agents to make decisions
over economic activities in their respective
domains, and boosted productivity through
better incentives. Farmers retained their earnings and therefore worked harder and
invested more. Township and village governments had rights to the profits made by
township and village enterprises (TVEs) and
therefore adopted policies that promoted
business. But because they had no revenue
authority, they did not have the ability to bail
out poorly performing TVEs, which made for
hard budget constraints and higher efficiency.
Higher levels of local governments (country and province) acquired control over local
enterprises and therefore also had a stake in
their performance. They were allowed to
retain more local revenues through fiscal contracting and to have extrabudgetary funds,

which generated incentives that focused on
collection to provide local public goods that
attracted local investments. These changes
provided for significant autonomy from the
central government and considerable independent authority over their economies.
The modern Chinese system includes a division of authority between the central and local
governments. The latter have primary control
over economic matters within their jurisdictions. Critically, there is an important degree
of political durability built into the system.35

China’s reforms are also replete with innovative mechanisms for protecting potential
losers during transitional periods. This often
involved designing reforms that sustained
sources of income for incumbents, by
keeping important elements of pre-existing
pricing and payment mechanisms, while
providing incentives at the margin. “The
transitional institutions [were] not created
solely for increasing the size of [the] pie, [but
also] to reflect the distributional concerns of
how the enlarged pie is divided and the political concerns of how the interests of those in
power are served.”36
Dual pricing at the start of reforms is a
prime example. The system obliged farmers
and enterprises to sell specified quantities to
the state at “plan” prices, while allowing them
to obtain market prices for any above-quota
production. This maintained the planning
system for those who benefited from it, while
creating incentives for efficient production.
Equally important, it allowed time for market
institutions to emerge, avoiding the institutional vacuum that plagued many transition
economies when state institutions were dismantled. Fiscal contracting guaranteed the
central government a certain level of revenues,37 but it generated incentives for local
governments to collect more because the
marginal retention rate was much higher.
Similarly, labor contracting allowed state
workers to retain the guarantee of lifetime
employment while introducing greater flexibility in labor policies for new contractual
workers. These arrangements made reforms a
win-win game, ensuring social stability and
the support of those in power.
But there is a danger in such a strategy of
incrementalism: getting stuck in incomplete

123

124

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

reforms if local governments and incumbents acquire too much power and are able
to block further progress. The prevalence of
interprovincial barriers to trade in the
1990s, with each province vying to boost
profits for the enterprises it owned, is an
example. But there are some checks and balances in the system that help maintain the
direction and momentum of reforms. These
include competition among local governments, hard budget constraints for local
governments, the central government’s
insistence on enforcing a unitary market,
and a growing economy that reduces the
economic influence of incumbents.
The struggle for the right balance
between economic centralization and decentralization is constantly evident in many of
China’s domains of intergovernmental relations. The 1994 tax reforms recentralized fiscal revenues, in part to ensure greater
regional equity in spending, and the central
government continues to apply strict controls on deficit financing by local governments. Constraints on labor mobility have
eased considerably over time, helping to create a more unified labor market, despite concerns by some provincial governments that
this might aggravate problems of unemployment for established urban residents.
There are also some more recent and
more permanent institutional changes that
reconfirm the government’s commitment to
market-oriented reform. These include
mechanisms that strengthen accountability
at the local level and empower local populations. Local elections are the most important
of these mechanisms but others include, for
example, recent regulations to eliminate nuisance taxes on the rural population. China
has also successfully used the external commitment device of WTO accession to signal
its resolve to move ahead with market
reforms and impose discipline on incumbents. For example, it is no longer possible
for every province to have its own inefficient
automobile factory erected behind trade barriers designed to provide local employment
and local taxes. More broadly, China’s desire
to carve for itself an important place in the
global order and to be recognized as a
responsible global power places constraints
on the shape of its future policies.

Qian (2003) notes the following:
There is apparently a larger room than we
thought for institutional innovation to
simultaneously address both the economic
and political concerns, that is, to make a
reform efficiency improving and interest
compatible for those in power (305).

But there are many challenges ahead, some
of which will not be amenable to win-win
solutions and therefore are likely to be politically and socially more costly. Continued
reforms in the state enterprise and financial
sectors, managing rural-urban migration,
and addressing increasing regional disparities
(see focus 6 on regional inequality) are some
of these challenges. Macroeconomic policy
and structural reforms will need to be underpinned by further institutional improvement
to ensure broader participation and accountability so that the interests and desire of the
people are better reflected in decision making, and to further strengthen the government’s capacity to lead market-oriented
reform while maintaining economic and
social equity.

Conclusion
A few simple principles go a long way
toward unifying different development
experiences in the historic and the contemporary worlds. There is little disagreement
among scholars that basic institutions, such
as security of property rights and equality
before the law, are keys to prosperity. These
institutions lie behind the capital, financial,
land, and labor markets that we saw in
action in chapter 5. Because talent and ideas
are widely distributed in the population, a
prosperous modern society requires the
mass of people to have incentives—and a
state that can and will provide key complementary inputs and public goods. It
therefore requires an underlying set of
institutions that generate the equality of
opportunity for individuals and assure the
accountability of politicians to all.
Why do some societies have such institutions and not others? A relatively egalitarian distribution of political power
underpins the institutions that promote
prosperity. Institutions clearly have distributional effects, and bad institutions often

Equity, institutions, and the development process

arise because they benefit some group or
elite. Good institutions arise when checks
are placed on the power of elites and when
the balance of political power becomes more
equal in society. Often, equality of political
power is supported by economic equality,
and this connection gives rise to the possibility of both virtuous and vicious circles.
Growth certainly can occur in societies
in which these conditions do not apply. But
the preponderance of evidence suggests that
such growth is unsustainable. This perspective is consistent with historical narratives,
basic patterns in cross-country data, and
more careful causal empirical work on the
sources of prosperity.
The crucial question for the promotion
of development is this: how can poor societies improve their institutions and move

onto a dynamic path toward a virtuous circle of equity and prosperity? The organization of society is highly persistent, but we
have seen many cases of transitions to better institutions. Sometimes, as in early
modern Britain, economic changes lead to
changes in the distribution of power, which
promotes a more equitable society and better institutions. Contemporary China follows a similar pattern albeit with a different
configuration of institutions. In other
times, as in the Republic of Korea and
Indonesia, regimes are forced, by external
or internal threats, to change the trajectory
of their society in ways that become institutionalized. In still other times, such as Mauritius and Botswana, leaders make good
decisions that lead to reinforcing paths of
better institutions and development.

125

focus 4 on

Indonesia

Growth, equity, and poverty reduction in an East Asian giant

I

ndonesia presents an illuminating
example of the long-term interactions
of the three basic themes of this report
on equity and development:
•

The importance of market-driven
processes in determining the distribution of opportunities and incomes.

•

The role of political processes, and the
engagement of the poor in these
processes, in determining the policy
framework for market and asset accumulation.

•

The overriding dominance of institutions in determining the long-run conditions of governance for markets and
politics to operate.

These complex interactions require long
periods of developmental evolution to
observe and identify.
Indonesia has substantial variance
across all three of these themes. There is
enough independence in the variance for
each factor to sort out, if only roughly, what
is driving what. In chapter 6, the political
dimension of the economic performance of
the Suharto regime was discussed. Here, we
discuss the connections with policy
choices.
Because Indonesia has been so important to the development profession, it has
been studied for a long time. The Dutch
exploited the Netherlands East Indies from
the seventeenth century to early in the
twentieth century. Then, under political
pressure at home, the Dutch experimented
with an “Ethical Policy” for the colony, and
the poor benefited significantly. During the
Great Depression, World War II, and the
fight for Independence, the Indonesian
economy deteriorated rapidly, and the poor
suffered disproportionately. Java was the
original home of the “dual economy” analyzed by Boeke (1946) and formalized by
Lewis (1954). After declaring independence
in 1945, President Sukarno eventually put

“politics in command” in 1959 and produced a ruinous inflation that brought
much of the population to near starvation in
the mid-1960s. It was with just cause that
Gunnar Myrdal pronounced in Asian
Drama, 1967, that “no economist holds out
any hope for Indonesia.”
Indonesia’s rapid, pro-poor growth for
the 30 years after the fall of Sukarno astonished the development profession and,
along with other countries in East and
Southeast Asia, Indonesia became the object
of intense analysis.1 In Indonesia, the weak
starting conditions significantly influenced
how the economic planners approached the
task of linking growth to the poor. They
designed a three-tiered strategy for propoor growth, which connected sound
macroeconomic policy to market activities
that were facilitated by progressively lower
transaction costs. Those policies were linked
to household decisions about labor supply,
agricultural production, and investment in
the nontradable economy.
The extent to which the poor benefited
from growth depended on the array of
assets they controlled: their labor, human
capital, social capital, and other forms of
capital, including access to credit.2 Appropriate government policies also influence
those dimensions, especially in health and
education. The “road to pro-poor growth”
started from desperately poor economic
conditions, weak institutions, and a decade
of political instability. It seemed that everything needed to be done at once. The key
was to focus on restarting and then sustaining rapid economic growth, empowering
poor households to enter the market economy, and reducing the costs and risks of
doing so by investments to lower transaction costs.
The strategy worked for three decades:
between 1967 and 1996, income per capita
increased by 5 percent a year. The incomes
of the bottom quintile of the income distribution, all individuals below the national

poverty line until the 1990s and all still subsisting on less than $2 a day, grew at the
same rate (or possibly slightly faster). The
distribution of household expenditures had
been remarkably stable, with the overall
Gini coefficient staying within a narrow
range between 0.31 and 0.36.3 Rural
inequality had actually declined significantly since the 1970s, when access to land
allowed substantial benefits to be reaped
from the green revolution. By the mid1980s, the labor market had become the
primary determinant of income in rural
areas.
But when the Asian financial crisis hit in
1997 and President Suharto was forced to
resign in the face of widespread rioting in
1998, the country was entirely unprepared in
political or institutional terms to cope with
the rapid changes needed in corporate and
public governance. The crisis sharply lowered inequality, as urban real estate and
financial markets collapsed. But the dramatic reduction in GDP—over 13 percent in
1998 alone—caused poverty rates to triple.
Only after 2002 did poverty rates return to
the previous lows observed in 1996. By 2004
they still had not returned to the trend rate
of decline disrupted in 1998.
Explaining these trends in per capita
incomes and their distribution requires an
understanding of how markets, politics,
and institutions jointly shaped the rapid,
pro-poor growth strategy, its subsequent
collapse, and current efforts to revive it.
Any such explanation is bound to be controversial, and there is no formal model
behind the story about to be told.4 But the
story is plausible and anchored in the historical record.
The story begins with two concerns of
the emerging Suharto government in the
late 1960s. The first was the misery and discontent of the rural masses, who had supported Sukarno’s communist leanings and
populist rhetoric. After a decade of active
discrimination against their livelihoods,

Focus on Indonesia

rural households were near starvation and
thus an obvious source of opposition unless
the new government could incorporate
them in its development plans. Second, the
hyperinflation of the mid-1960s, the total
disintegration of the market economy, and
the political chaos meant the entire population was ready for a more stable life. A
strategy that promised stability and rural
recovery would win wide support (as it
would throughout densely settled East and
Southeast Asia).
This is the message that Suharto delivered to his technocrats. This economic
team had engaged Suharto and other senior
military officials in economic training exercises at the Military College. The technocrats were handed the macroeconomic
portfolio and told to deliver on what
became known in Indonesia as the development trilogy—growth, equity, and stability.
To many in the political and military arena,
stability meant repressive measures to stifle
dissent, but to the technocrats it meant
restraining inflation (which they did in
spectacular fashion in just three years) and
stabilizing the rice economy, which was still
a quarter of GDP and providing half the
average Indonesian’s daily calories. The
institutions built to provide this stability, in
both macro terms and in the food economy, became essential to the Suharto
regime’s success.5
Thirty years of rapid economic growth,
with equally rapid rates of poverty reduction, was politically popular (the elasticity
of reduction of the headcount poverty
index with respect to growth in per capita
incomes was about 1.3 during the Suharto
era). Every five years, the polling results for
parliament were gleaned for signs of disappointment with the development program.
Despite the heavy hand of Golkar, the president’s party, real information was flowing
from villages up to the center through these
elections.
Almost despite the intentions of the
Suharto regime, political institutions were
taking root (people expected to vote) and
these institutions provided feedback to the
policy approach of the government. There
were other feedback mechanisms as well,
and the ones that threatened stability were
taken very seriously. After the 1974 riots in
Jakarta in reaction to the visibly widening
income distribution, especially in urban
areas, the government responded brutally

by putting down the riots and imprisoning
the student leaders. Then it mounted a serious effort to make the economy more equitable. The result, also stimulated by the
world food crisis in 1973–4, was a major shift
in priorities toward rural development and a
specific push toward increasing domestic
rice production. Behind this push were the
objectives of stabilization and equity. To
lose control of the rice economy was to lose
control of what mattered to Indonesian
society.
The restructuring of Indonesia’s development approach after 1974, especially the preemptive devaluation of the rupiah in 1978,
signaled the government’s determination to
include the poor in the development process.
The stability of the Gini coefficient seen from
the late 1960s to 2004 should not be taken as
the result of market-driven forces in the face
of given technology, but as a conscious government effort, led from the macroeconomic
arena by the technocrats, to stimulate propoor growth.6 This effort succeeded in spectacular fashion until the mid-1990s, when
cronyism and the growing influence of
Suharto’s children on economic decision
making caused the approach to unravel.
Part of the problem of post-Suharto
governments has been their need to distance themselves from this record of repression and cronyism, despite three decades of
pro-poor growth. This tension brought the
failure of political and institutional development during the Suharto era to the fore.
Questions about causality remain, particularly whether rapid, pro-poor growth can
be implemented by authoritarian regimes.
Indonesia’s record, along with that of most
of East and Southeast Asia, indicates that
they can. But is such growth sustainable?
And which is more important for managing
long-run, pro-poor growth: good economics or good institutions?
In Indonesia, there was no “chicken or
egg” problem. Something had to be done at
once in view of widespread destitution and
political chaos, and the sequencing was
clear. Rapid, pro-poor economic growth
was imposed by an authoritarian regime
concerned about its survival. But this same
regime also imposed on itself commitment
mechanisms to make the growth process
market friendly to rural households and to
Chinese capitalists—that is, both ends of
the economic system. Inflation was brought
under control by a law requiring the

127

national budget be balanced quarter by
quarter—a law Suharto basically imposed
on himself, but then touted to all constituents as a rule the government had to
live under. To build confidence among the
Chinese business community, the government opened the capital account in 1970
when it unified the exchange rate. The flow
of foreign exchange to and from Singapore
and Hong Kong was a sensitive barometer
of the investment climate.
Thus the two constraints on the presidency, which Suharto felt personally and
used as motivation for his bureaucracy and
government (not the same thing in Indonesia), were the need for rural areas to participate in growth, and the need to keep the
investment climate highly favorable for
Suharto’s business partners. The response to
both constraints was an economic package—
low inflation, food price stability, an open
economy, and massive investments in rural
infrastructure—that generated rapid propoor growth. But another part of the
investment climate, a part only for those
favored business partners, involved special
licenses, trade protection, and lucrative
access to domestic markets. This part
unraveled the “open economy” part of the
growth package.
The Suharto legacy, despite the deep
commitment to pro-poor growth, did not
build the groundwork for a political and
institutional framework that would ultimately support it. A deep tension developed
between the institutional framework to
keep the open economy functioning efficiently and the political controls to keep the
cronies’ businesses profitable. Without political feedback about these very same political
controls, the regime was blindsided by the
ferocity of the opposition to its management of the Asian financial crisis. The
depth of the crisis, both economic and
political, reflected the vacuum of institutions in place to cope with an alternative
political system.
The climb out of the chaos of 1998 mirrors that from the 1965 era, but this time
without order imposed from above. The
eagerness and skill with which the Indonesian population has participated in the
democratic process suggests that social and
political order will now be far more sustainable. The challenge now is to translate the
same democratic process into rapid and
sustainable pro-poor economic growth.

Leveling the economic
and political playing fields

III

PART

WHAT CAN BE DONE TO INCREASE EQUITY IN THE WORLD? Can this be
done in ways that also spur long-term prosperity? We read in part I that
there are large inequalities of opportunity between people within countries and—even more—between people in different countries. These
inequalities are perpetuated through interlocking economic, political,
and sociocultural mechanisms, creating inequality traps. Individuals
from different groups and countries face a highly uneven playing field,
both in their capacities to acquire endowments and aspire to a better life,
and in their opportunities to reap returns from those endowments
through market and nonmarket processes. Because differences between
countries often exceed within-country differences, it is of particular
importance that national policies support, or are at least consistent with,
the narrowing of international differences, notably through the growth
process.
We argued in part II that many inequalities not only violate people’s concern for fairness, but actually have costs for the development
process. The effects on development depend on specific forms of
inequality and their interactions with market imperfections and institutions. Unequal opportunities are associated with inefficiencies and
wasted economic potential. Pronounced inequalities in the distribution of power are often associated with weak economic institutions,
undermining the investment and innovation that is central to longrun growth. Greater equity is thus not only intrinsically desirable but
also is complementary to long-run growth and prosperity. For poorer
and excluded groups, a focus on equity can bring a double benefit—a
bigger pie and a greater share.
But the scope for such a complementary relationship between
equity and aggregate development is often not exploited. When examining this, we suggest there are two kinds of pathology in policy

130

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

design. First, there is the pathology associated with oligarchic dominance—institutions and policies that further the interest of
elites but not those of the whole society.
This may take the form of extreme predation and high-level corruption, as in
Mobutu’s Zaire or Haiti under the Duvaliers. Or it may take the form of enmeshed
alliances between economic and political
elites that favor rent-seeking, as in the
Philippines under Marcos, in much of Latin
America in past decades, and in more subtle
forms in many countries of the world.
Second, there is a more complex pathology of policies pursued with the intent, or in
the name, of equity that have high efficiency
costs or perverse effects. Communist economic policy was disastrous for efficiency,
even while many communist societies did
much in social provisioning. Directed
credit—in India, for example—was intended
for the poor (and reached some of the poor),
but proved a high-cost strategy. Populist
macropolicy is always bad for growth, and
almost always bad for equity sooner or
later—witness Argentina during much of the
second half of the twentieth century. Perverse or growth-sapping effects of policies
under this pathology can be caused by
adverse consequences for incentives, unaffordable fiscal burdens, or the capture of the
benefits, often by middle groups, which
“hoard opportunities” at a cost for other
groups and the overall growth process.
What can be done? At a fundamental
level, the analysis underscores the centrality
of shifting to a state that is more accountable, has checks on predatory behavior of
political and economic elites, is responsive
to all citizens—especially from middle and
poorer groups—and has effective conflict
management mechanisms. In part II, we
sketched cases of transitions in this direction from history and contemporary experiences, and at the local level. The emphasis
in the development community on issues of
governance and empowerment is entirely
consistent with this perspective.
While such overall shifts are central to
development, the World Bank has neither
the mandate nor the comparative advantage
to discuss specifics of the design of political

institutions (even though action to support
empowerment of the poor is now emphasized in the design of specific policies—see
Narayan 2002). In part III, we focus on a set
of areas that do lie squarely in the arena of
development analysis and practice—in policies affecting the sectors, markets, and in the
global arena. This recognizes the influence
of the political and sociocultural context,
but focuses rather on what an equity prism,
based on the analysis of parts I and II, has to
say about the policy design to break inequality traps and support aggregate growth The
lesson from part II is that this implies paying
attention to specific inequalities and their
interactions with markets, social structure,
and power. This involves both issues of technical design and mechanisms that provide
the political underpinnings for change,
notably through broader accountability,
coalitions for change, or compensation of
losers. And while an overarching message is
of the potential complementarity between
greater equity and long-run prosperity,
there will often be tradeoffs in specific areas
and context. One cross-cutting area concerns the need to raise taxes to finance desirable public spending. The design of tax
instruments is of great importance to minimize adverse efficiency effects, while also
promoting equity where feasible.
We organize the discussion of domestic
action into three areas. First is building and
protecting people’s human capacities—
from the start of people’s lives and through
adulthood and old age. Here we focus on
equalizing from the bottom up—equalizing
up the opportunities of the least advantaged
in terms of skills, health, and risk management. There are certainly issues of equity
among more advantaged groups, but we
give priority to the disadvantaged (in part
for reasons of space). As seen in part II,
there are major market imperfections in
human capital formation and insurance
that affect poor or lower-status groups
most, yet political action has also often been
biased against these groups.
Second is ensuring equitable access to justice and complementary assets. A fair and
accessible justice system is crucial for constraining the power of the political and eco-

Leveling the economic and political playing fields

nomic elite, avoiding discrimination, and
protecting property rights and personal safety
for all—with important implications for the
willingness to invest and innovate. Inequitable
access to land and infrastructure—by wealth,
location, or social group—is typical of developing societies and often enmeshed with
political structures. Policy design can help
shifts to more equitable and often more efficient patterns (chapter 8).
Third is the domain of markets—financial, labor, and product—that have a powerful influence on the returns to people’s
endowments. As chapters 5 and 6 argued,
markets are typically far from ideal, working in noncompetitive and discriminatory
ways, whether because of intrinsic market
imperfections, or because power structures
have shaped them to serve the purposes of
those in power. In these areas, and notably
in the case of finance, a primary concern is
equalizing down, by reducing protecting
privileges of incumbents. Closely related is
the conduct of macroeconomic policy
(chapter 9).
In the global arena, concern remains with
individuals—and the enormous, unjustified
differences in opportunity that people face
through the morally irrelevant fact of country of birth. The global playing field between

nation-states is uneven—and has uneven
effects on different groups within countries.
There is substantial scope for making the
playing field more even. But as in the domestic arena, policy design involves both technical questions (such as the details of migration arrangements and the application and
design of patent legislation) and the political
underpinnings of rules and institutions for
global governance. We examine the potential
for change both in the key global markets—
for labor, products, ideas, and capital—and
in the potential scope for designing aid in
ways that support (rather than undercut)
domestic development, and through more
effective and equitable management of the
global commons (chapter 10).
The epilogue links the report’s perspective
on equity to the thinking and agreements that
have evolved in the development community
in the past decade—captured, for example, in
the Millennium Declaration (2000) and the
Monterrey Consensus (2002)—as well as the
World Bank’s own strategic pillars of an
enabling investment climate and promoting
empowerment. We argue that an approach to
development that is deeply informed by
equity is fundamental to the full integration of
these frameworks into an effective development strategy.

131

Human capacities

7

chapter

132

Expanding people’s capabilities to lead
fuller lives, the aim of all development,
means investing in their education and
health and in their ability to manage risks.
But as chapters 5 and 6 discussed, failures in
markets and governments conspire to generate large inequalities in people’s opportunities to build their capabilities. Children
from poorer families start out life with
greater disadvantages than their wealthier
peers, attend lower-quality schools, have
less access to health services, and are not as
protected from economic downturns and
family crises. By the time they are adults,
they are far less equipped to be productive
members of society. Economic, political,
and sociocultural inequalities fuel such differences in life chances, perpetuating them
across generations.
Public action can level the playing field
and broaden opportunities by addressing
inequalities in access to quality education,
health care, and risk management. Welldesigned policies will result in more equitably distributed opportunities to acquire
endowments and boost overall productivity. As potentially talented and productive
individuals gain access to the services from
which they may have been excluded for reasons that have nothing to do with their
potential, societies make gains through
greater efficiency and greater social cohesion in the long run.
Still, there are challenges. Programs require
resources, administrative capacity, and political support. This means paying attention to
the design of tax systems, tailoring program
intervention to context, and above all building
constituencies for change. We focus on leveling the playing field mainly through augmenting the capacities of those with the
fewest opportunities, but we recognize that it
may be necessary to attack the undue influ-

ence of the powerful and the wealthy to be
able to shape public policies to benefit the rest
of society. As we have seen, successful transitions are far more likely where the power of
the excluded to influence public action has
been enhanced.
There are strong complementarities among
the different investments in people. Better
nourished children have higher cognitive
abilities. Well-educated parents, especially
mothers, invest more in their children’s
education and health. More educated individuals are likely to be more resilient to
shocks. Instruments to smooth consumption will spur people to take on not only
higher risk but also potentially higher
return activities and prevent them from disinvesting in themselves (lowering food
intake, forgoing treatment) or in their children (pulling them out of school) in times
of shocks. And people with more human
capital and better risk management capabilities can reduce the variability and increase
the level of their incomes.
The policies we consider in this chapter
are particularly important in arresting the
intergenerational transmission of inequalities. We begin with a review of the rationale
and potential for early childhood development programs. We next consider broader
education and health policies for expanding
access to quality education and care, and
finally discuss transfer policies that help
manage risks and provide for efficient and
equity-enhancing redistribution.

Early childhood development:
a better start in life
By the time poorer children in many countries
reach school age, they are at a significant disadvantage in cognitive and social ability. The
Ecuadorian study cited in chapter 2 docu-

Human capacities

mented substantial differences at six years of
age, related to socioeconomic status and
parental education. Differences in childhood
cognitive abilities are indeed apparent as early
as 22 months of age. One study in the United
States shows that by age three the gaps in
learning, measured by vocabulary, are already
large among children from different social
groups (figure 7.1).1 Cognitive learning is
affected by a child’s socioeconomic status
through health (malnutrition, iron and
micronutrient deficiency, parasite infections)
and the quality of the home environment,
including care-giving and cognitive stimulation.2 Scientific evidence on brain development supports this. Recent research findings
revamp earlier thinking that assumed that the
structure of the brain was genetically determined at birth and point to the determining
influence of early experiences—from conception to age six, and particularly the first three
years—on the architecture of the brain and
capacities in adulthood.3
As a child ages, environmental effects
appear to accumulate. Poor cognitive and
social abilities are associated with weaker
future academic performance and lower
adult economic and social outcomes,
including poor health, antisocial behavior,
and violence.4 These underachieving adults
influence the cognitive abilities of the next
generation of children, creating an intergenerational cycle of poverty and unequal
opportunities.5 Studies using internationally comparable student achievement tests
confirm that socioeconomic background is
the overwhelming determinant of learning
outcomes, with schools accounting for no
more than 20 percent of the variation in test
performance.6

Benefits of early interventions
Early interventions can substantially enhance a child’s life chances and loosen the
intergenerational grip of poverty and inequality. In recent years, interest has expanded in early childhood development
(ECD) in low- and middle-income developing countries, paralleling greater attention in developed countries.
Early childhood development programs
comprise a range of interventions that
include providing nutritional supplements to

children, regularly monitoring their growth,
stimulating the development of their cognitive and social skills through more frequent
and structured interactions with a caring
adult, and improving the parenting skills of
caretakers. The evidence suggests that these
programs can be highly effective in addressing problems experienced later in schooling
and adulthood.
A recent study in the United States shows
that investments in the early years of life,
before children reach the formal school system, give greater returns than later investments (figure 7.2).7 Well-designed longitudinal studies—mainly from developed
countries—indicate that programs typically
register improvements for children in
health, cognitive ability, academic performance, and tenure within the school system
and, later in life, higher incomes, higher
incidence of home ownership, lower propensity to be on welfare, and lower rates of
incarceration and arrest.8 This suggests a
strong productivity case for investing in
early childhood development; the arguments for public subsidies to disadvantaged
families are compelling on both productivity and equity grounds. As Heckman argues,
early interventions in children from disadvantaged environments raise no efficiency-equity
trade-offs; they raise the productivity of individuals, the workforce and society at large, and
reduce lifetime inequality by helping to eliminate the factor of accident of birth.9

Studies of ECD programs in developing
countries also document strong benefits
Figure 7.2 Early childhood interventions are good
investments
Return per $ invested
8
Preschool programs
6
Schooling
Opportunity
cost of funds

4
r

Job training

2
Preschool
0
6
0

School

Post-school
18
Age

Source: Carneiro and Heckman (2003).

133

Figure 7.1 Children from better-off
households have a big edge in
cognitive abilities by age three
Early vocabulary growth
Cumulative vocabulary
1200
High
SES
Middle
SES

800

Low
SES
0
12

16

20

24

28

32

Age, months
Source: Hart and Risley (1995).
Note: SES refers to socioeconomic status.

36

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

134

Figure 7.3 Catching up through early intervention
Development quotient
110
Children of normal
height

105

Stimulation and nutritional supplement
Stimulation

100

Nutritional supplement

95
Control group
90
85
Baseline

6

12
Months

18

24

Source: Grantham-McGregor and others (1991).
Note: The Development Quotient is an index composed of ratings in four behavioral and cognitive development indicators: locomotor (large-muscle activities, running, and jumping), hand-eye coordination, hearing and speech, and performance (shape recognition, block construction, and block patterns). “Months” refers to time after entry into the program, generally at around 9 months old.

BOX 7.1

ECD programs are an essential ingredient for the
attainment of education for all

There is sufficient evidence from studies
throughout the world to make a case for
placing early childhood education among
the key interventions to achieve the education Millennium Development Goals
(MDGs).
Higher school enrollment. Colombia’s
ECD program PROMESA reports
significantly higher enrollment rates in primary school for children participating in the
program, compared with children not participating. ECD programs in India (Haryana)
and Guatemala resulted in a significant
decline in enrollment age for girls.
Less grade repetition. In Colombia’s
PROMESA program, the Alagoas and Fortaleza PROAPE study of Northeast Brazil and
the Argentina ECD study, children who participated in the programs repeated fewer
grades and progressed better through
school than did nonparticipants in similar
circumstances.
Fewer dropouts. In India’s Integrated
Child Development Services program in
Dalmau, attendance of children ages six to
eight in primary school increased by 16 percent for children who had participated in
the program; dropout rates did not change

significantly for children from the higher
caste, but fell a dramatic 46 percent for the
lower caste and an astonishing 80 percent
for the middle-caste students. In Colombia
the third-grade enrollment rates for
children who participated in the PROMESA
program increased by 100 percent, reflecting their lower dropout and repetition rates.
In addition, 60 percent of the children who
participated in the ECD program attained
the fourth grade, compared with only 30
percent of the comparison group.
Higher intelligence. ECD programs
encourage young children to explore and
facilitate the social interaction that
promotes cognitive development. Children
who participated in Jamaica’s First HomeVisiting Program, Colombia’s Cali Project,
Peru’s Programa No Formal de Educación
Inicial (PRONOEI),and the Turkish Early
Enrichment Project in low-income areas of
Istanbul averaged higher scores on intellectual aptitude tests than did nonparticipants.
Evidence from other studies, however, suggests that these effects dissipate over time.
Sources: Chaturvedi and others (1987), Myers
(1995),Young (2002).

for all children, with cost-benefit analyses
showing returns of $2–5 for every $1 invested. For example, preliminary results
for experimental nutritional interventions
at 6 to 24 months of age in rural Guatemala
show that consuming a nutritional supplement increased the probability of attend-

ing school by 5.6 percentage points and led
to higher completed schooling attainment
and higher adult cognitive achievement test
scores.
Evidence is also mounting that interventions in early childhood particularly benefit
poor and disadvantaged children and families.10 In Jamaica, nutritional supplementation and stimulation administered to undernourished children between the ages of 9 to
24 months—who are most likely to come
from disadvantaged families—improved
their mental development.11 Malnourished
children who received a milk supplement
developed more than those who did not (figure 7.3). Children who benefited from stimulation did even better, while the benefits of
supplements and stimulation were additive
and allowed disadvantaged children exposed
to them to almost catch up with the development trajectory of “normal” children over a
period of 18 months. The results suggest that
ECD programs may be one of the most costeffective avenues for reaching the Millennium Development Goals for universal education and an important contributor to the
attainment of gender parity in primary completion (box 7.1). They also help mothers
participate in the labor force—poor women
who had access to free child care in the favelas of Rio de Janeiro increased their income
by as much as 20 percent—and improve the
academic performance of older children, as
documented for a community nursery program in rural Colombia.12

Designing ECD programs
Interventions to improve young children’s
capacity to develop and learn can focus on
improving parents’ teaching and child care
skills, delivering services directly to children, or improving child care services in a
community. Programs may be established
in homes, day-care centers, or communities. The evidence suggests that three design
features are important for the full realization of benefits from ECD programs: starting early, having strong parental involvement, and focusing on child health
(especially nutrition) and cognitive and
social stimulation. The focus on health
leads to a virtuous cycle, because improved
health also helps increase cognitive and

Human capacities

social abilities.13 Overly formal programs
can be too expensive for poor families, culturally irrelevant, and insensitive to families’ needs.14 They thus run the risk of being
abandoned even when they demonstrate
high returns.
What then are the impediments to the
widespread implementation of ECD programs given that they are such good investments? Political economy constraints arise
from the difficulty of making a case for
spending resources on a program with the
promise of (uncertain) benefits to come only
years in the future. Such a case is often made
by the immediate beneficiaries (parents of
school-age children) or intermediate beneficiaries (teachers), who organize themselves
into powerful political forces. But the institutional setup for ECD program delivery—
with funds in many instances channeled
to myriad small NGOs, community centers, or home-based caregivers—and the
absence of strong central responsibility
inhibit organized political pressure. The
same institutional setup generates problems of integration with other government
programs and of coordination across several government departments.15
Thinking about the politics and the
design of ECD from the start is thus important. Getting information to parents, community leaders, and policymakers about the
objectives and efficacy of ECD services can
build public awareness and strengthen
demand. Monitoring systems build support
by providing timely feedback on a range of
intermediate outputs to policymakers and
program managers, while proper evaluations
provide more convincing evidence of impact
and broader lessons from interventions.
Integrating ECD programs into the broader
development frameworks and involving parents, families, and community members
enhance the sustainability of programs.16
There are two possible approaches to
scaling up ECD interventions. The first is to
expand publicly funded preschool programs to all children by making it a statutory right, as in several European countries.
This would have significant funding implications, but the benefit is potentially widespread support from middle-class and poor
families with children.

The second approach would target disadvantaged families. This may be more costeffective in view of the evidence presented
earlier on larger gains from interventions for
disadvantaged children. To bolster participation, the program could be supplemented
by a cash-transfer scheme, with transfers
conditioned on various desirable behaviors,
including changes in the homecare environment, as well as regular health center visits
for growth monitoring, immunizations, and
nutrition interventions.17 This would concentrate even more resources on the poor,
but the political economy implications are
less clear. While targeted programs have a
smaller constituency and thus would not
benefit from a broad coalition of support, a
national program, with transparent criteria
for eligibility and good monitoring of “conditionality,” could mobilize support not only
from the direct beneficiaries but also from
other stakeholders in society.
It is possible to combine a universal preschool approach with a conditional cash
transfer (CCT) program. This would yield
the highest benefits in the participation of
the poor and the productivity gains for all,
but it would also be more costly. The
approach adopted in any country setting
will have to emerge from considerations of
costs, benefits, and fiscal capacity—and
reflect the political economy.

Basic education: expanding
opportunities to learn
Prominent in the Millennium Development
Goals, education is a great equalizer of
opportunities between rich and poor and
between men and women. But the equalizing promise of education can be realized
only if children from different backgrounds
have equal opportunities to benefit from
quality education. In the previous section,
we argued that children’s ability to benefit
from school is strongly influenced by the
cognitive and social skills they acquire in
their early years. Evidence suggests that the
gains from early interventions can dissipate
if disadvantaged children go on to lowquality primary schools.18
Chapter 2 documented the large inequalities in educational attainment within countries by income, region, gender, and ethnicity.

135

136

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Chapter 5 presented the economic reasons
why credit-constrained households underinvest in education, making the efficiency case
for subsidizing education for the poor. There
are other reasons for parents to choose a level
of education for their children that may be
lower than what is optimal for the child and
for society. Educational attainment has various societal benefits that are not fully captured by the individual. For example, it is
generally associated with enhanced democracy and lower crime, while girls’ schooling in
particular has been shown to reduce fertility,
empower women, and thereby contribute to
the welfare of children in the family. In addition, education has intrinsic value, enabling
people to lead fuller lives as informed and
active participants in society.
The case for moving to equalizing access
to education is therefore strong on both
equity and efficiency grounds, especially for
basic education. Beyond basic education,
there is an important efficiency rationale for
ensuring that the most talented and productive people in society have access to higher
education. In today’s globalized world, with
competition largely on the basis of skills and
ideas, countries need to cultivate latent talent,
wherever it may reside. Motivated and talented children from poorer households
deserve the opportunity to excel as much as
their wealthier peers. While we acknowledge
the important equity dimension of policies
for tertiary education, the discussion here is
devoted primarily to policies that expand
access to and quality of basic education.
We argue that there is a case for public
action to enhance equity in learning so that
outcomes reflect not merely circumstances
of luck—parental endowments, sociocultural
environment, birth place, one dedicated
teacher—but genuine differences in preferences, effort, and talent consistent with the
notion of equal opportunities. This requires
expanding affordable access and upgrading
quality, with a particular focus on excluded
groups, through various interventions that
increase both the demand for schooling and
the capacity and incentives of the school system to respond.
There are clear complementarities in this
approach: quality improvements help only if
children are in school, but they also influence

the probability of their attendance. Even
uneducated parents will pull their children
out of school if they perceive low quality.19
There may be tradeoffs, however, if resources
devoted to upgrading quality benefit primarily the privileged who are already in school
at the expense of reaching excluded groups
or areas—or if the rapid expansion of access
reduces the quality of instruction. While the
long-run objective for school systems
around the world is clear, priorities will vary
by country, region, or group.

Expanding access, particularly
for excluded groups
Expanding access for all. More than 100
million children of primary school age are
out of school, either because they never
entered the system or because they dropped
out before finishing.20 As a result, some 52
countries risk not reaching the goal of universal primary completion.21 In most countries, improving opportunities in education
means ensuring affordable access, especially
for poor rural children and disadvantaged
groups.
Higher public spending on the supply of
schools is one way to expand access. Analysis of the determinants of school enrollment in various countries suggests that
proximity to schools is a major factor.22 A
careful evaluation of Indonesia’s school
construction program in the 1970s, the
largest such program on record, finds evidence of significant increases in both education and earnings.23 The program yields
large positive returns, but it takes more than
30 years to do so because upfront construction costs are high (more than 2 percent of
Indonesia’s GDP in 1973), while the benefits are spread over a generation’s lifetime.
But for every success story there are many
others in which higher spending has not
translated into better access to infrastructure,
inputs, and instruction for children. In many
cases, the resources are not used effectively—
too much is spent on teacher salaries or
reducing class size and not enough is spent
on instructional materials.
Incidence studies suggest that the poor
stand to benefit more from expansion when
mean levels of access to services are already
reasonably high, now the case for primary

Human capacities

schooling, even in many low-income countries. But spending alone is clearly not
enough to get the children in school (and
even less effective in ensuring that they
learn). In many countries, the main problem is not facilities but children dropping
out or not attending available schools.24
Recent efforts to boost access thus focus on
demand-side interventions: reducing the
cost of schooling or providing incentives,
even paying for attendance.
In many countries, parents have to pay a
lot, either for school fees or for other inputs,
such as uniforms and textbooks. Eliminating these costs can boost participation. Free
uniforms and textbooks provided by an
NGO program in Kenya (along with better
classrooms) reduced dropout rates considerably: after five years, students in the program completed about 15 percent more
schooling. In addition many students from
nearby schools transferred to program
schools to take advantage of the benefits.
The result was a 50 percent increase in class
size—an increase that does not appear to
have deterred parents nor has it led to a
measurable negative impact on test scores.
This is at least suggestive that a reallocation
of the education budget—larger class size
with the savings used to pay for the inputs
under the program—could raise school
participation at no cost to quality.25
Eliminating user fees for basic schools
has also been shown to boost student
enrollment, but quality may be compromised if reliable alternative sources of
financing are not available to schools (box
7.2). In both Tanzania and Uganda, eliminating school fees became an important
political issue when the population could
voice its discontent, helped by the democratic process, an active civil society, and (in
Tanzania) the Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper process.
In some cases, there may be a need to go
beyond removing the direct financial costs
of schooling to induce poor parents to enroll
their children. This could be accomplished
by providing CCTs and free meals. CCT programs make payments to poor families, typically mothers, on the condition that children attend school regularly. The programs
can be seen as compensating for the oppor-

BOX 7.2

137

School fees—an instrument of exclusion
or accountability?

There are two schools of thought about
school fees. Some claim that school fees
deter poor families from sending their kids
to school. Even nominally small amounts can
be a large share of poor households’ income,
and these come on top of the forgone benefits of children contributing to family business or household chores. Schooling costs
often figure in parents’ responses about constraint to enrollment, and eliminating school
fees appears to have spurred a large
increase in enrollments in a number of
countries, including Kenya,Tanzania,
Uganda, and Vietnam. Others see user fees
as an important accountability tool, a mechanism for empowering parents to demand

quality services from the schools, and point
to studies that show even poor households’
willingness to pay for good quality services.
Sympathetic to the arguments in favor
of greater accountability, we argue for eliminating user fees when the fiscal impact of
forgone revenues can be managed without
large efficiency costs or harmful spending
cuts.The desirable voice and accountability
aspects of school fees can be harnessed
equally or better through contributing
labor for school improvements or working
on parent-teacher advisory committees.
Such in-kind fees are cheaper to the parent
and engage the parent more fully in school
decision making.

tunity cost of schooling for poor families
and represent one approach to addressing
failures in credit markets and the imperfect
agency of parents. Many of the cash-forschool-attendance programs are large, representing significant commitments of public
resources. The biggest are Oportunidades
(previously PROGRESA) in Mexico, the
Bolsa Escola in Brazil, and the Food for Education Program in Bangladesh.26
The budgets allocated to these programs
are between just under 1 percent of total
government current expenditure in Brazil
and more than 5 percent in Bangladesh.
These significant, but not prohibitive, sums
could be generated from savings on other
expenditures, such as regressive subsidies
for public services, including tertiary education. A question remains about how costeffective the programs are in expanding
education: the answer depends on how successful they are in reaching households that
would not have participated in the school
system without the transfers.
A careful evaluation of PROGRESA
found an average increase in enrollment of
3.4 percent for all students in grades one
through eight, with the largest increase
(14.8 percent) for girls who had completed
grade six.27 Morley and Coady (2003) estimate an internal rate of return (taking into
account the cost of grants) for the program
of 8 percent a year and report that the
transfers are 10 times more cost-effective

138

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

than building schools. But De Janvry and
Sadoulet (2004) find that most program
benefits are received by those who would
have gone to school anyway. They suggest
calibrating transfers to increase program
efficiency—for example, through larger
transfers to the eldest child, to children with
an indigenous father, or to children, especially girls, living in villages without a secondary school.
Reaching excluded groups. Schools with
adequate supplies and well-trained and
motivated teachers, who are accountable for
the learning they produce, are good for
everyone. But additional support may be
necessary to improve access for excluded
groups, such as disabled children, girls, and
indigenous groups.
Including disabled children is possible at
relatively modest costs. In Uruguay, grants
of up to $3,000 are awarded for schools that

BOX 7.3

Desegregating Roma schools in Bulgaria:
the Vidin model

In Vidin, the Open Society Institute and the
Roma NGO known by the initials DROM
have been collaborating to integrate Roma
students into the mainstream school
system. Vidin is a town of 85,000 in northwest Bulgaria, and 6 percent of its population was identified as Roma in the 1992 census. In the 2000–01 school year, 460 Roma
students, or half the school-age students,
were enrolled in the mainstream school system. Students are bused from the
settlement to school and back. And Roma
monitors interact with parents and the
school to encourage attendance. Lowincome students also receive shoes and
school lunches, with lunches given on the
bus to reduce the stigma of receiving it at
school.
While preparing the program, DROM
went door-to-door in the Roma settlement
and sought the support of the schools, the
mayor, and the media.The project eventually gained the support of all the stakeholders except the mayor, who nevertheless
agreed not to block it. DROM invited the six
mainstream schools in Vidin to present the
program, philosophy, and teachers on television. Roma parents then selected a school
for their children.This marked the first time
that their views had been solicited by the
authorities.

At the end of the first semester, attendance was 100 percent, and first-term finalgrade averages were identical to those of
non-Roma pupils. Parents and teachers
were satisfied, especially with the absence
of reported incidents of anti-Roma
prejudice. Education authorities were
encouraged to scale up in other cities. In
addition, 35 Roma parents of the bused children returned to school in adult education
programs, and three teenagers who had
dropped out in the third grade asked to join
the program, prompting teachers to work
extra hours with them. On the negative side,
24 pupils received failing grades in one or
more subjects, and three left the program.
The success is attributable to three
major factors. First, parents feel that their
children are protected from prejudice
because they are bused and monitored
throughout the day by adult Roma. Second,
Roma monitors in the schools assure that
the children are not mistreated, encourage
parental engagement and student participation in extracurricular activities, and help
the teachers ease cultural differences.Third,
the children are happy to be in schools
where real learning takes place.

Source: Ringold, Orenstein, and Wilkens (2005).

put forward proposals for reaching disabled
children. In the two years since the fund was
set up, 6 percent of all schools in Uruguay
have been awarded grants to cover expenses
to adapt school materials, equipment, and
infrastructure and to train teachers in
appropriate pedagogical approaches.
Improving gender equity in access to
schooling often requires making special
provisions for girls, especially older girls.28
Specific grants for girls have been effective
in Bangladesh and Mexico. Private latrines
for girls are essential. Other structural
improvements including boundary walls,
flexible or double sessions when sharing a
facility with boys, and perhaps even genderspecific schools may allay parents’ concerns
about girls’ privacy and safety. It is important for schools to undermine, not underscore, stereotypes and unequal treatment of
women—and to be wary of giving boys
more resources, leadership, and attention.
Female teachers are good role models for
boys and girls, and even young women can
be effective teachers with training, support,
and a programmed curriculum. Governments might consider setting national goals
for hiring women and being flexible with
age and education requirements for female
teachers (while still providing adequate inservice training).29
To expand access for ethnic groups, teachers or teacher aides from the target ethnic
group are particularly helpful in their ability
to connect with the students as powerful role
models. Bilingual schools have also been
effective. In Mali, bilingual programs were
associated with large declines in dropout and
repetition, and rural students outscored
urban children. In Mexico, geographic targeting under PROGRESA (now Oportunidades)
led to the relatively high participation of
indigenous people (but not those in the most
remote areas without schools).30 An innovative approach to encourage the attendance of
Roma children in Vidin, Bulgaria, appears to
have paid off (box 7.3).

Upgrading quality
Better quality for all. Expanding access to
basic education is necessary but not enough;
the quality of education matters for opportunities. But even children in middle-

Human capacities

income countries do a lot worse than the
average OECD kid on international tests of
learning achievement, suggesting that much
of the learning in schools does not prepare
children to be productive adults, let alone
for the rigors of competition they will face
in the global labor market.31 The quality
deficit is undoubtedly greater for children
from poorer families, because the better-off
children can go to better public schools or
leave the public system and opt for private
schooling.
Based on the results of a standardized
international achievement test—the Third
International Mathematics and Science Study
(TIMSS)—Pritchett (2004a) estimates that
the overwhelming majority of children ages
15 to 19 lacks education (not completing
grade nine or performing poorly in the
TIMSS) in five middle-income countries
with data (figure 7.4).32 But the enrollment
problem remains large only in Morocco.
Indonesia and Turkey have difficulty retaining kids in secondary school; in Colombia,
Morocco, and the Philippines, three of four
children who have completed grade nine
have failed to learn enough.
How can countries improve basic learning
outcomes for all? We know broadly from a
large number of studies that have tried to
account for the “production” of schooling
outcomes that higher public spending does
not always translate into better student learning.33 A recent study analyzing the determinants of student performance on the
TIMSS—using data for more than 260,000
students from 6,000 schools in 39 countries—
finds that education spending (spending per
student, class size, student-teacher ratio) at
either the school or country level has no positive impact on student performance. Among
factors at the school level, the only ones that
have a significant impact on student performance are instructional material and teachers
with an adequate formal education.34
These results are confirmed by several
careful microlevel studies. Since 1996, a
group of researchers working with a Dutch
NGO, International Chirstelijk Steunfonds
Africa, has been involved in the design and
evaluation of a series of randomized experiments to improve learning outcomes in the
Busia district in rural Kenya. The results

Figure 7.4 Boosting enrollments is not enough to
overcome the learning gap
As a fraction of cohort
Completed grade 9 but did poorly on tests
Dropped out before completing grade 9
Dropped out before completing grade 5
Never enrolled
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
Colombia Indonesia Morocco Philippines Turkey
Source: Reproduced from Pritchett (2004a).
a. Based on TIMSS-R scores for eighth graders on mathematics in
1999. To calculate the fraction of students with scores below 400—
one standard deviation (100 points) below the OECD median of
500)—Pritchett uses the country mean and standard deviation and
assumes a normal distribution. This assumes that scores are
roughly constant over time so the 1999 test represents the cohort
ages 15–19 in the survey year, and that eighth- and ninth-grade
competencies would be roughly similar.

indicate that increased availability of textbooks helps improve test scores, but only
among the better-performing students, and
that performance-based prizes for teachers
increased test scores initially, but the gains
dissipated later. What did work in raising
test scores were merit scholarships for 13to 15-year-old girls—with positive effects
also on learning for boys, who were ineligible, and girls with low pretest scores, who
were unlikely to win the scholarships. The
scholarships were the most cost-effective of
all the interventions tested, achieving the
same learning results at less than 20 percent
of the cost of textbook provision.35
The results underscore the importance of
combining additional spending (of the right
kind) with interventions that strengthen
incentives to teach and to learn. As the teacher
incentive program shows, project design—in
this case, the behavior rewarded—matters.36
Better quality for the most disadvantaged.
Many of the programs just discussed focus
on improving performance at the school

139

140

BOX 7.4

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Remedying education:
the Balsakhi program in India

The Balsakhi program is a large remedial
education program now implemented in 20
Indian cities by an NGO—Pratham—in collaboration with the government. Pratham
hires young women from the community to
teach basic literacy and numeracy skills to
children who reach the third or fourth
grade without having mastered them. Students are pulled out of regular classes for
two hours of the school day for the remedial education.The program is inexpensive:
$5 per child per year. Easily replicable, it has
been scaled up rapidly since its inception in
Mumbai in 1994, now reaching tens of
thousands of students in the 20 cities.
A recent two-year randomized evaluation in Mumbai and Vadodara finds that the

program has highly significant positive
results on student learning. On average, the
program increased learning by 0.15
standard deviations in the first year and
0.25 in the second year.The gains were
largest for children at the bottom of the distribution, with those in the bottom third
gaining 0.20 deviations in the first year, and
0.32 in the second year (0.51 for math
alone).The results were similar in the two
grade levels and in the two cities. At the
margin, extending this program would be
12 to 16 times more effective than hiring
new teachers.

Source: Banerjee and others (2004).

level. What about improving learning outcomes for disadvantaged or poorly performing students? The merit scholarship
program for 13- to 15-year-old girls in
rural Kenya mentioned earlier is one such
example. The Balsakhi program in India—
a large remedial education program—represents another highly successful and costeffective approach to giving poorly
performing students a leg up (box 7.4).
Because children with the lowest ability
registered the largest gains in test scores,
the program had an equalizing effect on
student achievement.
Many countries group students together
by similar abilities on efficiency grounds.
However, recent findings in 18 to 26 countries show that such tracking increases education inequality, possibly by reinforcing
the effects of family background, but it
does not contribute to higher mean levels
of performance.37
Another option to improve learning outcomes for disadvantaged children is to provide school vouchers. There is significant
controversy around the equity and efficiency
impacts of generalized voucher schemes (box
7.5). Targeted means-tested voucher programs may be more promising.38 Results
from one such scheme in Colombia are
encouraging. The PACES program provided
more than 125,000 students from poor
neighborhoods with vouchers that covered

about half the cost of private secondary
schools; vouchers could be renewed as long as
students maintained satisfactory academic
performance. An evaluation of this randomized natural experiment (vouchers were
awarded by lottery) found lower repetition
rates and higher test results among voucher
winners.39 But targeted voucher schemes may
be politically difficult to implement—and the
Colombia program was discontinued.

Strengthening accountability
Dismal learning outcomes in many countries are due to the combination of inadequate resources and the low responsiveness
and accountability of school systems.
Efforts to improve school performance will
therefore need to focus on strengthening
accountability processes: achieving societal
consensus on expanding education, dealing
with capture by vested interests, and tackling
the weak incentives for service providers to
raise the quality of learning.
Achieving societal consensus on expanding education helps tackle the pathology of
elite capture, whereby the wealthy oppose
increased spending in public education. Historically, expansion of voice in a country has
led to wider access and quality improvements in basic education, notably in Europe
and North America.43 Democratic transitions have spurred recent expansions in basic
education also in Brazil, Guatemala, and
Uganda.44 But these are long-term processes,
and it is essential to make progress now
toward meeting the urgent needs of millions
of children around the world.
Some progress can be made by countering the stranglehold of interest groups on
equity-enhancing reforms, such as when
teachers unions block reforms that would
strengthen the link between performance
and accountability.45 Significant payoffs
can come from systemic reforms that
strengthen accountability from clients
directly to frontline providers.46 The most
crucial steps in any such reform are to
increase the schools’ accountability for performance and to ensure the availability of
relevant information to monitor their performance. Accountability for performance
also requires autonomy to manage results.
This means delegating responsibility and

Human capacities

BOX 7.5

School vouchers: efficient and equitable?

School voucher programs increase the power of
parents to choose schools for their children. Parents are given a voucher by the government,
which (at least in theory) can be applied to the
school of their choice, public or private.The
expectation is that competition among schools
and the availability of public resources to access
private schools would improve the overall efficiency of the school system and student
achievement. But research into the impacts of
vouchers has not produced definitive or generalizable results—in large part because of
methodological challenges and the differences
in the specific design and institutional context
of various reforms. Design can vary according to
the size of the voucher, the pool of eligible students, whether schools can charge more than
the value of the voucher, and regulations governing school choice (such as whether or not
religious schools are eligible). Institutional management, bureaucratic control, governance of
public schools, and oversight of eligible private
schools also vary and influence the results of
programs.40
Chile has more than 20 years of experience
with large voucher programs.Yet detailed analysis on the effects of competition on school quality in Chile has not led to a consensus on
impact. In the United States, one study found
that competition improved achievement in the
city of Milwaukee, while another found no
impact. Similar variance is found in the related
literature on the impact of school choice.41
Competition between schools and school

choice imply that weak public schools will lose
students and could be forced to close. Successful schools would have to be enlarged, or new—
and presumably more effective—schools would
have to be built. Such institutional change presents significant political, technical, and administrative hurdles.The hurdles are particularly
acute under a universal voucher program that
enables large student migration.
Solid evidence on productivity differences
between public and private schools is also lacking. Again consider Chile, whose voucher program generated a large number of new secular
private schools that operated alongside more
established Catholic schools. An analysis of
Chilean fourth-grade achievement data showed
that Catholic schools had higher achievement
than public schools in math and Spanish, while
secular private schools had lower achievement.
Another study found that unrestricted nationwide school choice in Chile resulted in middleclass flight into private schools, but without
achievement gains.42
Evidence on peer effects that could influence student achievement is equally inconclusive. It is not clear whether peer effects are linear, meaning that gains for students who move
to a higher-quality peer group are offset by
losses for either their new or old classmates—
or nonlinear, meaning, for instance, that positive peer effects can disproportionately benefit
students with low socioeconomic status.
While impacts on efficiency are ambiguous,
there are reasons to be cautious about the

power for decision making to the lowest
feasible level consistent with incentives.47
Once the responsibilities of the school
system are well defined, the resources and
decision-making powers of providers are
consistent with their responsibilities, and
information is available to track performance, various mechanisms become available to pressure schools to deliver better
performance. School autonomy, community control, nongovernment providers,
voucher programs, and public sector
reforms can strengthen the ability of citizens, communities, and public organizations to hold schools accountable for delivering results.48 El Salvador’s experience
with rebuilding much of its education system following the destructive civil war of
the 1980s is a good example of what can be
accomplished through partnership with

equity effects of universal voucher programs.
They could lead to increased racial and socioeconomic stratification of schools as parents seek
to improve the quality of their children’s peers
(such as middle-class flight in Chile). Such stratification could occur if all parents were given
vouchers but low-income families were in a less
favorable position to exercise choice because of
lack of information, prohibitive transportation
costs, or extra fees. Disadvantaged students
would simply be more concentrated in lowquality schools. Echoing similar concerns, a
recent study concludes that, in the United
States,“a large-scale universal voucher program
would not generate substantial gains in overall
student achievement and ... it could well be
detrimental to many disadvantaged students”
(Ladd 2002, 4).
There are ways to make voucher programs
more beneficial for disadvantaged students, but
these may reduce political support for such programs. For instance, vouchers and school choice
can be limited to low-income families. Program
design can also be enhanced by providing
transportation to school, requiring that schools
do not charge extra tuition or fees on top of the
voucher, and requiring oversubscribed schools
to select students randomly. Irrespective of
design specifics, a voucher program needs to be
embedded in a larger strategy of education
reform that improves the overall institutional
incentive environment for schools and gives
underperforming schools the instruments and
resources to improve.

local communities. As a result of greater
parental involvement, Educo schools had
rapid enrollment increases without giving
up quality, reduced absenteeism among
teachers and students, and increased math
and language scores.

Toward better health for all
The large inequalities in health care use
and health outcomes in many developing
countries do not just reflect different preferences or needs—they arise from constraints on the ability of individuals to
achieve good health (chapter 2). Income is
one important constraint, especially given
incomplete financial markets. Low-income
people around the world have worse health
and use fewer health services (chapter 2).
Ethnicity, race, and location also influence

141

142

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

outcomes. Infant mortality rates among
blacks in South Africa are 5.5 times higher
than those among whites; life expectancy
among the rural Chinese is almost 6 years
lower than among urban dwellers, while the
life expectancy gap between China’s richest
and poorest provinces (Beijing and
Guizhou) is 10 years.49
These stark differences in outcomes and
use reflect large group-based inequalities in
access to information, facilities with reasonable standards of care and financial
protection from health risk. A lack of
knowledge about hygiene, nutrition, available services, and treatment options, particularly among the uneducated, lowers
demand for health services. Within the
household, some family members have less
voice (women and children) and this can
affect the level of resources used in their
interest. Health clinics, especially in poor
and remote areas, are often inaccessible,
have high rates of absenteeism and low quality and responsiveness to clients. Finally, illness is certainly a burden on poor people,
but catastrophic health shocks can also
have disastrous consequences for the not so
poor, mainly through loss of income but
also through high out-of-pocket payments
for health care.
These large group disparities in health
outcomes are inequitable, because they
imply vastly different opportunities to lead
productive lives. And because they often
arise from failures in markets and agency,
reducing these disparities would have large
payoffs in efficiency and productivity. We
focus here on ways to level the playing field
for attaining good health by boosting people’s knowledge about basic health practices
and services, expanding their access to

BOX 7.6

Working with mothers to treat malaria

Malaria kills nearly 1 million children in
Africa each year. Empowering mothers to
take actions to treat their children in the
home can be highly effective in reducing
mortality.The Tigray region of Ethiopia
trained “mother coordinators,” who were
selected from among the community to
educate other mothers on the symptoms of
fever and malaria. Mothers were provided

chloroquine and information on how to
administer the drug at a cost of $0.08 per
child treatment dose. By educating mothers,
Tigray provided rapid and effective
treatment without forcing the child to relocate, which reduced under-five mortality by
40 percent and alleviated the burden of
severe malaria cases on hospitals.
Source: World Bank (2004k).

affordable care, and enhancing the accountability of providers.

Expanding knowledge
Underinvestments in health by patients
may reflect a lack of knowledge and agency
and incentive issues within the household,
as well as a lack of these resources. Lack of
knowledge can keep people from seeking
care when they need it, even when price is
not an issue. As chapter 5 showed, when
deworming medicine was offered free to
children in Kenya, the take-up rate was only
57 percent. Similarly, in Bolivia, many poor
babies are not delivered by a trained attendant even though mothers are eligible for
free care. In India, 60 percent of children
have not been fully immunized, although
immunization is free; mothers cited ignorance of the benefits of vaccination and not
knowing the clinic locations as the major
reasons for why their children had not been
immunized.
Lack of knowledge can also lead people
to pay for inappropriate care. Unqualified or
unethical providers can overprescribe treatments for patients who do not know what is
in their best interest. For instance, instead of
effective and inexpensive oral rehydration
therapy, a poor child in Indonesia gets more
than four (often useless) drugs per diarrhea
attack.50
Education is a natural way to address the
lack of patient knowledge. Elo and Preston
(1996) estimate that one year of extra education nationally reduces mortality rates by
about 8 percent—half directly and half
through the effects of additional earnings.
Female education is particularly powerful.
Better-educated mothers are associated with
better child-health practices, including hand
washing, proper disposal of feces, antenatal
care, delivery assistance by trained personnel, immunization, and well-baby clinics.
Community health agents also provide
cost-effective instruction in disease prevention and healthy behavior. By employing
these nonspecialized personnel, many countries have increased knowledge among the
general public at low cost, as with Brazil’s
Family Health Program and Ethiopia’s
“mother coordinators,” supporting homebased malaria treatment (box 7.6). Com-

Human capacities

munity health workers have also helped
increase coverage of poor populations costeffectively.
Public information campaigns can improve health knowledge by working through
existing health clinics or by directly targeting
the community. It is also possible to collaborate with the private sector in marketing
socially valuable products, such as insecticidetreated mosquito nets, water purification
methods, foods rich in vitamin A, and
soap—as with the Central American HandWashing Initiative in Costa Rica, El Salvador, and Guatemala.51 Media campaigns
can also be effective. For instance, frequent
broadcasts of AIDS messages in Thailand,
Uganda, and Brazil were a key element in the
campaign to reduce the spread of the disease. The Thai media campaign is credited
with reducing the incidence of AIDS to a
point at which the country is now able to
consider a fiscally viable treatment program
for AIDS patients.52
But neither information nor free services
may be enough to boost use among the less
empowered or those without voice. Maternal and child health is often viewed as meriting additional intervention. Through conditional transfers, Mexico’s PROGRESA (now
Oportunidades) program was designed to
encourage women to attend pre- and postnatal clinical visits and bring their children
for immunization and growth monitoring.
The program saw an 8 percent increase in
clinic visits by pregnant women in their first
trimester, which led to a 25 percent drop in
the incidence of illness in newborns and a 16
percent increase in the annual growth rate of
children between one and three. An important design feature of the program is transferring funds to women. Although the program puts more demands on mothers’ time,
participants felt that the benefits were worth
it. Women also reported feeling more selfconfident and having more control over
household resources and their time and
travel. Similar schemes are delivering maternal and child care services in Brazil, Colombia, and Nicaragua.53

Expanding access
Access to quality health facilities remains a
problem in many areas, often imposing a

greater burden on rural dwellers through
additional travel time and hospice costs.
City dwellers are within easier reach of
health centers. In Burundi, 98 percent of the
urban population was within one hour of a
health center, but only 65 percent of the
rural population was. Even within rural
areas, there is large variation. Only half of
the poorest rural Nigerians were within an
hour of a clinic, but 84 percent of the richest were.
Even when health facilities are accessible,
they vary hugely in quality. Some have medicines and drugs in stock, are run by welltrained and motivated staff, and are well
maintained. But many are not. They are
often dilapidated, rarely have medicines in
stock, and are run by poorly trained and
rude medical staff, who frequently fail to
come to work. It is often precisely the people who are materially disadvantaged who
also have to struggle with poor quality and

BOX 7.7

Poor people and ethnic minorities
receive lower-quality care

New studies from India, Indonesia, Mexico,
and Tanzania demonstrate that the poor systematically receive lower-quality care from
private and public providers.54 The situation is
often worse for ethnic minorities. Evidence
from Mexico suggests that, even in poor rural
villages, there is a difference in the quality of
care between wealthy and poor and between
indigenous and nonindigenous groups.
Among the poorest fifth of the population in

Mexico, indigenous women receive prenatal
care from doctors who rank only in the
twenty-fifth percentile in quality, while
equally poor nonindigenous women receive
care ranking in the fortieth percentile.The
wealthiest fifth fare much better, but even
among the wealthy, the indigenous receive
worse care than the nonindigenous, suggesting that discriminatory practices or cultural
barriers may be at play (see figure below).

Indigenous Mexicans receive lower-quality care, regardless of income
Doctor quality (percentile)
70
Nonindigenous

60

Indigenous

50
40
30
20
10
0
Poorest
quintile

Second
quintile

Average

Source: Barber, Bertozzi, and Gertler (2005).

Fourth
quintile

Wealthiest
quintile

143

144

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

inaccessible health facilities. Ethnic minorities often fare even worse in terms of the
quality of health care received (box 7.7).
An important obstacle to the provision of
equitable health services everywhere is the
difficulty of enticing urban-educated doctors
to work in poor areas. Chile, Mexico, and
Thailand have used financial and other
incentives to encourage qualified staff to
work in rural areas.55 In Indonesia, doctors
had to complete compulsory service in health
centers before they could obtain a lucrative
civil service post. Compulsory service was for
five years, with shorter periods allowed for
work in remote provinces. This system
increased the number of doctors in health
centers by an average of 97 percent from 1985
to 1994, with gains of more than 200 percent
for the most remote provinces.56
Expanding rural health infrastructure
and providing incentives to doctors to work

BOX 7.8

Better maternal health in Malaysia
and Sri Lanka

Despite huge improvements in health, survival, and fertility around the world in recent
decades, global maternal mortality has not
declined significantly.Two exceptions are Sri
Lanka and Malaysia. In Sri Lanka the maternal mortality ratio—the number of maternal
deaths per 100,000 live births—dropped
from 2,136 in 1930 to 24 in 1996. In Malaysia
it dropped from 1,085 in 1933 to just 19 in
1997.What can account for this impressive
decline? Improving access for rural and disadvantaged communities was an important
part of the strategy in both countries.
Sri Lanka and Malaysia made
competent, professional midwives and
supervisory nurse-midwives widely
available in rural areas. Midwives assisted
deliveries in homes and small rural hospitals
and performed initial treatment in the
event of complications.They were given a
steady supply of appropriate drugs and
equipment and supported by improved
communication, transportation, and backup services. Besides reducing financial and
geographic barriers, they also helped overcome cultural obstacles and allegiances to
traditional practices. Because midwives
were available locally and were well
respected, they developed links with communities and partnerships with traditional
birth attendants.
Malaysia and Sri Lanka pursued other
complementary strategies.Transportation

(in Malaysia) and transportation subsidies
(in Sri Lanka) were provided for emergency
visits to the hospital. In Malaysia, health programs were part of integrated rural development efforts that included investment in
clinics, rural roads, and rural schools. Similarly, in Sri Lanka, the government invested
in free primary and secondary education,
free health care, and food subsidies for all
districts.The concept was that basic health
care acts in synergy with education and
other types of infrastructure. For example,
better roads make it easier to get to rural
health facilities and facilitate transportation
of obstetric emergencies. By addressing the
multidimensionality of equity, these countries made significant health gains.
Dramatic improvements in maternal
mortality are thus possible. Just as important, the experiences of Malaysia and Sri
Lanka show that these can be attained with
only modest expenditures. Since the 1950s,
public expenditures on health services have
hovered between 1.4 and 1.8 percent of
GDP in Malaysia and averaged 1.8 percent
in Sri Lanka, with spending on maternal and
child health (MCH) services amounting to
less than 0.4 percent of GDP in both countries. Countries with similar income levels
have significantly higher health
expenditures and similar, if not higher,
maternal mortality ratios.
Source: Pathmanathan and others (2003).

in poor areas may not be affordable for many
poor countries. But there are other
approaches to reducing the indirect costs
(for transport and time spent in transit) and
the medical isolation of poor communities.
Roving extension clinics visit sparsely populated areas in Afghanistan, Somalia, and
Tunisia to provide care locally and offer
transportation to better-equipped facilities
when required. Bangladesh, Cuba, Gambia,
India, and Madagascar have trained community health workers to scale up service delivery for a wide range of services, including
malaria prevention, immunizations, family
planning, treatment of TB patients, home
visits, and neonatal care. The results have
often yielded a substantial increase in coverage and measurable improvements in outcomes at much lower unit costs. Through a
village health worker program that monitored infants’ weight and health for the first
month of life, rural infant mortality in
Maharasthra, India, was cut in half from 75.5
to 38.8 per 1,000 live births between 1995
and 1998.57
Other outreach programs focus on
maternal health and safe delivery. By making professional midwives and supervisory
nurse-midwives widely available in rural
areas, Malaysia and Sri Lanka dramatically
reduced maternal mortality rates (box 7.8).
In Bolivia, expectant mothers with high
obstetric risk are transported to larger clinics a few days before their due date; in Sri
Lanka, they are picked up by radiodispatched four-wheel-drive vehicles.

Financing affordable care
For consumers, health care finance systems
have two goals: affordable access to a basic
package, and financial protection in the
event of catastrophic illness costs. The classic case for government intervention (public subsidies) is when the full benefit of a
“treatment” accrues not just to the individual but also spills over to the community
more broadly. Interventions to avoid the
spread of malaria fall into this category. A
bed-net distribution program—involving
the Red Cross and national ministries of
health—increased use among the poorest
quintile from 3 percent to nearly 60 percent
in a northern district of Ghana and from 18

Human capacities

percent to 82 percent in five rural Zambian
districts.58 Immunizations, vector control,
and interventions for tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS,
and other communicable diseases are similarly deserving.
But the case for government intervention goes beyond these well-accepted public
health reasons: inequality in access to financial protection from health risk based on
wealth, ethnicity, and location provides
another important rationale. Out-of-pocket
payments are the dominant form of health
care finance in lower-income countries. But
liquidity constraints and imperfect credit
markets often make out-of-pocket payments more difficult for the poor, reducing
their use rates, and health and productivity.
In Vietnam in 1998, before the establishment of health insurance, 30 percent of
poor households’ nonfood budget went to
medical costs, while only 15 percent of
spending for the richest fifth of the population was health related. In Cambodia, a single hospital stay absorbed 88 percent of an
average household’s nonfood consumption
in 1997 and, for the poorest among them,
the cost was higher than the entire nonfood
budget. In the transition economies of
Europe and Central Asia, with the collapse
of prepayment in the 1990s, out-of-pocket
spending skyrocketed, accounting for as
much as 80 percent of health resources in
Georgia and Azerbaijan. In Armenia, 91
percent of patients reported having to make
some payment for service received.59 While
health care use has plummeted in the
region, the collapse of prepayment especially hurts poor people.
The regressive nature of out-of-pocket
payments is well understood, but there are
no easy answers, especially in low-income
countries. Given the small formal sector
and limited administrative capacity, these
low-income countries have limited capacity
to mobilize resources to pay for essential
health services and to establish large
enough risk pools. So, developing countries
face a difficult tradeoff between providing a
basic package of health services and extending financial protection.60 Some evidence
suggests that the poor are better able to
cover low-cost, high-frequency health
shocks than low-frequency, high-cost

events.61 If so, poor people may be better
served by having protection against these
low-risk, high-cost events through some
type of pooling mechanism. It is no easy
task, however, to cover catastrophic health
risks in ways that reach the poor.
Reducing out-of-pocket costs involves a
combination of pooling health risks and prepayment—through contributory insurance
schemes, national health services that are
funded out of general revenues, or a mix of
the two. In all instances, reaching the poor
requires some means of subsidizing their
health care costs, so fiscal room and political
commitment are crucial. In very low-income
countries, community insurance schemes,
sometimes supplemented through NGO or
donor funding, can provide some protection
to some people, but generally these services
do not reach the poorest.
Contributory schemes—private or social—
operate best where the share of the formal
labor market is high and administrative
capacity is strong. And because premiums
and copayments can be unaffordably high,
purely contributory schemes generally bypass
the poor. Private insurance is a significant
part of health finance systems in Brazil,
Chile, Namibia, South Africa, the United
States, Uruguay, and Zimbabwe. But in all
seven countries, private insurance is used by
formal sector workers, leaving the ministries
of health to provide public funds for programs for the poor and underserved.62
Social insurance is characterized by
compulsory coverage financed by employment taxes. Benefits are often limited to contributors, and providers are often from the
public sector even when private providers
are eligible. Social insurance has the appeal
of generating a large risk-sharing pool and
can, in principle, reach the poor through
cross-subsidization. But, when the formal
sector is small this potential is limited,
because of the difficulties of enrolling a large
enough share of the population. This can
turn the system into a ticket to privileged
access to health services for some, while
leaving the bulk of the population underserved. For example, in Mexico, social security health spending per person is five times
higher than what the Ministry of Health
spends per person.63 And, the payroll tax

145

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

146

required for social insurance introduces
labor market distortions, especially in settings characterized by dual labor markets.
The challenges from both an equity and
efficiency perspective are enormous, but a
handful of mainly middle-income countries
have made important attempts to make
social insurance systems work. Colombia, for
example, has a cross-subsidization scheme
for the poor, topped up by general revenues.
The scheme has delivered considerable benefits: higher coverage among the poor (48
percent, up from 9 percent, in 10 years);
lower out-of-pocket costs for ambulatory
care; large increases in physician-assisted
delivery (by 66 percent) and prenatal care
among rural women (by 48 percent); and
lower child mortality rates (from 44 per

BOX 7.9

Mobilizing support for universal coverage
in Thailand

With the introduction of the universal coverage scheme in 2002, almost the entire Thai
population now has health coverage (box
figure 1).This was possible largely because
the democratic transition of 1997 ushered in
a period of increased voice and openness
and raised the political profile of poor people’s concerns.Technical preparation—with
design details that had been under consideration and subject to experimentation for
some time—also helped to garner support
for the reform, while prior investments in
health care infrastructure, establishing a
health center in nearly every rural subdistrict, provided assurance of implementation
success.
Thailand’s increasing coverage
Uninsured
Private health insurance
Universal coverage scheme
Voluntary health card scheme
Medical welfare scheme
Social Security
Government/state enterprise
100%
75%
50%
25%
0%
1999

2002

2003

Years of corruption and political
inequity in the early 1990s, together with
the intervening period of military rule fueling social discontent, prepared the ground
for democratic reforms and a liberal constitution in 1997.Two provisions of the new
constitution were important for the ensuing
health sector reforms: the principle of
equity in health care access; and the scope
for civil society to propose national legislation affecting citizen rights and the role of
the state, if the measure had 50,000 signatures. In March 2000, nearly at the same
time that a feasibility study for the scheme
was completed, a network of 11 NGOs submitted to parliament a draft bill calling for
universal health care coverage. Between
1999 and 2001, the press also captured the
general public’s interest and kept the issue
on the political agenda by highlighting the
shortcomings of the current health system.
This political foment attracted the
attention of the opposition Thai Rak Thai
(TRT) party.TRT adopted the policy because
it was broadly supported, administratively
and technically feasible, and consistent with
the party’s ideology.TRT effectively turned
the 1997 financial crisis into an opportunity
by highlighting the health issues
precipitated by the crisis. Following its landslide victory in 2001, TRT introduced its own
universal coverage legislation, which passed
in November 2002.
Source: Pitayarangsarit (2004).

1,000 births to 15) among the insured. But
there are questions about the program’s
sustainability in the face of mounting fiscal
cost—reflecting the difficulty of systemic
reforms that threaten the privileges of
established interests, in this case, public
hospitals and the prereform social security
institution.64
Ministries of health in many developing
countries operate essentially as national
health services, with nationally owned health
sector inputs and funding from general tax
revenues. The systems they manage are often
inefficient and inequitable, reflecting severe
resource and institutional capacity constraints but also a bias in favor of the wealthy
and influential. Services are meant to cover
everyone, but high out-of-pocket payments
keep many poor people from participating.
Countries have tried various approaches to
improve equity in access to health care provided by the national health system, such as
eliminating user fees for all, waiving fees, or
giving vouchers to poor people.
In 2001, Uganda abolished user fees for
all. The result was a significant increase in
health care use, lower probability of sickness,
and better anthropometric measures, particularly for the poor.65 But the elimination of
user fees, if effective, can reduce the resources
for the health sector, and thus its quality,
unless budgetary funding is topped up to
make up for the shortfall. Uganda appears to
have avoided a fall in quality, thanks to a
large increase in the health budget that more
than compensated for the loss in revenues
from eliminating user charges.
Introduced in 2002, Thailand’s “30 baht”
or universal coverage scheme aims to guarantee health care to every Thai citizen. It combines previously existing schemes targeted to
the poor and uninsured, and allocates budgetary resources to providers on a capitation
basis, with only a small copayment per visit
(30 baht). The Ministry of Public Health
remains a strategic manager and central financier, but the district offices make the decisions on choice of providers. The scheme has
markedly increased use and coverage, with
roughly three-quarters of the country benefiting from the scheme and 95 percent of the
population insured overall, all at a limited
additional budgetary cost (box 7.9).

Human capacities

But there is broad agreement that existing capitation rates are too low and that the
system is underfunded. This provides limited incentives for private providers to participate and could lead to a financial
squeeze on public providers with adverse
impacts on quality.66 Higher use has also
put a strain on human resources, with
increased workloads (and low pay) accelerating the number of physicians leaving the
public system. Clearly supply-side measures
need to be considered in tandem with
health finance reforms to expand access.
Still, the achievements have been considerable, and the scheme has broad popular
support. Thailand implemented the reform
in large part thanks to the popular support
that democratic reforms made possible;
previous investments in sound design and
health infrastructure also helped.
Other countries reduce costs for the
poor through targeted programs funded
from general revenues. Armenia’s targeted
fee-waiver system curbed plummeting use
among the poor. But in many instances,
simple legislation of free or reduced-price
services can be counterproductive without
good funding and targeting. Targeted payments, through government vouchers and
civil society partnerships with hospitals, can
help. Vouchers issued to poor patients, as by
the MCH poverty alleviation fund in Yunnan Province in China, give providers a
greater assurance of payment. In Cambodia, a promising partnership has emerged
between government hospitals, Médecins
Sans Frontières (MSF) and a small local
NGO, covering the hospital fees of those
considered indigent by the local NGO’s
social workers. Because the hospital is fully
compensated, poor patients receive the
same care as those who can pay.67
Vietnam has introduced health cards for
the poor. More than 11 million of 14.3 million eligible people benefited from Vietnam’s program in its first year of implementation in 2002. The program has already
significantly increased the flow of government health funding to the poor and to predominantly poor areas of the country. The
funding per beneficiary, however, is considered inadequate and the cost-sharing
arrangements are likely to impose too large a

burden on populations in poorer or ethnic
minority regions.68
Many developing countries have a mixed
system, with ministries of health, private
insurance, social insurance, and targeted
schemes coexisting to serve different segments of the population. These multitrack
systems tend to fragment, increasing administrative costs, limiting pool sizes, and undermining both equity and efficiency objectives.
Chile’s two-track universal coverage system
has caused severe segmentation, with the
healthy and wealthy in the private scheme,
leaving the public scheme overburdened
with the poor and ill. Chile is trying to overcome this by creating a “virtual pool,” mandating a common basic benefits package,
instituting catastrophic insurance, allowing
portability of benefits between schemes, and
initiating minimum quality and maximum
wait-time standards.
Community-based health insurance (CBHI)
schemes have developed in some poor communities outside the reach of national
health systems. Communities pool health
risks through voluntary contributions to a
local fund used when any member incurs a
health shock. The schemes are reported to
reduce out-of-pocket spending and increase use by their members, but they generally do not reach the poorest and
socially excluded groups or offer members
enough protection from financial risk.
Many are limited by their small risk pools,
exposing them to low-frequency but highcost catastrophic events that can outstrip
the community fund. Some communities
address large health risks by increasing the
maximum benefit, as in Cameroon. But
they do so by limiting the number of family’s claims to one a year and by requiring
high premiums (which prohibit the poor
from participating).69
Insurance alone is not enough for equitable use. Inadequate knowledge of the
scheme’s benefits and processes and even the
paperwork for submitting claims to community insurance schemes can be a deterrent.
Hospitals often require payment on or
before discharge, but insurance claims are
not settled until later, requiring patients to
pay up front. India’s Self-Employed Women’s

147

148

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Association (SEWA) has been seeking to
remedy similar difficulties encountered in its
large and well-established CBHI scheme.
SEWA is testing door-to-door visits for
member education, reimbursement assurance with selected hospitals, and reimbursement to members while still in hospital.70

Enhancing provider incentives
Addressing knowledge, access and affordability constraints are important, but they
may not be enough to raise health use and
outcomes. Hours of operation, waiting time,
staff disposition, competence and integrity,
and the cultural appropriateness of services
are all important. Complaints of unprofessional treatment, abuse, and corruption
abound worldwide. Public medical staff
who take authorized or unauthorized leave
from public clinics undermine the credibility of the public health sector, drive up costs
for poor families, and induce the poor to use
private providers, including traditional healers. In Bangladesh, such absenteeism rates
amount to 40 percent for physicians in
larger clinics and 74 percent in smaller subcenters with a single physician. More generally, poor service delivery has to do with
weak management and incentives within the
public health system—ineffective technical
and structural backup, lack of professional
career structures, and inadequate financial
incentives all contribute. But the weak
demand for service provider accountability
and quality is also a problem.71
If they are organized, poor citizens and
communities can have more voice and
greater power to influence health providers.
Governments can help support organization
by communities and enhance provider
accountability. It helps to have well-defined
objectives for health service delivery with
transparent metrics for monitoring progress.
This allows for community oversight of
health workers and facilities, and when coupled with sufficient management autonomy
for providers to reach the established objectives, can lead to improved provider incentives and accountability.
There is also a need for governments to
engage with nonpublic health care providers:
in many countries, NGO and private
providers make up a large part of the health

network. NGOs are particularly helpful in
serving remote areas and hard-to-reach populations: the Bangladesh Rural Advancement
Committee (BRAC) trains community workers to seek out the extremely poor in need of
urgent medical care. In Jordan, half or more
of outpatient visits are to private providers.72
Many private providers offer excellent services. But some do not—and misdiagnose,
misprescribe, or overprescribe treatment. In
Mexico, even wealthy women receive worse
care from private providers than from public
providers (Barber, Bertossi, and Gertler
2005). Without unduly discouraging beneficial private enterprise in health, governments
need to ensure accreditation and appropriate
regulation for nonpublic providers.

Social protection: managing risk
and providing social assistance
Social protection policies typically have
been thought of as a form of redistribution.
This certainly is important. But more recent
theoretical and empirical work also highlights a crucial opportunity-enhancing role
for social protection.73 As chapter 5 showed,
pervasive financial market failures in developing countries lead to widespread uninsured risks and credit constraints. Unequal
capacity to manage risk means unequal
opportunities to engage in risky but highreturn activities. Families may deal with
crises in ways that narrow future opportunities, such as distress sales and forgoing
health care, schooling, or food intake. By
helping poor people manage risks, social
protection programs expand their opportunities and enhance overall efficiency.
Even purely redistributive programs can
have important opportunity-enhancing impacts. Take the example of social pension
schemes in Brazil and South Africa. These
schemes are pure transfers targeted to the
elderly, geared strictly to avoiding destitution, but they have important welfare
impacts beyond that. They improve the
recipients’ access to credit, thanks to the
regularity of pension payments, and lead to
higher investments in the household’s physical capital and in the human capital of its
children and elderly.74
But social protection systems do more
than help individual households avoid des-

Human capacities

titution and expand their opportunities—
they can also help societies embark on
reforms that would have insurmountable
equity and political costs without them.
Reforms desirable for their beneficial impacts on efficiency and the government’s
fiscal position—such as increasing utility
prices, eliminating general food subsidies,
introducing a defined contribution pension
system, liberalizing trade—may not be
politically feasible unless policies are in
place to compensate losers. Importantly,
permanent social protection can help
reduce the need for special compensatory
programs for each and every reform75—all
the more important because such programs
are difficult to start and stop and are not
always very efficient.
All of this confirms that there is a
dynamic efficiency rationale for social protection. But there are also important efficiency arguments against transfer policies.
Design issues are of particular concern,
because poorly designed programs can have
large negative consequences on efficiency.
Taxes or contributions have distortionary
costs, especially when they are not directly
linked to benefits (see focus 5 for a discussion of tax policies), while transfers can
dampen work incentives, reduce private savings, and weaken informal insurance mechanisms. Europe’s experience in the second
half of the 1900s suggests that well-designed
social (and tax) policies can indeed be consistent with strong growth thanks to careful
attention to productivity impacts.76

Program choices vary by country
Social protection generally encompasses two
classes of interventions:
• Contributory schemes (social insurance)
in which the primary focus is on managing risks through smoothing an individual’s income over time and in the face of
difficulties These programs often pool
risks across large numbers of individuals
and include old-age and disability pensions and health and unemployment
insurance.
• General tax funded transfers (social
assistance) in which the focus is on
redistribution from the better off to the

Figure 7.5 Almost all countries spend more on social insurance than on social
assistance (percent of GDP)
% of GDP
14
Social insurance
spending
Social assistance
spending

12
10
8
6
4
2
0
Middle East
Suband
Saharan
Africa* North Africa

Europe
and
Central
Asia

East Asia South Asia
and the
Pacific

Latin
America
and the
Caribbean

OECD

Source: Data on 74 countries taken from World Bank Public Expenditure reviews or other similar work.
OECD data are from the OECD Social Expenditure database.
Note:* The average for Africa is based on data for only two countries. OECD excludes those OECD members (such as Poland and Mexico) that are already accounted for in the regional averages.

poor. These include a variety of cash or
in-kind programs targeted at the poor.
These are complemented by labor market regulations (for example, on hiring and
firing of workers) that are discussed in
chapter 9. There is large variation in the
share of GDP spent on social protection,
with more-developed regions devoting considerable sums (figure 7.5). Almost all
countries spend more on social insurance
than social assistance programs.
There is no consensus on the appropriate
balance of interventions—even in countries
that have sufficient resources and capacity to
implement any combination desired. Some
observers argue for the universality of social
insurance programs over the targeted nature
of social assistance programs that are based
on political economy considerations. They
argue that targeted programs are exclusionary, by definition, and divisive as a result.77
But a significant group of OECD countries
(notably New Zealand, Australia, the United
States, and the United Kingdom) have opted
for systems with heavier components of targeted transfers and less generous or less universal programs.78
Many developing countries face constraints on the choice of systems because of
limited fiscal and administrative capacity.
Many poor and even middle-income coun-

149

150

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Table 7.1 Examples of social protection programs
Group served

Social insurance

Safety net

Complementary
Labor Market Regulation

Working poor or unemployed

Unemployment insurance

Transfers
Public works programs
General subsidies to food, utilities, or housing

Minimum wage laws
Job security regulations
Severance pay

Nonworking young

Universal child allowances
Maternity benefits

Means-tested child allowances
Transfers linked to MCH programs
School feeding
Conditional cash transfers

Child labor laws

Nonworking elderly

Contributory pensions

Transfers
Social pensions

Retirement age

Special groups

Disability insurance for disabled

Transfers

Affirmative action for minorities

tries lack the administrative sophistication
and levels of urbanization and formal
employment needed to administer a social
insurance scheme, and high social security
taxes have segmented the labor market and
encouraged informality.
What then are the options for the many
developing countries that are far from able
to achieve universal social insurance systems? There is a large range of social assistance programs, each different in groups
served, administrative requirements, complementary benefits, incentive effects, and
political factors (table 7.1). A judicious
blending of these programs can usually
result in a social protection system that covers the appropriate groups with feasible
instruments. The mix of programs selected
and their specific characteristics will depend
on context—that is, the risks faced, the level
of urbanization, the age structure, the size of
the formal sector, the administrative capacity, and the complementary social policies
and sociocultural or political factors.
Next, we discuss programs for four key
groups:
•
•
•
•

The working poor
The nonworking young
The nonworking elderly
Special vulnerable groups

In many cases, the second two groups are part
of households that could benefit from programs that target the working poor. So the
more comprehensive the programs for the
first group, the less the need for programs for
the latter two, and the smaller and more
focused they might be.

Programs for the working poor
Most people, especially poor people, rely on
labor earnings for their livelihoods, many in
the informal sector, through subsistence
farming, or as agricultural laborers for others.
Labor market risk can be reduced significantly by improving the functioning of labor
markets and by pursuing sound macroeconomic policies (chapter 9). But even a wellfunctioning labor market will not fully eliminate the risk of unemployment. Moreover, in
years with bad crops or low prices, earnings
may not be enough to stave off poverty.
A range of instruments can help address
the risk of inadequate incomes—for example, unemployment insurance, needs-based
social assistance, or public works. Even
food, utility, and housing price subsidies are
geared in part to solving the problems of
inadequate labor incomes, although with
notably poor targeting and sometimes large
distortionary costs.
Unemployment insurance, the obvious
instrument for mitigating the risk of job
loss in the formal sector, will not work well
in countries with large informal sectors.
Even so, schemes may be able to cover a useful share of workers and take some burden
off programs more tailored to those in the
informal sector (chapter 9). For example, in
1998 in response to the East Asian financial
crisis, Korea expanded its young unemployment insurance program to smaller firms as
well as to temporary and daily workers.79
Needs-based cash transfers, the classic
social assistance instrument, are common
in high-income countries. Such programs
are potentially very efficient. Nontransfer
costs can be low, usually 5 to 10 percent of

Human capacities

total program costs. The programs need not
impose significant forgone earnings on participants. And they give cash and, thus full
consumer sovereignty, to the recipient.
But these programs face two challenges.
First, they require a targeting mechanism.
The classic mechanism in high-income countries has been a verified means test. Because
income in these settings is mostly formal, it is
possible and not too costly to collect accurate
information on income and assets. Eastern
Europe also has successful experience with
means-tested programs, although verifying
incomes and assets is more difficult and less
accurate there than in high-income countries. Latin America’s proxy means tests
(relying on easily observable indicators of
income) have been shown to be fairly accurate and low cost. Low-income countries with
large shares of income from the informal sector experience greater difficulties in setting
up targeting mechanism. Although the evidence is less clear-cut, community-based systems have been shown to work well in some
countries around the world, especially in
fairly homogenous rural communities
(Albania, Bangladesh, Ethiopia, Indonesia,
Uganda, and Uzbekistan) where elite capture
is not a major concern. So the targeting issue
could be surmounted.80
The second challenge is perhaps bigger—
both for technical design and political support. Needs-based transfers inherently present a disincentive to work for those of
working age because entry into the program (or the benefit level) depends on
income. Traditional mechanisms to partly
mitigate the work disincentives include
keeping benefits substantially lower than
minimum wage, as in Bulgaria or Romania,
or lower than the earning of low-skilled
agricultural laborers, as in Kyrgyz Republic,
or using a sliding withdrawal of benefits as
incomes rise, as in much of the industrial
world, or an earned-income tax credit as in
the United Kingdom and United States.81
A newer wave of efforts takes a more active
approach to encouraging independence or
“graduation” from the need for assistance
than under the traditional mechanisms just
mentioned. Chile’s Puente program uses
extensive social work to diagnose each household’s barriers to independence and to pre-

pare customized contracts with the household to address the most important of these
barriers over a period of two years.
Bangladesh’s program of income generation
for the development of vulnerable groups
(IGVGD run by BRAC) gives in-kind assistance to destitute rural women for a period
of 18 months. During this time, they are
required to save some money and participate
in business training. At the end of the cycle,
women have the opportunity of “graduating” into the regular microfinance program.
A few programs, as in Romania and Bulgaria,
add a public service requirement (thus blurring the line between the means-tested social
assistance and public works programs).82 So,
whether through traditional or more innovative mechanisms, the disincentive problem
can also be mitigated.
Public works programs that support the
working or unemployed poor have been used
in many countries (box 7.10). By offering
employment for low wages, these programs
self-select the able-bodied poor, avoiding
both the means-testing and work disincentives. In good programs, the work is in highreturn activities that create assets and services. The self-targeting aspect is useful
because informality is widespread in developing countries and incomes are hard to assess.
It is doubly useful as part of a countercyclical
measure in fighting poverty during periods of
crisis—workers leave the program when their
regular source of livelihood picks up again
after the crisis. Public works programs for
infrastructure are especially welcome in lowincome countries, postconflict settings, and
sometimes post–natural disaster settings.
Public works programs have some disadvantages too. The administrative capacity to
select and run the programs is significant.
Indeed the often-cited good programs are a
minority of all the public works programs
implemented around the world. Many have
failed, often over the inability to line up and
deliver useful public works, to provide sufficient nonlabor inputs, or to set the wage right.
Even when programs are well run, the net
benefits transferred to participants are often
a small share of total program costs. First,
management, materials, equipment, and
skilled labor requirements can run up to 40
to 60 percent of program costs. Second,

151

152

BOX 7.10

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Public works programs: key issues

Public works programs have been
demonstrated to work in some middle-income
countries (Chile, Argentina, and South Africa)
and low-income countries (Senegal, Kenya,
India, and Bangladesh)—and not to work in
many others.This international experience
offers several lessons in the design and implementation of public works programs.
Wage rate. The key to self-targeting is setting
the wage rate low enough—no higher than the
market wage for unskilled manual labor in agriculture or the informal sector during a normal
year.While determining the precise level of the
wage rate may not be easy, it is better to start
with a wage rate that is too low—if there is no
demand at the offered wage rate, it can be
raised. Setting a low wage rate level does more
than ensure that the workfare scheme will be
well self-targeted. It also maintains the incentive
to take up regular work when it becomes available, and it helps ensure that the program can
reach as many of those in need as possible.
Conditions of eligibility. Rationing should be
avoided; ideally the only requirement should be
the willingness to work at the offered wage. If
rationing is unavoidable (for example, if the
demand for employment at the wage set
exceeds the available budget), explicit secondary
criteria should be used—the program may target poor areas, work may be offered only in seasons of greatest need, the length of employment
of any individual may be limited, or such addi-

tional options as community-based selection of
the neediest or a lottery may be implemented.
Least desirable is rationing with entry
determined by foremen or political figures.
Women’s participation can be enhanced through
nondiscriminatory wages, the provision of onsite
child care, and adequately private latrines.
Employment guarantee. A workfare program
that guarantees employment can reduce the
longer-term risk the poor face. While highly
desirable, guarantees have not been a feature of
most public workfare schemes. One exception is
the Employment Guarantee Scheme in Maharasthra, India, which guarantees unskilled manual work within the district within 15 days of
registering for employment with the scheme.
While this does not necessarily mean locally
accessible employment, the scheme comes closest to offering a guarantee of any kind. India
recently announced its intention to extend the
guarantee by providing 100 days of
employment on rural public works projects at a
minimum wage.The scheme is not far enough
into implementation to draw lessons. Murgai
and Ravallion (2005) simulate some possible
outcomes for a range of design parameters: the
targeting could be good and impacts of poverty
large, but the costs could also be substantial—1
to 2 percent of GDP for the 100-day scheme.
Labor intensity. The labor intensity—that is,
the share of the wage bill in total costs—should
be higher than normal for similar projects in the

workers have to forgo some income to participate: in the absence of the program, they
usually would have been able to pick up
some part-time work or engage in low-return
self-employment activities. In Argentina’s
Trabajar, forgone earnings were half of gross
earnings; in Maharashtra’s Employment
Guarantee scheme, 53 percent; and in
Bolivia’s ESF, 60 percent.83 Theoretically, forgone earnings can be minimized by allowing
flexible working hours or part-time work,
but this can complicate the supervision of
the public works and the workers.

Programs for the nonworking young
Earlier, we focused on interventions geared to
overcoming the disadvantaged family circumstances of young children through a variety of
services that improve their cognitive and social
skills and prepare them for learning in school.
Here we focus on ways of augmenting the
family’s income to alleviate poverty among
children and improve their chances in life.

same setting.There is a tradeoff between immediate income gains through employment of the
poor, and gains to the poor from the quality and
durability of the assets created. In a crisis situation, in which current transfers to the poor have
high weight, a high labor intensity is desirable.
Illustrative average labor intensities range from
0.5 to 0.65 percent in low-income countries and
are somewhat lower (0.4) in middle-income
countries, although labor intensity often varies
significantly by subprojects.
Administration and implementation. Administering and implementing an effective scheme
is hard—requiring the selection and management of a plethora of small projects over a wide
geographic area and many administrative entities. Ideally, public works schemes require a
menu of works well-integrated into the local
planning process yet elastic in size and timing.
This can be difficult in low-capacity settings
because of the forward planning and
interagency coordination needed. In highcapacity settings, fitting many small laborintensive projects into the sophisticated and
often capital-intensive infrastructure plans of
large- and middle-income cities can be difficult.
Moreover, ensuring that the workfare program is
poverty focused is not easy because of conflicting pressures from alternative target groups,
such as the skilled unemployed.
Sources: Subbarao (2003) and Murgai and Ravallion
(2005).

Programs aimed at children can be universal or means-tested, free-standing or
linked to the use of health and education
services. In both Eastern and Western
Europe, the traditional approach to income
support for children is through child
allowances, independent from but complemented by extensive public education and
health care. Most Western European programs are universal, although a few are
means-tested (Italy and Spain). A higher
fraction of Eastern European programs and
those in other middle-income countries are
means-tested (Bulgaria, Belarus, the Czech
Republic, the Kyrgyz Republic, Poland,
Romania, the Russian Federation, Serbia
and Montenegro, the Slovak Republic,
Argentina, Chile). In Africa, Latin America,
and Asia, there is a long and extensive history of school feeding programs and maternal and child health programs that distribute food (or occasionally food stamps).
Many of these programs rely on existing

Human capacities

service delivery mechanisms to make their
administration feasible or cheaper.
A new wave of CCT recognizes that
imperfect markets can lead to underinvestment in human capital (chapter 5) and
explicitly seeks to enhance the opportunitygenerating potential of income support
through links to the use of services. CCT
programs are now being implemented in
about two dozen countries, mainly in Latin
America—but they are being discussed by
many other countries and in all regions.
These programs transfer income in cash or
in kind to poor households with children.
They grant benefits only if children comply
with standards for attendance in school or
participation in a health care program. In the
CCT programs with good data, the targeting
outcomes have been quite good at generally
reasonable administrative costs. All five programs reviewed by Morley and Coady (2003)
distribute far more than a proportional share
to the bottom quintiles (table 7.2). On average, the share of program benefits going to
the bottom 40 percent of the population is
an impressive 81 percent. The evidence on
poverty impact is more limited, but PROGRESA (now Oportunidades) had a powerful effect: program communities experienced
declines of 17.4 percent in the incidence of
poverty compared with the control group.84
The conditioning of benefits on use of
health and education services serves the
dual objectives of avoiding severe deprivation and enhancing opportunities for
human development. But there is a tension
between these goals. A simulation of the
results that might be expected from the federal Bolsa Escola program in Brazil shows
only a small reduction (1 percentage point)
in the poverty index because of the (simulated) loss of labor income of children who
drop out of the labor force to attend school.
Mexico’s PROGRESA (now Oportunidades)
had impressive poverty impacts but
increased primary enrollment rates by only
about 1 percentage point because they were
already above 90 percent. Cambodia’s program, which focuses on grades seven
through nine, may well help with the transition to secondary school, but it misses some
of the poorest households because so many
have dropped out by then.85

Table 7.2

153

Targeting performance of conditional transfer schemesa

Quintile

PRAF
(Honduras)

RPS
(Nicaragua)

PROGRESA
(now Oportunidades)
(Mexico)

SUF
(Chile)

FFE
(Bangladesh)

1

43

55

40

67

—

2

80

81

62

89

48

3

94

94

81

97

—

4

98

99

93

100

—

5

100

100

100

100

100

Source: Morley and Coady (2003), table 5-3.
Note: PRAF = Programa de Asignación Familiar; RPS = Red de Protección Social; SUF = Subsido Unitario Familiar;
FFE = Food For Education; — = not available.
a. Cumulative share (percent) of benefit captured, by income quintile.

In settings with low access to health and
education services, this tension means that
conditional transfer programs may not be
appropriate vehicles for social assistance.
The conditions would keep the program
from serving the poorest. The opposite may
be true as well: when the use of services is
already satisfactory, it may not be worth
using administrative resources to verify
compliance with service use conditions.

Programs for the nonworking elderly
Most countries have public pensions programs for the elderly. Two arguments provide a rationale for governments to mandate
a pension system to provide for old-age
security: imperfect financial markets limit
the scope for redistribution over one’s life,
and human “failures” to see far enough into
the future may lead to undersaving for old
age. The need for old-age security will grow.
The population of 60 year olds, about 10
percent of the world population today, is
projected to reach about 21 percent by 2050.
Within this group, the fraction of people
over the age of 80, about 12 percent today, is
expected to reach 19 percent by 2050.86
Contributory pension programs have
not solved the problem of old-age security.
Coverage is low—only 20 percent of the
global workforce. Even in pension systems
with extensive coverage, the lifetime poor
cannot contribute enough to have a pension
at old age that would keep them out of
poverty. Elderly women who have not
worked outside the home are particularly
vulnerable. Moreover, in some countries,
such as in Kenya, Uganda, Sri Lanka, and
Zambia, poorly governed schemes gave

154

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

lower-income workers returns less than
bank deposits and the alternatives of investing in land, tools, or a vehicle.87
Options for assisting the elderly poor
include the following: broadening pension
systems to include more people, adding a
redistributive element as part of an existing
contributory pension scheme, or covering
them through a separate “social pension”
financed by general revenue. A fourth
option is a general needs-based social assistance program.
Broadening the coverage of contributory
pensions has been attempted, generally with
little success. In the Republic of Korea, mandating the expansion of coverage to farmers,
fishermen, and self-employed was met with
massive protests; in the end, the government
had to subsidize in full or in part the contributions of almost two-thirds of the target population. Adding a redistributive element is
common, but as pension reforms strengthen
the link between contributions and benefits
for efficiency reasons, that redistributive element is becoming smaller.
Social pensions provide transfers to the
elderly without requiring prior contributions
or withdrawing from the labor force.88 They
can be universal, as in Botswana, Mauritius,
Namibia, or Bolivia. Or they can be meanstested, as in South Africa, Senegal, India,
Bangladesh, a number of Latin American
countries, Australia, Italy, and New Zealand.
Many of them complement contributory systems that cover higher-income groups. When
the transfers are means-tested, the programs
are really a special case of needs-based cash
transfers limited to the elderly. The targeting
challenges discussed earlier and the potential
solutions are similar. Labor disincentives are
lessened, however, because societies expect
lower work efforts from the elderly.89
Evidence from various countries implementing large social pension schemes indicates that the costs are 1 to 2 percent of GDP,
not negligible for low-income developing
countries. Schwartz (2003) simulates the
costs in six African countries of providing
social pensions, limiting the benefit to 40
percent of GDP per capita and eligibility to
those age 75 and above. The costs would
range from 0.2 percent of GDP in Kenya to
0.7 percent of GDP in Ghana, still not insub-

stantial. Kakwani and Subbarao (2005) simulate various options for 15 African countries, and conclude that the best—taking into
account poverty impact, fiscal cost, and
incentive effects—is to keep the benefit low
(about one-third of the poverty threshold),
the eligible age limit at 65 or older, and to
target only the elderly poor, thus sacrificing
the administrative simplicity and political
advantage of universalism. There is enough
variation across countries to warrant countryspecific efforts to determine benefit and eligibility levels and targeting methods rather
than relying on rules of thumb.
How should we think about the balance
between social pensions for the elderly and
other programs, such as those targeting
families with children? Are the elderly poor
more deserving than other poor? Brazil
spends 1 percent of GDP to transfer $70 a
month to 5.3 million elderly poor and only
0.15 percent of GDP to transfer $6 to $19
per month to 5 million families to support
school attendance through the Bolsa Escola
program.90 When considering whether this
the right balance, one can argue generally
that young families with children, who have
their entire lives ahead of them, should have
higher priority. Indeed some argue for shifting public spending away from pensions
and toward families with children in Brazil
and others suggest that a focus on unemployment may be more appropriate to
reduce poverty in South Africa.91
There may be important political economy reasons why programs for the elderly
garner such political support. There is direct
evidence from attitude surveys, across societies and age groups, that concerns about old
age poverty are strong and widely shared—
perhaps because most people expect to be old
one day (but not necessarily unemployed, or
a single parent, or disabled) and also because
old age is more easily verifiable and less subject to moral hazard, for example, when compared with unemployment insurance.92

Programs for special
vulnerable groups
Some groups are vulnerable regardless of
age—the disabled, HIV infected, ethnic
minorities, certain castes, internally displaced households, refugees, and orphans

Human capacities

(box 7.11).93 One of the key issues in providing transfers for these groups is whether to
set up specific programs or to include them
in a more general program. There is no universal answer to this, and a complex set of
issues must be diagnosed in each case. One is
targeting. Not all orphans, widows, or disabled are poor, so universal programs will
include some non-poor. A second issue
relates to the special needs of the groups. Will
income support alone be sufficient, and if
not (as is usually the case) does it make sense
to link the income support to other programs for the group? For example, when
large groups of internally displaced people or
refugees emerge suddenly, their needs for
housing, food, and health care may strain
local availability. In such cases in-kind provision to the group is usually the first response.
Only after the groups become long-standing
or somewhat smaller does the question of
whether to switch to a needs-based cash
assistance or workfare program arise. Special
programs for groups viewed positively or as
deserving, such as veterans or the disabled,
may have adequate political support, but if
the group is excluded, as ethnic minorities or
the HIV positive are in many cases, such programs may not garner sufficient support.
While standard transfers may protect
these groups, a broader set of policies can
help expand their opportunities and facilitate their integration into society. Some
countries have used affirmative action (see
chapter 8). Others have used regulations
and awareness campaigns that sanction
harmful local practices to help prevent discrimination. Policy responses include creating a framework to hear advocacy groups
and mainstreaming such concerns into government practice, often building on informal or private arrangements, such as those
of faith-based organizations.

Summary
Equity in the acquisition of human capacities—through early childhood development, formal education, health services,
and social protection—is at the core of a
strategy to equalize the opportunities for
people to lead productive, fulfilling lives.
Broad provisioning of these services is also
good for development and poverty reduc-

BOX 7.11

155

Africa’s orphans and public action

Conflict and the HIV/AIDS pandemic are
generating a major humanitarian crisis for
families in Sub-Saharan Africa.There are as
many as 43 million orphaned children in the
region today, 10 percent of whom have lost
both parents. Orphans make up more than
15 percent of all children in 11 countries,
and the numbers are rising .
The death of an earning family member
is most likely to drive a family into penury
because of the costs of funeral, the loss of
regular income, and the risk of losing one’s
property. Erosion of human capital is
another major risk: microstudies and analysis of household surveys suggest that, relative to other children in the household, fostered children are underenrolled in schools,
work longer hours doing household chores,
and have lower immunization coverage—
and the disadvantage is stronger for
fostered girls than for fostered boys. Psychological risks are also high because the death
of a parent often leaves the child in a state
of trauma, lacking nurturance and
guidance, and impeding socialization.
The main coping strategy in Africa is fostering by the extended family.When possible,

interventions should first try to strengthen
grassroots responses to orphan care, and turn
to supplementary interventions only when
the extended family is no longer sufficient or
capable.When no other living arrangement is
possible, experience and research show that
orphanages must be the “last resort.”Recognizing the scope for exploitation of vulnerable children under all arrangements, appropriate checks and balances must be in place,
including oversight by NGOs or communitybased organizations.
When access to basic education and
health services is generally low, waiving
school fees and uniform obligations would
help increase enrollment rates of all
children including orphans, as in Uganda.
When average access to services is high, but
the difference in access between the poor
and the non-poor, and between orphans
and non-orphan children, is large, cash
transfers conditional on children attending
school seem appropriate. Innovative
programs along these lines are just beginning (as in Swaziland).
Sources: Subbarao and Coury (2004); USAID,
UNAIDS, and UNICEF (2004).

tion through impacts on innovation, productivity, and social cohesion. But there are
big challenges to equitable provisioning—
getting the relevant issues on the policy
agenda, fighting political capture of institutions so that they do not only serve the
powerful and the influential, and managing
efficiency-equity tradeoffs, especially in the
short term. There are also good prospects
for incremental change through advocacy
to point out long-run benefits even when
there are short-run costs, through sound
program and tax design to minimize efficiency costs and build accountability structures, and through political coalitions that
can thwart elite holdups.
The power of greater equity in human
capacities to unhinge inequality traps is
tremendous—through directly contributing to leveling the economic, political, and
sociocultural playing fields. But achieving
greater equity in human capacity is not
enough to break the inequality trap. It
needs to be complemented with fairness in
the returns to those capacities and in the
access to complementary assets, topics discussed in the next chapter.

Justice, land, and infrastructure

8

chapter

It takes more than building human capacities
to broaden people’s opportunities. People
also need complementary assets, access to the
marketplace, and security of person and
property. This chapter starts with a description of justice systems, showing how critical
they are in ensuring a level playing field and
fair returns. It then turns to policies for
expanding access to the complementary assets
of land and infrastructure. Promoting fairness in markets is addressed in chapter 9.

inaccessible, because they are incompatible
with local norms and customs and they are
physically or economically inaccessible, or
because people lack the knowledge or capacity to navigate the system. Third, elite
capture and the inaccessibility of the legal
system may mean that policies relating to
crime and personal security are inequitable
and perpetuate crime-related inequality traps.

Building equitable justice systems

Political and economic elite interests often
coincide at the expense of a disempowered
majority. When power is in the hands of a
narrow elite, the rights of most citizens are
unstable. A century of banking in Mexico,
outlined in chapter 6, illustrates how deals
between the political and economic elite led
to the establishment of banking monopolies and laws that maintained a system of
rent-sharing between banks and governments.1 Another striking example of elite
capture comes from the transition economies
and the rise of oligarchs who manipulated
politicians and shaped institutions to get
rich.2 Legal systems that cater to narrow
interests also tend to discriminate against
other groups through inequitable laws and
practices.
Ensuring equality before the law and
securing both personal and property rights
for a broad section of the community give
individuals the incentive and the opportunity to take part in economic and political
life. This requires an independent and
accountable judiciary and laws and practices that protect citizen’s rights in a nondiscriminatory way.

Society’s rules, and the institutions that
establish, maintain, and transform them,
govern market and nonmarket interactions.
They determine people’s endowments, their
rights and obligations, and their ability to
generate fair returns. Reflecting and producing the distribution of power among
groups, good institutions (so necessary for
prosperity) emerge only when the distribution of political power and enforceable
rights is equitable.
Legal institutions play a key role in the distribution of power and rights. They also
underpin the forms and functions of other
institutions that deliver public services and
regulate market practices. Justice systems can
provide a vehicle to mediate conflict, resolve
disputes, and sustain social order. But
inequitable justice systems may perpetuate
inequality traps by maintaining or reproducing elite interests and discriminatory practices. Equitable justice systems are thus crucial to sustained equitable development.
Building more equitable justice systems
runs into three main challenges—often
interrelated and reinforcing. First, legal
institutions may be open to capture by elite
interests or may discriminate against certain
groups. Second, these institutions are often
156

Combating elite capture
and discrimination

Enhancing judicial independence and
accountability. In many countries, a rule of

Justice, land, and infrastructure

law system—administered by multiple arms
of government—constrains political power.3
In this system, an independent judiciary acts
as a safeguard against abuses of state and
nonstate power. Because judges are also open
to elite capture and corruption, accountability mechanisms are a key aspect of legitimate
judicial independence.4
In many developing countries, shifts
toward an accountable and independent
judiciary require a change in culture and
institutional practice. Ethiopia established an
independent judiciary for the first time in
1995.5 In Vietnam “telephone justice” was
common, with party elites habitually contacting judges to direct decisions.6 Changing
ingrained institutional practices in both
countries has been a slow process. Poor conditions of judicial service in many countries
can increase corruption.7 For example, low
remuneration for magistrates in Kenya made
them open to alternative funding for their
services; Kenya removed almost one-third of
judicial staff for corruption in 2004.8
Promoting judicial independence without establishing accountability mechanisms can further entrench elite interests.
Institutional safeguards, transparency, and
the existence of a civic constituency are key
to both accountability mechanisms and
judicial independence. Institutional safeguards include providing for security of
tenure and improving conditions of service for judges; rigorous and transparent
appointment and disciplinary processes;
transparent mechanisms of case allocation
and case management; transparent and
open hearings; appeal rights and the publication of judicial decisions; and public
information about the courts.9 Many
countries have enshrined judicial independence in the constitution or state
laws.10 Bolivia has established open competitions for judgeships and ethical standards for judges. Courts in the Philippines
have a performance management system
for judicial and nonjudicial personnel.
Public information campaigns can enhance the independence and accountability
of the courts, increasing public confidence in
and commitment to the system, and enhancing people’s capacity to demand better governance and hold those in positions of power

157

accountable. In Colombia public information centers in major courts disseminate
information and help people use the court.
In Venezuela information is provided to the
public through an Internet-based judicial
portal for the Supreme Tribunal.11
Strengthening the relationship among
civil society, the media, and the courts has
also improved public awareness and scrutiny
of the judicial system. Bad judges have
resigned because of high-pressure media
campaigns, such as the recent media
scrutiny in the Philippines.12 The media can
also disseminate information, such as the
“My Rights” television show in Armenia
(box 8.1). Similar shows have been developed in other parts of Eastern Europe. In
Georgia, an NGO disseminating information about the courts increased public satisfaction with the courts.
The existence of an independent and
accountable judiciary is not enough to protect citizens against abuses of state power.
Adequate laws and institutional mechanisms are also needed. In Thailand, for
example, separate administrative courts
were established for the first time in 2001 to
protect citizens against arbitrary uses of
state power. The courts aim to ensure that
state authorities act in accordance with state
laws and regulations. They also aim to
enhance citizen participation in public policy formulation and oversight. In the first
three years, the courts processed almost

BOX 8.1

Increasing legal literacy and public awareness:
“My Rights” on Armenian public television

Many people in Armenia have no understanding of the legal system or the rights afforded
them under the law.And distrust of the courts
is widespread.In a recent public awareness
campaign, the government funded a television show to provide citizens with examples,
advice, and information on their legal rights.
“My Rights”uses mock trials to depict
real-life disputes in Armenian courts.The television judge is a deputy minister of justice,
and the parties are often those in the real
dispute.The topics—such as rental and property disputes, customs issues, and family law
matters—are timely and of broad interest. A
live studio audience of judges, lawyers, legal
officials, and others discusses the trials on air.

The show airs once a week on Armenia’s
state television channel. After only five or six
shows,“My Rights” became the number one
show in Armenia.There have been numerous reports of viewers requesting legal documents and decisions from notaries, judges,
and other legal officials based on what they
learned from the show. And when the
power went out in one village a few
minutes before “My Rights” was going on
the air, the people in the town marched on
the mayor’s office and accused the local
officials of intentionally cutting the power
so that people could not watch the show!
Source: Decker and others (2005).

158

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

17,000 cases, most concerning corruption
or other unlawful acts by public officials.
Many of the cases made front-page news in
Thailand because of their social impact.
Combating discriminatory norms and practices. Laws that reinforce exclusionary practices in norm-based institutions perpetuate
unequal power relations. Some laws may
discriminate against particular groups, such
as laws affecting indigenous people or the
laws in apartheid South Africa. The absence
of laws can also reinforce unequal power
relations as for domestic violence, often relegated to the nonlegal private realm.
In many countries, antidiscrimination
and equal opportunity laws have reduced discriminatory practices. Historical disadvan-

BOX 8.2

Affirmative action in India and the United States

The affirmative action program in India is
based primarily on caste and gender and
that in the United States primarily on race.
Before independence in India, the British
government introduced affirmative action
to address discrimination against
“untouchable” castes (now known as Dalits) and “tribals” (now known as Adivasis).
After independence in 1947 the policy of
reserving 22.5 percent of seats in education institutions, government jobs and
electoral seats was written into the constitution. Since 1991, a further 27 percent
quota has been introduced for other low
castes (called Other Backward Castes), but
with no constitutional guarantee. And
since 1993, 33 percent of the seats in local
governments have been reserved for
women, Dalits, and Adivasis (Deshpande
2005).
In the United States, slavery was pervasive for more than two centuries, and not
until 1866 were blacks granted citizenship
rights.The system that replaced slavery was
only marginally better, with several features
similar to the Indian caste system: segregation, denial of education, restrictions to lowpaid, menial jobs, social and economic discrimination, negative stereotyping, and
violence.The Civil Rights Act of 1964 and
subsequent legislation, Supreme Court rulings, and executive orders in the 1970s introduced affirmative action into the political,
judicial, administrative, and economic
spheres of American society. Starting with
the label “equal opportunity,” selection procedures incorporate compensatory correction to ensure adequate representation of

minorities in education and employment
(Deshpande 2005).
The programs in both countries have
become centerpieces of political battles
over race and caste. Critics argue that they
tend to benefit the upper echelon of minority groups, and they are difficult to end. In
India, the programs are said to apply to subcastes that have not traditionally faced discrimination (Sowell 2004).They may also
reinforce negative stereotypes by placing
minorities in positions they are not qualified
for (Coate and Loury 1993). Despite these
weaknesses, India’s program has provided
formal sector employment and higher education for many Dalit and Adivasi families,
freeing them from subservient roles.With
the reservations in local government,
elected women leaders make decisions in
line with women’s needs (Chattopadhyay
and Duflo 2004). Low-caste representatives
in state assemblies increase the allocation of
quota-based jobs to low-caste constituents
(Pande 2003). And Dalit representatives in
village government improve the targeting of
benefits to Dalits (Besley and others 2004).
In the United States, disparities between
blacks and whites continue to be significant
on all economic indicators, and there is evidence of discriminatory gaps in earnings.
But affirmative action in jobs has increased
black employment and enrollment in
higher education (Holzer and Neumark
2000, Bowen and Bok 1998). But the U.S.
program’s quasi-voluntary element means
that litigation can dilute the program, and
black representation in government bodies
continues to be very low.

tage may mean, however, that legal equality is
not enough. Some countries have passed laws
that discriminate in favor of certain groups,
creating affirmative action programs on the
basis of race, ethnicity, and gender or for people with disabilities. An assessment of two of
the most widely implemented affirmative
action programs, in India and the United
States, suggests mixed impacts (box 8.2).
The mere existence of “equitable laws”
for affirmative action does not guarantee
their equitable implementation or enforcement. For example, in Peru and Honduras,
gender discrimination in judicial decisions
and treatment by police and judges discourage women from using the system to resolve
disputes.13 Such disadvantaged groups are
more likely to experience the law-and-order
side of the law than the protection of their
rights (as discussed below under crime and
personal security).

Making justice accessible
People’s legal rights remain theoretical if the
institutions charged with enforcing them are
inaccessible. Accessibility depends on how
compatible laws are with the norms and
understandings that shape people’s lives.
Legal institutions need to be physically and
economically accessible and people need to
have the knowledge and capacity to claim
their rights.
Addressing the compatibility of state and
customary justice systems. Forms of customary or nonstate law operate in a
majority of countries.14 Yet they are often
neglected in justice sector reform policies.
Engaging with customary systems is an
important part of equitable reform strategies for two main reasons. First, customary
law is often a fundamental part of a community’s identity and belief system; thus, a
lack of recognition can be intrinsically discriminatory and serve to exclude communities from the wider state system. Second, a
failure to engage with customary systems
may leave inequitable and inefficient practices at the local level unchecked.
Where state and nonstate systems have
developed in tandem, they often complement each other and reinforce socially
accepted codes and rules. But in communi-

Justice, land, and infrastructure

ties where the state systems lack legitimacy
and political reach, customary systems
often act independently from the state legal
system, which may be rejected, ignored, or
not understood. Real difficulties arise when
local customary systems are at odds with
the rights and responsibilities articulated in
state law.
In many developing countries, customary systems are the dominant form of regulation and dispute resolution. In Sierra
Leone, about 85 percent of the population
fell under customary law as of 2003.15 Customary tenure, discussed below, affects 90
percent of land transactions in Mozambique and Ghana.16 Customary justice
depends on local traditions, as well as the
political history of a country or region.
Ethiopia officially recognizes more than 100
distinct “nations or peoples” and more than
75 languages.
Customary systems can be incompatible
with economic, social, and civil rights.
Many forms of customary law are seen to
discriminate against marginal groups. In
much of Sub-Saharan Africa, for example,
customary systems systematically deny
women’s rights to land, assets, or opportunities.17 Customary practices are also seen
as archaic and rigid—not amenable to
modernization, efficient market relations,
or broader development goals. They are
often seen as overly localized and complex,
making more generalized reform initiatives
difficult. They can lack legitimacy at the
local level. For example, many systems in
Sub-Saharan Africa have been substantially
distorted by colonial rule, which often used
local chiefs to maintain control and established more authoritarian and ethnic-based
structures than previously existed.18
However, it is wrong to presume that all
customary law discriminates against marginalized groups—or that western law does
not. For example, in the AmaHlubi community of KwaZulu Natal Province in South
Africa, women and men are considered
equal, with both entitled to own property.19
Furthermore, there are often good reasons
for people to choose to use customary systems. The state systems may lack legitimacy
or be seen as mechanisms of control used by
oppressive regimes. Or the state systems may

lack capacity, be inaccessible, or dramatically increase transaction costs.20 In rural
Tanzania, a perception that state institutions
can not supply law and order has led to the
emergence of “new” forms of organized village defense groups called sungusungu.
While technically illegal, the sungusungu are
often informally supported by the state,
given their success in reducing crime.21
Ignoring or trying to stamp out customary practices can also have serious negative
implications. Top-down reform can undermine informal institutions without providing viable alternatives, and the vacuum can
lead to power grabbing, lawlessness, or even
violent conflict. When neither formal nor
informal mechanisms are functioning,
human rights abuses and serious conflict
are more likely. For example, a study in
rural Columbia found the incidence of vigilantism, “mob justice,” or lynching to be five
and a half times greater in communities in
which informal mechanisms are no longer
functioning effectively and the state presence remains limited.22
A failure to engage with customary
systems may mean that discriminatory
practices go unchallenged. While state law
officially protects women’s rights in many
countries, local norms and power structures
continue to make it almost impossible for
women to claim these rights.
Considered attention to customary systems in broader institutional reform is fairly
new. But many governments, such as South
Africa, have begun working toward integrating customary institutions into wider
state frameworks (box 8.3).23 Many countries have attempted to integrate customary
land systems into formal land law systems
(box 8.7). Local NGOs and community
groups have also helped empower marginal
groups to challenge discriminatory norms
at the local level.
Establishing adequate and open legal institutions. Even when formal systems do
exist, they often lack adequate infrastructure or are so institutionally weak that citizens cannot claim their rights. Formal institutions may exist only in large cities, and
even then excessive delays, unfair procedures, or unreasonable costs may leave

159

160

BOX 8.3

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

State frameworks and customary institutions
in South Africa

The coexistence of various official state laws
in South Africa began as early as the 1830s
when chiefs in Cape Colony were granted
authority to enforce indigenous law (subject to review by a colonial official).24 At the
end of the apartheid era there were approximately 800 officially recognized traditional
communities and traditional leaders, 12,000
headmen, and 12 kings.
Since 1994, South Africa has worked
toward bringing traditional systems into the
state framework.Traditional institutions and
laws are all officially recognized in the 1996
constitution. After a long political process,
the national Traditional Leadership and Governance Framework Act was promulgated in
2004, setting out the roles and responsibilities of different levels of traditional leaders
and institutions, and their relationships to
the different levels of government.

BOX 8.4

Many celebrated the constitutional and
administrative recognition of customary
law, but there clearly are difficulties.
Customary practices have been criticized as
incompatible with rights in the constitution
and the new South African Bill of Rights.25
Of 800 traditional leaders recognized by
the state in South Africa, only one is female.
In an attempt to deal with this, the state
issued a regulation in early 2005 that
female participation must be at 30 percent
by the end of the year, but there is no consensus on how this might be achieved. Recognizing the difficult task of effectively
integrating the different systems, the South
African model aims at “progressive alignment” with the constitution.
Source: Adapted from Chirayath and others
(2005).

The impact of legal aid in Ecuador

As in much of the rest of the world,
Ecuador’s poor face numerous barriers in
using the legal system. Women considering
claims against their former spouses may
face an added obstacle: physical violence.
As part of a larger judicial reform effort,
three local NGOs—Centro Ecuatoriano para la
Promoción y Acción de la Mujer, Corporación
Mujer a Mujer, and Fundación María Guare—
provide legal information and representation
as well as psychological counseling and referrals to shelters.A survey in 2002 revealed that
women’s use of legal aid clinics reduced the
probability of severe physical violence after
separation by 17 percent.Legal aid clients also

attained better legal and economic results
than nonclients, raising their chances of
obtaining a child-support award by 20
percent and their chances of receiving a childsupport payment by 10 percent.
Receiving assistance from the legal aid
clinics also had intergenerational impacts.
Child-support payments increased the probability of the child attending school (by 4.8
percent) as did the lower incidence of violence. Anecdotal evidence also suggests that
the payments, a small but important source
of family income, were used to pay for food.
Source: World Bank (2003g).

them inaccessible to much of the community. 26 Institutions can also be inaccessible
if people do not know their rights and cannot navigate the systems charged with protecting them.
A large array of information campaigns
has informed citizens about their rights
(discussed above). But even if people know
their rights, they may have limited capacity
to navigate the system. Access to legal services is often restricted or costly. In Honduras, legal fees to obtain a monthly
alimony of 100 lempiras (US$5.30) in a

child-support case could amount to as
much as 2,000 lempiras (US$106.00), or
almost two years of alimony. Adding to the
costs are requirements that parties be represented by lawyers. For example, most Latin
American countries do not permit selfrepresentation, effectively denying access
based on economic status. Legal aid can
increase people’s access to basic legal services
and the courts (box 8.4). So can community
mediation centers, lay judges, and mobile
courts. The mobile courts introduced in
remote areas of Brazil in 1999 have been
replicated in the Philippines and Mexico. In
Guatemala, 24 mediation centers have been
created, employing mediators fluent in
Spanish and local Mayan languages.27
In some situations, social movements
provide the support for people to use the
courts and claim their formal rights, as with
the landless peasant movements in Brazil
and Mexico. In Argentina, too, unemployed
factory workers have occupied closed factory sites and pursued their rights through
the courts and the legislative process. In
other cases, civil society organizations have
assisted groups in claiming their rights—as
in the “right to health” cases discussed in
chapter 10.
Civil unrest and conflict may further
weaken legal institutions. In Sierra Leone, a
decade of civil war left the justice system in
shambles: courthouses were destroyed, and
judges, lawyers, and police officers were
killed or forced to flee. During the conflict
in Liberia, more than three-quarters of the
population left their homes.28 In Bosnia, 2.3
million people—more than half the country’s population—fled their homes during
and immediately after the war. To prevent
the return of minorities, many property
records were destroyed or tampered with.
Reestablishing legitimate legal institutions is crucial to restoring such people’s
personal and property rights and enhancing
confidence in newly established governance
structures. In postwar Bosnia, the Dayton
Agreement established the Commission for
Real Property Claims of Displaced Persons
and Refugees, which collected claims for
318,780 properties. As of June 2003, it had
issued about 290,000 final decisions on
property titles.29

Justice, land, and infrastructure

Improving crime and personal
security policies—breaking
crime-related inequality traps
The cycle of inequality, crime, victimization,
and discrimination exemplifies the processes
by which inequality traps, outlined in chapter
2, are perpetuated. Marginal groups are not
only more likely to move into criminal
behavior, they are also more likely to be victims of crime. Furthermore, discriminatory
practices in the justice sector mean that marginal groups are more likely to experience the
law-and-order side of the legal system—black
men in the United States are incarcerated on
drug charges at a rate 13.4 times that of white
men, bearing little relation to differences in
offenses30—and are less likely to have access
to institutions charged with protecting them.
At the same time, given their role in shaping
these processes, legal institutions are also
places for change—that is, vehicles for challenging inequality traps.
Breaking the cycle of inequality, crime, and
violence. Traditional approaches to reducing crime and violence based on increasing
mechanisms of control and harsher sanctions have failed to reduce crime. By contrast, promoting protective strategies and
minimizing the risk of crime have more
success at lower cost.31
To target the many risk factors of increased crime, crime prevention programs
often require support from the judicial
services, social services, health, education,
media, police, local government, civil society organizations, and the private sector
(box 8.5). Local governments and police
services often coordinate such programs.32
Many more effective interventions target children and adolescents, who are seen
as particularly at risk of falling into criminal behavior.33 Preventative interventions
include family support and parenting skills
programs, early childhood development
programs, special needs programs, afterschool care, antibullying programs, life
skills and cultural programs, and community participation programs.34
School-based interventions have targeted
youth crime and have kept young people in
schools in many countries.35 Tilsa Thuto is a
school crime prevention program imple-

BOX 8.5

161

Bogota, Colombia: civic culture program

Unlike most Colombian cities, Bogota—a city
previously considered unsafe and violent—
has seen a huge reduction in crime since the
early 1990s and a substantial increase in citizen perception of safety.
The city’s administration targeted civic
culture and education, urban planning and
safety, and the regeneration of public spaces.
Individual and community behavior were
changed by establishing a citizen disarmament program; restricting alcohol consumption and use of fireworks; increasing the
number of social service centers; enhancing
awareness through media campaigns and
educational programs; preventing domestic
violence and child abuse; strengthening the
capacity of the police and the judiciary to
deal with crime, violence, and victimization;

enhancing neighborhood watch programs;
and revitalizing urban public spaces. Employment and educational programs were introduced to support populations most at risk.
No longer one of the most dangerous
cities in the western hemisphere, Bogota has
seen remarkable results.The homicide rate
fell from 80 per 100,000 inhabitants in 1993
to 22 in 2004, with homicides related to
intoxication falling dramatically. By 2001,
6,500 weapons had been turned in and gun
confiscations fell from 6,000 in 1995 to 1,600
in 2003. Arrests for homicide, assault, and car
theft rose by 500 percent between 1994 and
2003 (with no increase in police personnel).
Sources: Llorente and Rivas (2005), World Bank
(2003a).

mented in 42 schools in Soweto, South Africa,
in 2000, in areas known for high levels of
crime, unemployment, and poverty.36 The
program—established in partnership with
the department of education, community
organizations, and local police—creates safer
schools through the active participation of
students, teachers, parents, school administrators, and the local community in different
training modules. Both teacher and student
attendance at school increased by some 70
percent, acts of violence and aggression fell by
67 percent, and the pass rate increased by an
average of 78 percent.
Alternative ways of dealing with young
offenders have also been effective in breaking the cycle of crime. Interventions include
diversion programs, restorative justice, alternative sentencing, and reintegration projects. Diversion programs aim to move
young offenders into welfare-based programs, as with attempts in Africa to keep
street children out of prison. Restorative justice programs, such as community conferencing, mediate between offenders and those
affected by the crime, helping to reintegrate
young offenders into their communities.
Noncustodial sentencing, such as community service orders, is used in different parts
of Africa today to promote the reintegration
and rehabilitation of offenders.37
Increasing personal safety. Appropriate and
accessible police and support services for all

162

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

are crucial. Violence against women, a huge
problem in many parts of the world, is exacerbated by underreporting, inadequate support systems for victims, discriminatory
practices within justice sector institutions,
and the lack of adequate sanctions for perpetrators. Many governments have attempted
to address the problem by introducing more
severe sentences for perpetrators, establishing remedial programs for offenders, and
running gender-sensitive training programs
for police and the judiciary.
More recently, some countries, including Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Peru, and
Uruguay, have set up women’s police stations.
Other countries have set up police cells for
women in regular police stations. These services have shown mixed results.38 Women’s
police stations have increased reporting of
abuse and the likelihood that women will
receive medical and social services. But critics
argue that services encourage regular police
to abdicate responsibility for crimes against
women and that women officers have not
necessarily demonstrated better attitudes
toward victims of violence. Where stations
are working fairly well, their efforts are often
undermined by other parts of the justice system, as prosecution rates remain unchanged.
The notion that the physical environment
can increase personal safety has been an integral part of many recent crime prevention
strategies,39 and it has been applied to cityplanning, public transport systems, parks and
recreational spaces, low-income housing, and
downtown areas where people feel most vulnerable to violence and crime.40

Toward greater equity
in access to land
Land is a key asset for poor people. Owning
it provides a means of livelihood to many,
facilitates access to credit markets, has an
insurance value, determines influence in
local politics, permits participation in social
networks, and influences intrahousehold
dynamics. That is why inequality in the ownership of land has such far-reaching consequences for the distribution of well-being
and the organization of society for generations to come. Yet landownership in many
countries is highly unequal, substantially
more so than income or consumption.

Building on chapters 5 and 6, we argue here
that there are strong equity and efficiency
reasons for addressing inequalities in land
distribution—both rural and urban—and
then discuss the experience with land reform
and options for broadening access to land:
providing security of tenure, improving the
functioning of land markets, and implementing cost-effective land redistribution.

Equity and efficiency reasons
to address inequalities
in land distribution
Inequalities in landownership in dozens of
countries can be traced to interventions over
the past 500 years to establish and support
large farms at the expense of indigenous peoples and the local peasantry. This historical
discrimination against certain groups—or
more generally a lack of legitimacy for the
prevailing pattern of landownership—offers
a rationale for equity-enhancing reforms.
Additional motivation comes from the fact
that the landless are among the poorest in
developing countries.41
Access to land can give the poor more
voice in the political arena and can lead to
higher investments in children’s education,
arresting the intergenerational transmission
of poverty. Galasso and Ravallion (2005), in
their study of the Food for Education program in Bangladesh, find that villages with
more unequal distribution of land were
worse at targeting the poor. This is consistent with the view that land inequality is
associated with less power for the poor in
village decision making. Land inequality has
also been found to impair the ability of
communities to engage in socially optimal
collective action, resulting in the underprovisioning of public goods. It also contributes
to social tensions that can lead to considerable upheaval, as in Southern Africa.42
Inequalities in landownership can weigh
particularly heavily on women. Land rights
(and control of other assets) often reside
with the head of household, which has
implications for intrafamily bargaining
power and control of resources. Women
with secure land rights (including inheritance on the death of a husband) are more
likely to engage in independent economic
activity, a result that has positive economic

Justice, land, and infrastructure

and equity implications for the household.
Inheritance rights that disadvantage women
are of particular concern in Africa, where
they are often based on customary institutions that conflict with constitutional
norms and international conventions on
women’s rights. In fact, insecure inheritance
rights pose an additional burden on widows
who lose their husbands, often through
HIV/AIDS.43
There are strong efficiency reasons to
address inequalities in land distribution.
Pervasive imperfections in land and financial markets in developing countries reduce
investment in land and keep countries from
efficient land allocations (chapter 5). These
effects—together with lower human capital
investment, reduced social cohesion, and
distorted political power—are consistent
with a positive association between more
unequal land distribution and lower GDP
growth (figure 8.1).44

Experience with land reform
The discussion here implies that redistributing land could enhance equity and efficiency. This is likely to be true, but there are
significant hurdles in practice. For instance,
the specter of land redistribution can also
worsen efficiency, because farmers are
reluctant to invest in land that they might
lose. Or political imperatives can override
sound program design. Successful land
reforms—such as in Japan, the Republic of
Korea, and Taiwan, China—are rare and
often associated with exceptional events,
such as war or political upheaval. Indeed,
the history of land reforms is littered with
partial successes and failures.
In India, abolishing the land rights of
rent-collecting intermediaries45 has been
highly successful, whereas the implementation of landownership ceilings and laws to
protect tenants was, with few exceptions,
half-hearted. The absence of political leadership has been identified as the “prime reason
for the poor implementation of land reforms
in India.”46 Still, where tenant protection was
implemented seriously—primarily in West
Bengal—it helped improve productivity.47
But restrictions on subleasing land by beneficiaries (or their children) tend to reduce the
scope for productivity-enhancing land trans-

163

Figure 8.1 Unequal initial land distributions go together with slower economic growth
Average GDP per capita growth, 1960–2000, %
8
Taiwan, China
Rep. of Korea

6

Japan

Malaysia

4

China

Thailand

Vietnam

Indonesia

Dominican Rep.
Sri Lanka
Egypt
Brazil
India
Colombia
Paraguay
2
Mexico
Costa Rica
Guatemala
Kenya
Argentina
South Africa
Peru
El Salvador Honduras
0
R.B. de Venezuela
Nicaragua
–2
1.0

0.9

0.8

0.7

0.6

0.5

Initial land distribution (Gini coefficient, inverted scale)
Source: World Bank (2003i).
Note: Land distribution is measured using the Gini coefficient.

fers. And the fact that both tenants and landlords have rights to the same plot of land
severely undermines investment incentives.48
In Latin America, where the potential for
land reform should have been highest given
the high inequality of landownership,
reforms have generally been “incomplete.”
Beneficiaries have often lacked the tools to
become competitive and, as a result, the
impact on poverty has been disappointing.49
In Kenya and Zimbabwe, postindependence
reforms were quite effective but short lived
for political reasons.50 In South Africa, the
government’s land redistribution program
in the late 1990s fell way short of its targets
but recently gathered steam (box 8.6).
Clearly, both the politics of land reform and
its implementation are complex.
Why the rather disappointing results
from attempts at land reform? First, given
that the motivation for land reform is often
to address political grievances, efficiency
and poverty reduction tend to be secondary.
Guided by short-term political objectives,
bureaucrats often targeted high-productivity areas rather than high-potential areas,
resulting in costly land acquisition and limited scope for sustained productivity
impacts. Central administration of the programs also often meant that a large portion
of land reform budgets was spent on the

0.4

0.3

164

BOX 8.6

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Land reform in South Africa: picking up steam

To redress apartheid-era asset inequality,
South Africa embarked on land reform in
1994 with a program that rested on redistribution, restitution, and tenure.Targets for
redistribution were ambitious: the government aimed to transfer 24 million hectares
of agricultural land (30 percent of the total)
to about 3 million people between 1994
and 1999. Under the program, self-selected
groups use grants to purchase land from
willing sellers and to invest in the land’s
development. But by February 2005, only
about 3.5 million hectares had been redistributed to 168,000 households. Restitution
proceeded at a snail’s pace—only 41 of
79,000 claims were settled between 1995
and 1999. And progress on tenure in the former “homelands” was equally slow.
After this sluggish start, some key
changes accelerated the restitution and
redistribution programs.The Restitution Act
was amended to allow for negotiated settlements, speeding the process considerably;
previously all claims had to be settled in
court. By March 2005, more than 58,000
claims were settled, and all claims are scheduled to be resolved by March 2008.
The redistribution program was
improved in 2001, making it more flexible
and decentralized.The grants for land
purchase and farm development now follow
a sliding scale, depending on the contribution by the beneficiaries, and can be obtained

by individuals as well as groups. Approval
authority is now delegated from the minister
to the provincial directors of land affairs. As a
result, redistribution has significantly
increased. For the first time since 1994, land
delivery is now constrained only by the
budget for it.
But some big challenges remain. Pressure
is growing from civil society on government
to meet the revised target of redistributing 30
percent of agricultural land by 2014. Restitution settlements can be complex when rural
claims target highly productive, capital-intensive farms and the claimants refuse, as is their
right, to accept financial compensation,
instead of the physical restoration of the
claimed land.The agricultural impact of the
redistribution scheme has been stunted by
an inappropriate emphasis on collective
farming and a lack of beneficiary power in
decision making.The land market continues
to be biased against family farming through
costly restrictions on subdividing agricultural
land and a regressive land tax dating from
1939. A new land tax based on the value of
unimproved agricultural land could provide
incentives for large farms to sell unused or
underused parcels. New legislation that transfers communal lands from state to community ownership is now in place, but it still
needs to be implemented.
Sources: World Bank (2003i), van den Brink, de
Klerk, and Binswanger (1996).

wages and salaries of civil servants rather
than used to benefit the poor. The prospect
of gaining access to valuable real estate,
instead of having to put in sweat equity to
develop a piece of land, undermined the selftargeting properties of reform programs,
often politicizing beneficiary selection.
Second, the relationship between farm
size and productivity depends on the type of
crop, quality of land, degree of mechanization, and such associated factors as marketing and credit. For most crops, under normal
availability of mechanical services, production is neutral to farm size. But when
management requirements are substantial
(labor-intensive crops, erratic weather conditions, frequent pest incidence) family
farms—as opposed to larger, wage-labor
farms—can be more efficient because of
advantages in supervising labor. By contrast,
large farms often have better access to input
and output markets, financing, and technical

assistance. Such advantages can be countered
if small farmers coordinate their efforts
through cooperatives.51 If policymakers do
not properly account for all these conditions
in land reform schemes, efficiency can suffer.
Third, many traditional land reform
efforts failed to provide beneficiaries with
secure long-term rights backed by a wellfunctioning and equitable legal system.
Affordable channels to adjudicate land
access and ownership claims must be open
to everyone. Without such channels, disadvantaged groups cannot take full advantage
of tenure security, land market, and distributive reforms. Even with full property rights,
underdeveloped credit and insurance markets limit the use of land for collateral.
Fourth, the full productivity benefits of
land reform cannot be realized without
complementary inputs and training; putting land in the hands of inexperienced
farmers without the needed support often
led to high rates of desertion.52 More generally, a broader rural development strategy
is required to complement land reform
because rural households get their livelihoods from several different sources. This
has implications for the design of land
reform (for example, determining viable
farm size) and highlights the importance of
investments that can facilitate off-farm
employment, such as education.

Broadening access by improving
the security of tenure
The benefits of secure tenure for rural
households are well known: higher productivity, greater access to credit, higher propensity to invest in physical assets (figure 8.2)
and the education of children, and time and
effort saved in securing land rights.53 Further benefits arise from removing the discretionary power of bureaucrats to decide
on the allocation of land (improved local
governance was mentioned as a benefit of
property rights reforms introduced after
1992 in Mexico).54
These benefits are observed also in urban
contexts. Capitalizing on a natural experiment that allocated land titles to some
squatters but not others in a poor suburban
area of Buenos Aires, Galiani and Schargrodsky (2004) found significant effects of

Justice, land, and infrastructure

titling on housing investment, household
size, and school achievement. The quality of
houses in titled parcels was higher. Titled
households had fewer members (even
though their houses were larger), and they
seemed to invest more in their children’s
education. In India, unclear land titles combined with unreliable courts were found to
limit the supply of land and discourage
investments. Southern states tend to have
higher tenure security, which increases the
share of modern retailers. Evidence from a
massive urban squatter titling program in
Peru suggests that titling resulted in more
work done outside the home and substitution of adult for child labor.55
Formal land titling is one way to provide for secure tenure, but titling takes
time and can be expensive. Thailand, the
first country with a national program,
completed the program this year, 20 years
after its inception. One solution is to allow
alternatives to conventional private land
titles, especially in urban areas.56 In
Trinidad and Tobago, a 1998 law authorized three incremental levels of statutory
security, each requiring additional documentation and commitment from the settler and the government. In one year, an
estimated 80 percent of informal settlers
on state land had applied for the lowest
level.57 Because many of these instruments
do not require prior physical planning,
infrastructure servicing, and surveying of
settlements, they can offer widespread
coverage at lower costs. The limitations on
transfer associated with many of these
instruments also check the tendency of
some informal dwellers to capitalize land
subsidies immediately through land sales.
Several countries have taken steps to
require joint titling of land in the names of
husband and wife, bolstering women’s
effective right to land, particularly during
their husbands’ absences. Vietnam has targets for the joint titling of land as part of the
Vietnam Development Goals, incorporated
in its Poverty Reduction Strategy. Attention
to women’s land rights is particularly
important when women are the main cultivators, when out-migration is high, when
control of productive activities is differentiated by gender, or when high levels of adult

165

Figure 8.2 Title to land increases investment and access to credit
Relative increase in investment
(untitled land = 100)
250

Relative increase in access to credit
(untitled land = 100)
500

200

400
Titled
land

150

300

Titled
land

200

100
Untitled
land

50

100
Untitled
land

0

0
Brazil
1996

Thailand
1988

Honduras
1996

Source: Feder (2002).

mortality and unclear regulation could
undermine a woman’s livelihoods in case of
her husband’s death.58
Despite potentially large benefits from
titling, there are challenges in urban and
rural contexts. In urban areas, access to
credit may not increase if banks are unwilling to accept titled shanties in marginal
areas as collateral. And where squatters’
land is valuable, titling programs can be
subverted by powerful interests who use the
opportunity to relocate squatters to marginal areas—for example, in Phnom Penh,
Cambodia. This does not reflect a problem
with titling per se, but suggests that when
the urban poor lack voice and governance is
weak, titling programs can backfire.59 One
way to protect squatters from predatory
urban developers would be to grant them
group land rights as a first step toward individual titles. 60
Some studies indicate that formal land
titles in several African countries did not
bring the expected benefits in higher
incomes and investment. This may reflect
weaknesses in the institutions responsible
for registration and recordkeeping and for
the adjudication of rights and resolution of
conflicts. In some cases, it appears that
indigenous tenure was already sufficiently
secure.61 It may thus be more appropriate
and more cost-effective to strengthen the
security of tenure through institutions that
combine legality with social legitimacy. This

Thailand
1988

Honduras
1996

166

BOX 8.7

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Clarifying how customary rights fit
with formal systems

Customary land tenure is created,
maintained, and protected by norm-based
customary systems at the local level. Rights
to land, whether communal or individual,
are generally based on family lineage or
membership in a particular cultural grouping. Exchanges through sales or rentals are
limited to members of the community. Customary systems are dominant in most
African countries and in indigenous areas of
many Latin American and Asian countries.
Having evolved over long periods in
response to local conditions, they are often
quite flexible. Problems arise when transfers
to outsiders become widespread or internal
land dispute resolution mechanisms
become inadequate.
There have been many efforts to make
the transition from collective or customary
systems to more individual landholdings. But
the transition, if not properly managed, can
end in disaster, such as in Kenya. Because the
elimination of lineage rights and the legalization of land sales were not accepted by rural
populations, conflicts over land, sometimes
violent, ensued between those claiming land
under customary norms and those seeking
to enforce the new rules.
Botswana has had more success. Since
1970, the authorities have gradually
strengthened individual rights, starting with
the right to exclude other people’s animals
and to fence arable lands. Common law residential leases for commercially valuable
land have been introduced, as have laws
allowing the allocation of land to all adult
citizens, whether male or female, married or
single (Adams 2000 and Toulmin and Quan
2000 in World Bank 2003i). South Africa is

just starting down the road to communal
land reform, having recently passed legislation that will transfer state-owned land to
communities and create democratic, transparent, and secure property rights regimes
in these areas.
Mexico made a hybrid transition from
collective land—known as the ejido
sector—toward more individual landholdings. Ejidos are rural communities modeled
after a mixture of soviet-style collectives
and precolonial indigenous social
structures. Reforms in 1992 strengthened
the self-governance of ejidos, allowing them
to choose a property rights regime. Each
ejido could choose whether land would be
held under communal or individual ownership and issue property rights certificates
accordingly. By 2001 the program had
issued property certificates to more than 3
million households and given secure land
rights to more than 1 million households
that previously had no formal recognition
of occupancy rights (World Bank 2001d).
Clarifying how customary rights—in
rural and urban areas—relate to the formal
system of property rights protected
through modern law is important for millions of people. It is also important for
expanding the scope for outside
investment, particularly in urban areas.
Experience with managing the intersection
between the two systems suggests the
importance of effective dispute resolution
mechanisms and a transparent and welldefined trajectory for transition, with the
extension of secure landownership rights to
an entire group as an effective and low-cost
first step (World Bank 2003i).

approach is particularly pertinent where
customary tenure practices predominate.
Recognizing customary rights and institutions in the law helps protect large populations that are governed by them and builds
a bridge to the formal system (box 8.7).
Clearly, the complexities of engaging with
customary justice systems outlined earlier
in the chapter need to be considered—and
when formalizing customary rights, care
should be taken not to simply codify existing inequities, particularly for women.
Broadening access by improving the functioning of land markets. Land markets,
both in sales and rentals, can in theory do

much to equalize land access. In practice,
however, land sales/purchases are generally
not an avenue to expand access by the poor
and may actually reduce it. High transaction costs, undeveloped credit markets, and
high prices for land, reflecting its collateral
value and any government subsidies to
crops, lead to thin sales markets that keep
poor farmers out altogether. This suggests
that land sales markets will not contribute
to greater equity in landholdings, especially
in settings characterized by long-standing
discrimination against specific groups,
unless the government relieves the savings
constraints of the poor through subsidies
(as we will see in the next section).62
Distress sales of land by the poor can
occur in risky environments where small
landowners do not have access to insurance.
Thus, they are unable to smooth consumption through mechanisms other than land
sales, such as safety nets.63 In a comparison of
land transactions in Indian and Bangladeshi
villages during 1960–80, Cain (1981) found
that poor farmers who had access to safety
net programs used the land market to
augment their landholdings and undertook
productivity-enhancing investment. Distress
sales to obtain food and medicine predominated when safety nets were absent.
While government interventions to impose restrictions on the transferability of
land can undermine investment incentives
and depress off-farm activity, they can play
a role, especially during periods of transition. In many Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) countries the unrestricted
transferability of land led to a concentration of landholdings in the hands of a small
number of farm bosses, as poorer rural
households were enticed to sell their land in
conditions of uncertainty and incomplete
markets and information.64 Initially limiting the transferability of land to lease transactions rather than outright sales would
have been better.
A gradual transition may be preferable in
cases in which an equitable distribution of
land has been the primary instrument of
social protection, as in China and Vietnam.
Governments in both countries rightly perceive the tensions in active land sales markets, which could lead to efficiency-enhancing

Justice, land, and infrastructure

consolidation but also run the risk of
increasing the number of landless poor. In
China, the government is considering moving on several fronts, including developing
safety nets and rural finance and eliminating residency-based restrictions (hukou) on
labor mobility.
While land sales markets have ambiguous
impacts on equity, the equity case for broadening access to land rentals appears more
clear-cut. When farmers do not have access to
credit that would enable them to purchase
land outright, rental markets are an important avenue for enhancing productivity and
equity by facilitating low-cost transfers of
land to more productive producers (chapter
5). Rental markets also enable landholders
with low agricultural skills (or no desire to
farm) to seek employment in the nonfarm
sector while still earning a return on their
land.65 Evidence from Sudan suggests that
land rental markets do transfer land to
smaller producers. And in Colombia, rental
markets have been more effective than government-sponsored land reforms in bringing
land to productive and poor producers.66
If land rental markets have so much
potential to improve equity and efficiency,
why is there such a large variation in the
incidence of rentals across countries? One
reason is a lack of tenure security—or
trust that the security will last. Without it,
landlords are unwilling to rent out their
land for fear that they will not be able to
reclaim it. Other reasons include current
or past government interventions to
restrict tenancy, the availability of reliable
conflict resolution mechanisms, and imperfections in information.67 While concern about exploitation in sharecropping
arrangements may be justified,68 tenant
protection and rent ceilings can backfire.
Such restrictions on land rentals often push
transactions into informality or lock poor
farmers into less efficient and less equitable
wage-labor arrangements. Estimates indicate that new tenancy legislation in India
was associated with the eviction of more
than 100 million tenants, causing the rural
poor to lose access to about 30 percent of
the total operated area.69 Interventions to
enhance the bargaining power of the
poor—including better access to financial

markets, off-farm employment opportunities, and equitable contract enforcement
mechanisms—are likely to be preferable.
Well-functioning rental markets can be a
rung in the ownership ladder, but they probably are not in circumstances of extreme
inequality in landownership and power. In
these instances, options for directly redistributive policies need to be exploited.

Options for cost-effective land
redistribution to broaden access
Improving tenure security and promoting
land rental markets are good for both
equity and efficiency. Analysis and experience indicate that land redistribution is not
nearly as straightforward. It can be costly in
program resources and reduced productivity, and it can be an instrument of political
patronage. Substantial personnel and financial resources are necessary to assess and
purchase (or expropriate) land, select beneficiaries, and supply training and credit.
When does land redistribution make
sense? In some countries, redistribution
could be a necessary political step to
address historical inequities and stave off
violence. In others, it could simply be a tool
to shift underused land to more productive
uses while enhancing equity. In countries
where state landownership is high, land
redistribution could involve limited budgetary costs if bundled into a one-time transfer of state land to private ownership.
Conversely, in countries with strong traditions of tenure security, just the threat of
redistribution could undermine investment.
The feasibility of land redistribution also
depends on the instrument. Expropriation is
likely to be the most disruptive. Divesting
state lands and recuperating illegal settlements may be two cost-effective alternatives.
For example, the mayor of Brasilia (Brazil)
identified lands with uncertain titles and
negotiated the surrender of part of those
lands. In exchange, official titles were granted
to the remaining areas. Expropriating with
compensation and assisting land purchases
and rentals—for example, through community-driven land reform—are also feasible
alternatives. Subsidizing land purchases can
be costly, however, because land is often overpriced relative to its income generation

167

168

BOX 8.8

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

potential from productive use (reflecting its
speculative, insurance, and status value).
Also, subsidies are difficult to justify if the
current pattern of landownership is not considered legitimate.70
Market- or community-driven land reforms are a potential option. The reforms
tend to be decentralized and transparent,
allowing community members to obtain
resources for land access. They can be flexible, allowing for land rental or purchase
according to the willing-buyer-willingseller principle. Community-driven land
reforms often give beneficiaries full property
rights and involve coordination between
local government and NGOs to provide
access to training, technology, and credit. A
community-driven approach has been tried
in several countries, including Brazil,
Columbia, Guatemala, Honduras, India,
Malawi, and South Africa. But the programs
are relatively new, so rigorous impact evaluations are not yet available.
A land tax, possibly combined with an
output tax, can be an important complement. It can generate revenues to purchase
land to redistribute or encourage redistribution by disproportionately taxing large
landholders or owners of unused or underused land, both rural and urban (box 8.8).
Regardless of the instrument, common
lessons can be drawn from previous attempts
at land redistribution.

uting land does little. Beneficiaries must
be provided with a package of assistance
to ensure self-sufficiency and maximize
productivity. The right package will vary
by country but could include training and
credit. Technical assistance, such as help
elaborating farm plans and crop budgets
or instruction on new technologies, can
be a success factor for subsistence farmers
and those who lack commercial farming
expertise. Credit can allow beneficiaries
to make productivity-enhancing investments, for example in irrigation, fencing,
tools, or draft animals.
• Beneficiary selection and targeting. When
beneficiary selection is politicized, redistributed land will not always go to the
most needy and capable farmers. The
solution is to have transparent rules that
allow communities to understand exactly
how and why each beneficiary was chosen. Self-targeting—where potential beneficiaries seek out land for sale at low cost
and then apply for grants and/or loans—
can also be effective.
• Tenure security. Those who gain access to
redistributed land should be given clear
ownership rights. In some instances, it
may be enough to have less than full
ownership (such as a certificate of control or long-term lease) to reduce uncertainty, encourage investment, and
promote the benefits discussed above.

• Complementary
investments—training
and credit. Evidence from Latin America71
and Africa indicates that simply redistrib-

Providing infrastructure
equitably

Land and output tax combinations

Taxes on land can be an effective, nondistortionary tool for collecting local revenue and
facilitating land redistribution.They can also
encourage productive land usage by taxing
underused land at higher rates.This can be
attractive when large unproductive plots of
land (often held for speculative reasons) create artificially high land prices and limit land
access for poor farmers. But administering a
tax on land requires data on the size, value,
ownership status, productive capacity, and
output of each plot. Because it is hard for the
government to measure the actual degree
of land use, especially for large landholders,
there is a strong incentive for tax evasion.

One way to limit evasion by large landholders is to use a mix of land taxes and a
value-added tax (VAT). A VAT can have much
lower rates of evasion and facilitate accurate reporting of cultivation levels. Knowledge of true cultivation levels would then
limit the scope for overreporting the degree
of land use to evade higher tax rates for
underused land. In the absence of insurance
markets, a mix of VAT and land taxes can
also reduce the risk facing smallholders
because tax burdens would be correlated
with output fluctuations.
Sources: Assunção and Moreira (2001), World
Bank (2003i).

Infrastructure in most developing countries
is characterized by low and unequal provision—about 2 people of every 10 in the
developing world were without access to
safe water in 2000, 5 of 10 lived without
adequate sanitation, and 9 of 10 lived without their wastewater being treated72—with
many families suffering from inadequate
access especially in rural areas.
Economic opportunities are strongly
shaped by access to infrastructure. Much
infrastructure is traditionally government
provided and so is driven by the political
process. Financing constraints and technical
design challenges are very real but perhaps
easier to overcome. When more equal voice

Justice, land, and infrastructure

or the political interests of the governing
regime make for more broadly accountable
policies, infrastructure is provided in ways
that are supportive of the economic interests
of poorer groups—for example, in East
Asia’s intensification of irrigation and transport (see focus 4 on Indonesia). In more
unequal societies, those without influence
receive less and lower-quality access to public services—this often means the poor. This
inequitable access also applies to remote
regions and excluded groups, and sometimes it has a gender dimension. Even worse,
some infrastructure services (utilities especially) often become instruments of patronage and riddled with problems of inefficient
provision and corrupt practices.
As in the case for land, more equal access
to infrastructure would be good for equity
and will often be good for growth. This
requires addressing difficult financing issues,
constraints that limit the poor’s ability to
access infrastructure, and major accountability issues through institutional designs that
support more equitable response to needs.

More equitable access
to infrastructure is good
for growth and equity
There is solid evidence that infrastructure
investments broaden opportunities for people and communities by integrating them
into regional and national systems of production and commerce, and by improving
their access to public services. Location
strongly influences household market participation in Vietnam. And households with the
same characteristics and endowments yield
different returns in different geographic settings in parts of rural China.73 Leipziger and
others (2003), based on a sample of 73 countries, find that a 10 percent improvement in a
country’s infrastructure index is associated
with a 5 percent reduction in child mortality,
a 3.5 percent reduction in infant mortality,
and a 7.8 percent reduction in maternal
mortality, controlling for incomes and the
availability of health services. Microevidence
from rural India lends support to these
cross-country findings: the prevalence and
duration of diarrhea among children under
five are significantly lower for families with
piped water.74

Investments in basic water and energy
infrastructure can improve gender equity.
Around the world, the burden of gathering
and transporting fuelwood and water traditionally falls on women and girls. In
Ghana, Tanzania, and Zambia women
account for two-thirds of all household
time devoted to water and fuel collection,
while children—mostly girls—account for
between 5 and 28 percent of time spent on
these activities. In rural Morocco, having
wells or piped water increases the probability that both girls and boys will enroll in
school, with larger impacts for girls, who
are responsible for collecting water. Studies
in Pakistan show that poor access to firewood and water in rural areas means that
women work longer hours and have less
time for income-generating activities, with
impacts on the intrahousehold balance of
power. Women and children are also more
subject to health risks from indoor air pollution, given the disproportionate amount
of time spent inside the home. Electricity
in the home can reduce the need to burn
polluting fuels for light and cooking. And
improvements in electricity and gas distribution can eliminate time spent collecting
traditional fuels.75
Improving rural transport infrastructure can reduce transactions costs, expand
access to markets, and improve rural
incomes. It is estimated that nearly twothirds of African farmers are effectively
insulated from national and world markets
because of poor market access.76 In contrast, substantial investments in Indonesian roads over the last three decades have
allowed poor households to successfully
enter the market economy.77 And many of
the roads were built as labor intensive public works, making jobs available to
unskilled labor. Similarly, investments in
rural infrastructure (roads, bridges, culverts, and marketplaces) in Bangladesh
have deepened the vibrancy of the rural
economy for both agriculture and nonagriculture. Investing in rural roads is an
example of how expanding access to infrastructure can benefit equity and efficiency
in the long run, especially in areas with
large numbers of poor people and agroclimatic potential.78

169

170

BOX 8.9

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Lagging infrastructure in Africa

Infrastructure development in Africa is abysmal,
lagging behind the rest of the world in terms of
quantity, quality, cost, and equality of access.
Only 16 percent of roads are paved, the average
waiting time for a telephone connection is three
and half years, transport costs are the highest of
any region, and fewer than one in five Africans
has access to electricity. What can explain this
tremendous underdevelopment?
• Difficult geography and complex history. Distance from major markets, the Sahara Desert,
a shortage of natural ports, and vast tracts of
landlocked areas all increase transport costs.
Infrastructure development during colonial
times focused on building transportation
from resource sites to a port. And the
postcolonial division of Africa into many
small states drives up transport and energy
costs, with cumbersome border crossings, little regional cooperation on water and power
projects, and incompatible rail systems,
among other factors.
• Financing constraints. Lack of investment has
led to a deterioration in infrastructure, especially road transport. For instance, in nine East
African countries, maintenance spending
could cover only 20 percent of current
networks. Lack of disposable income means
low demand for infrastructure, and small and

scattered populations make economies of
scale difficult and require higher investments.
Widespread subsidies that go to the relatively
wealthy (the poor generally do not have connections to networked utilities) undermine
governments’ ability to expand access.
• Bad policies and poor accountability. Licensing, competition barriers, and corruption also
impede affordable infrastructure provision.
Despite the difficult geographic and structural factors, there are opportunities to improve
Africa’s infrastructure. One necessary step is to
boost investment, especially in rehabilitation
and maintenance. Higher public investment will
be needed. Private participation can help
finance some investments and increase
efficiency, but it is unlikely to solve Africa’s infrastructure problem. A sound institutional and
policy environment is required to attract fresh
investment and use it effectively.
Macroeconomic stability, freedom to repatriate capital, competitive taxes, contract enforcement, low corruption, and adherence to transparent rules are all important to private
investors, especially given the long payback
periods of many infrastructure investments. In
contexts in which policies are sensible but foreign private investment is hard to attract,
foreign aid can provide both financing for pub-

Is privatization the answer?
What accounts for the failure of infrastructure services to serve poor people, especially
in Africa (box 8.9)? Beyond the important
role played by historical and geographic contexts, there are major financing constraints
and governance challenges. In most developing countries, the public sector is fiscally
strapped—public investment in infrastructure in Latin America dropped from 3 percent of GDP in 1980 to less than 1 percent in
200179—and public spending requires taxes,
which can exert a drag on efficiency and can
mean forgone investments in other areas.
Local financial markets are generally not sufficiently developed to intermediate private
savings into long-term, risky infrastructure
investments (and, in any case, private savings
are often not large). Foreign private capital is
interested generally in large markets and even
then only when risks (including policy and
exchange rate risks) are acceptable. Stateowned infrastructure companies in many
countries—especially when political inequal-

lic provision and guarantees to help foster private participation. Prudent oversight, regulation,
and contract design can also ensure that public
and private financing are equitably and
efficiently used.
Increasing cross-border and regional cooperation is one way to make African
infrastructure more affordable. Streamlined border crossings and improved road and rail links
would reduce transport costs.Trade in power
and water resources could significantly cut costs
as well. For example, it is estimated that South
Africa could save $80 million a year in operating
costs by exchanging electricity with its neighbors (Masters, Sparrow, and Bowen 1999). Seeking innovative ways to broaden access is also
needed. Mozambique has tested a promising
approach: the government set up utility companies using diesel generators in rural areas and
then sold them to private investors below cost
for continuing commercial operation. Grants
from government, NGOs, or donors for community-driven infrastructure projects are another
possibility. Regardless of the approach, community and user involvement in infrastructure construction, maintenance, and management is one
of the most effective ways to expand access in
rural areas.
Source: World Bank (2000a).

ities are large—are often inefficient and
become instruments of patronage.
The 1990s were characterized by a massive
policy redirection toward private participation in infrastructure—reflecting the disappointment with ineffective state-operated
utilities, the promise of private funding, and
the greater flexibility offered by technological
change and regulatory innovation.80 But the
privatization wave bypassed many developing countries—Sub-Saharan Africa received
only 3 percent of total private infrastructure
investment in developing countries between
1995 and 200081—and even where private
capital became the dominant source of
investment (as in Latin America in the mid1990s when private investment was 2.5 percent of GDP), the results for equity were
mixed. There were many cases of privatization in which access for the poor improved,
especially when competition reduced political capture, but evidence suggests that private
operators also focused on wealthier segments
of the population (box 8.10).

Justice, land, and infrastructure

BOX 8.10

171

The distributional impact of infrastructure privatization in Latin America: a mixed bag

Private participation in infrastructure increased
dramatically in Latin America during the late
1990s. It went from $21 billion in 1995 to a peak of
$80 billion in 1998, dropping back to $20 billion
by 2002 (World Bank 2004f).The distributional
impact of private investment depends on how
efficiency gains are allocated between public and
private interests. In the best cases, privatization
can solve patronage problems and lead to greater
efficiency and equity. In worse cases, efficiency
gains can be shared between government and
private operators, or go primarily to the private
sector and lead to the consolidation of private
monopoly power (as in Mexican telecommunications).The outcome depends on the market and
accountability structure, including the effectiveness of regulation. Evidence from Latin America
shows that privatizations fall into each of these
categories, yielding mixed results for affordable
access by the poor.
Research from Argentina, Bolivia, Mexico,
and Nicaragua shows that utility privatization
increased access and enhanced service quality
for poor consumers in some cases (McKenzie
and Mookherjee 2003). In Chile, access to power
services increased greatly for low-income
groups during the first 10 years of private operation (Estache, Gómez-Lobo, and Leipziger 2001).
In Colombia, private utilities have connected
more of the poorest consumers than their public counterparts (World Bank (2001a)). Other
research shows that child mortality caused by
waterborne diseases fell by 5 to 9 percent in the
30 Argentine locales where water services were
privatized, with the strongest benefit—a more
than 25 percent decline in mortality—occurring
in the poorest neighborhoods (Galiani, Gertler,
and Schargrodsky 2002).

Despite the increases in access, there are
two reasons why privatization may have had
adverse effects on the poor through higher
tariffs and connection costs. First, privatization
can reduce the scope for cross-regional subsidies. One study (Campos and others 2003)
showed that the fiscal cost of utilities
increased a few years after privatization. This
was the result of “cream-skimming,” as
observed in Argentina. In some of the
provinces of Argentina, the water concessions
were for the large cities only, leaving the
responsibility for the small cities and rural
areas to the governments. Because the big
cities were cross-subsidizing the other regions
under public provision, privatization reduced
this source of funding and increased the net
fiscal costs once the transaction payoffs from
privatization had disappeared.
Second, connection costs and tariffs were
adjusted to cost-recovery levels following privatization, leading in many instances to higher
prices. In the early 1990s, public utilities in
developing countries subsidized an average of
20 percent of gas and 70 percent of water costs
(World Bank 1994). So when subsidies were cut,
services often became too expensive for poor
consumers. For the water concession in Buenos
Aires, the initial connection charge was set so
high that many users could not afford it
(Estache, Foster, and Wodon 2001), which was
an issue at the center of one of the first major
adjustments to the contract (Ugaz and Price
2003). The telecommunications sector in
Argentina also saw price increases following
privatization, largely to rebalance local and long
distance charges. But price increases are not the
norm—competition can drive them down. In

In the end, experience suggests that privatization alone is not the answer. Whether
infrastructure services are provided by private operators or public utilities seems less
important for equity and efficiency than
specific measures to improve access for the
poor, the structure of incentives facing
providers, and provider accountability to
the general public.

Expanding access and making
services affordable
Whether expanding general access benefits
the poor depends on initial levels of coverage. In many African countries, overall access
rates improved over the last decade, but the
bottom 40 percent of the population registered no gains at all (figure 8.3). This is not

Chile, the liberalization of the telecommunications market in 1994 reduced call prices by
more than 50 percent. In Argentina, thanks to
the entry of 21 new operators in the generation
sector, residential electricity customers enjoyed
a 40 percent drop in tariffs in the five years after
privatization (1992–97) (World Bank 2002b).
Ultimately, price changes depend on initial conditions, quality improvements, and regulatory
and institutional frameworks that determine
profits.
Episodes of privatization can be opportunities to strengthen accountability.They can generate public discussion about the current state
of service delivery, the options for reform, the
terms of the contract, and the tradeoffs under
consideration. Such occasions can be powerful
in overcoming collective action problems and
mobilizing consumers to express their interests.
But there is also the danger that, in the absence
of the voice of consumers, the process of privatization may be captured by narrow interests with
political connections and better information.
Indeed, that might be one reason why the public perception of privatization in Latin America is
so negative.82 There is evidence that privatization has been associated with increased power
for conglomerates and their foreign partners—
and with higher profits in noncompetitive sectors. Accusations of corruption during the privatization process, concentrated gains by a few
actors (whether made legally or illegally) contrasted with worker layoffs, and unrealistic customer expectations regarding service levels
(driven by politicians overselling the promise of
privatization) are also probably to blame for privatization’s negative public image (De Ferranti
and others 2004).

surprising. Given the low initial coverage in
many of these countries, the expansion
favored wealthier households. This does not
mean, however, that expanding access when
overall levels of service provision are low is
bad for equity. On the contrary—better to
expand access in this case than to focus on
upgrading quality, which would benefit only
the few who already have access.
To expand access to the poor, policymakers can set service obligations or create
incentives for providers. One way is to specify universal service obligations, which is
common in the telecommunications sector.83 While this is a worthy social objective,
it may not be practical in the short run when
starting from low access rates. That is why
service obligations should include details on

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

172

Figure 8.3 Poor families did not benefit from an expansion of access in Africa
Access to electricity for 1st and 2nd quintile (average)

Access to electricity for 4th and 5th quintile (average)

2nd period
100%

2nd period
100%

Nigeria Côte d’Ivoire
Ghana Cameroon

45°

75%

45°

Senegal
Zimbabwe

75%

Namibia

50%

Zambia

Benin

50%
Mali

25%
Nigeria
Madagascar
0%
0%

20%

40%

60%

80%

100%

Tanzania Madagascar
25% Rwanda
Kenya
Niger
Malawi
Uganda
Burkina
Faso
0%
0%
20%
40%

1st period

60%

80%

100%

1st period

Source: Diallo and Wodon (2005).
Note: First and last observation dates vary for each country. The first observation is in the early to mid-1990s and the last in the late 1990s or early 2000s. The average time between observations is seven years.

time frames and ways to finance the obligation when customers are unable to pay.
Defining connection targets is another way
to promote access. Targets are easy to monitor and can be enforced by financial penalties. Of course, connection targets can be
met only if customers are able and willing
to take up the service—and this depends on
their ability to overcome impediments,
including title requirements and income
and liquidity constraints (given the lumpiness of connection charges).
In many countries, new connections are
subsidized to meet access objectives and
keep providers solvent. New connections
can be subsidized from charges to existing
users, particularly if the group of existing
users is much larger and wealthier than
potential new users. The water and sanitation concessionaire in Buenos Aires adopted
this type of cross-subsidy after renegotiating an initial contract that charged onerous
connection fees to the poor. Government
financing for connection subsidies is also an
option, as is offering credit to consumers
for connection purchases. In Colombia, the
law requires that connection charges for
poor customers be spread over at least three
years.84

A complement to connection subsidies
are consumption subsidies, either through
means-tested transfers financed out of general tax revenues or through lifeline tariffs.
Subsidized lifeline tariffs require a transfer
from those with high levels of consumption
to those with low levels.85 When considering
lifeline subsidies, care must be taken to set a
threshold that is high enough to garner
political support, yet low enough that the
poor are the primary beneficiaries. For
instance, evidence from Honduras suggests
that their electricity subsidy is too high—
83.5 percent of residential customers benefit
from the subsidy (those consuming under
300 kWh monthly). Means-tested vouchers
for purchasing services are another subsidy
option. They are similar to means-tested tariff subsidies with added flexibility for the
user to select a service provider.86
Given the liquidity constraints of the
poor and the possible seasonality of use and
income, introducing flexibility in payment
is likely to help expand access. Increasing
the frequency of billing is one such option.
Prepayment devices, which facilitate budgeting for low-income households, are
another. On the downside, prepayment
could lead to frequent “self-disconnection.”

Justice, land, and infrastructure

Utilities could also allow customers to
choose from a menu of tariffs with different
combinations of fixed (standing) and variable charges. Allowing lower fixed charges
in exchange for slightly higher variable ones
could benefit smaller consumers.87
Enabling consumers to make certain
quality-price tradeoffs by encouraging
lower-quality services is also likely to be
beneficial. This can be done by allowing
lower standards of formal provisioning in
certain poor areas or by encouraging a
vibrant network of informal providers that
can either operate independently or through
subcontracting arrangements with the formal provider.
Water service provides an example. A
study using data from 47 countries shows
that informal providers such as pointsource vendors (kiosks) and mobile distributors (such as tanker trucks and carters)
systematically charge more than networked
providers, both public and private.88 Microeconomic evidence supports this. In Niger,
for example, wealthier households are more
likely to use networked rather than informal providers and pay less per unit consumed (figure 8.4). But informal providers
can offer a valuable service, because many
poor users cannot afford connection
charges or monthly lump-sum bills or live
in areas inaccessible to utilities for legal or
technical reasons. Recognizing that private
connections for all households may not be a
feasible goal in the near term, governments
and utilities can work with informal
providers. For instance, kiosk services could
be improved by subsidizing kiosk connections, increasing competition among kiosks,
and introducing performance measures and
quality standards.89 In Senegal, one study
argues for directing subsidies away from
private connections toward water provided
at standposts or by other informal
providers (box 8.11).
High tariffs for the consumer reflect the
pricing decisions of the utilities concerned
and the taxation decisions of local and central governments. Avoiding exclusivity in
contracts and liberalizing entry, including
through the participation of independent
private providers or communities in nonnetwork services, can help reduce costs.

173

Figure 8.4 Poorer households have lower-quality water and pay more in Niger
Percent of quintile
using each source

Average price CFA franc
per cubic meter

Water sources
Piped water
Neighbors, wells,
or rivers
Fountains or
vendors
100
89%

Average
price

77%

600

75
62%

61%
400

50%

50

43%
33%

30%
25

200

20%
9%

7%

3%

7%

9%
3%
0

0
1

2

3

4

5

Wealth quintile
Source: Bardasi and Wodon (2004).

BOX 8.11

The pro-poor agenda for urban water in Senegal

In 1995, the government of Senegal
launched sweeping reforms in the urban
water sector.The bankrupt public sector
utility was dissolved. A new state assetholding company was created to manage
the sector. And a private operator was contracted to run the system based on an international competitive bidding process.The
reform had positive outcomes for the poor,
thanks to strong government commitment,
connection subsidies in low-income neighborhoods, and well-designed operator
incentives. But tariff inequities and poor targeting of subsidies remain.
Subsidies targeted at the poor take three
forms: consumption subsidies, connection
subsidies, and construction of standposts in
areas lacking private connections.In Senegal,
consumption subsidies are delivered through
an increasing block tariff with a low “social tariff”for household consumption under 10 m3
per month.The problem with consumption
subsidies is that many poor families do not

have a connection at all or share a connection
with several other families, which bumps
them into a higher consumption block.
Connection subsidies have benefited
the poor, but those who could benefit most
are likely to be ineligible because they lack
title to their land and an established house.
The construction of public standposts has
expanded access but does not necessarily
provide the lowest-cost water.Tariffs on
water sold to licensed standpost vendors
are considerably higher than the subsidized
social tariff and vendors also charge an
overhead fee. Analysis of one NGO-run
standpost showed that users were paying
350 percent more than the social tariff rate.
Given these shortcomings, it would make
more sense to direct consumption subsidies
away from private connections and into
water provided at standposts or by other
informal providers who serve the poorest.
Source: Brocklehurst and Janssens (2004).

Moreover, many governments view utilities
and telecommunications as cash cows,
imposing indirect consumption taxes that
tend to be regressive where connectivity to
the formal system is high. In Argentina,
utilities generate about 1 percent of tax revenue; in addition to the income tax, there is

174

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

a 21 percent VAT plus municipal and provincial taxes. So indirect taxes can be as high as
55 percent in some municipalities. Reducing
such taxes would reduce tariffs.90
Naturally, benefits can be lower and costs
higher for investments in poor, remote
areas that are short on economic potential.
This analysis is not blind to those considerations, but also it recognizes the argument
that there can be long-run benefits from
greater inclusion of groups that are marginalized because of location or poverty (see
focus 6 on regional inequality).

Strengthening governance, voice,
and accountability
Infrastructure provision suffers from severe
problems of corruption and lack of accountability. Because infrastructure investments
are typically large and lumpy, and often
exhibit increasing returns to scale or network externalities, they are less amenable to
competition in financing and provision and
generate significant scope for corruption
and patronage. Politicians bribe public utility officials and pursue political goals by
transferring resources to politically influential groups, rather than encouraging utilities to expand service and cut costs.
One possible solution is to subject utilities to performance pressures and reduce
politicians’ willingness or ability to use them
for political purposes.91 The prudent use of

BOX 8.12

Addressing accountability and transparency in
telecommunications in Brazil and Peru

Brazil’s National Telecommunications Regulatory Agency has a Web site that provides
information on service price comparisons,
laws, and operator compliance. Its Advisory
Council (with civil society representatives)
assesses the agency’s annual reports and
publishes the findings in the official gazette
and on the Web. And an ombudsperson evaluates the agency’s performance every two
years. In 2000, it became the world’s first
telecommunications regulator to receive ISO9001 certification, an international standard
for meeting customers’technical needs.
Peru has made similar progress in
improving regulation by increasing
transparency.The Supervisory Authority for
Private Investment in Telecommunications

sets prices, ensures a competitive market, and
monitors compliance with concession contracts and quality standards.The agency sets
norms through a transparent process. Regulatory proposals must be supported by assessments of welfare benefits and best practices,
published in the official gazette, and undergo
a 30-day consultation period. Some proposals
also are subject to public hearings. In
addition, the agency has multiple dispute resolution mechanisms. Independent committees, supported by experts, resolve disputes
among service providers and an internal tribunal handles consumer complaints not satisfactorily managed by phone companies.
Source: World Bank (2004l).

regulation is another way to strengthen
accountability and reduce political capture
and corruption. Regulators have a key role
in ensuring that the public interest is being
served. This includes safeguarding the value
of public assets, upholding the sectoral
norms relating to health and safety, providing information about the performance of
the service provider, and enforcing compliance with contractual obligations.
If effective, regulation will have an
important impact on efficiency and equity.
Evidence comes from a study of the energy,
telecommunications, and water sectors in
Argentina that separated the benefits of
privatization from those of effective regulation. The study found that effective
regulation yielded operational gains more
than one-third higher than the gains from
privatization alone and equivalent to 0.35
percent of GDP, or 16 percent of the average
expenditure on utility services. Gains for
the lowest quintiles were proportionately
higher. Another study of 1,000 concessions
in Latin America found that even a moderately well-functioning regulator can temper
opportunistic renegotiation of contracts. It
concluded that the probability of renegotiation goes from 17 percent in a setting in
which a regulatory body exists to 60 percent
in settings it does not.92
Positive impacts of regulation are conditioned on the ability to insulate regulators
somewhat from pressures coming from
politicians and providers. Measures to
strengthen the independence of the regulator are paramount, and this may require a
separate agency with reliable and ringfenced funding and staffing. When assets
are decentralized, the regulatory agency can
be at the level of the central or regional government. In short, regulators should be
subject to substantive and procedural
requirements that ensure integrity, independence, transparency, and accountability
(box 8.12).
In situations in which local provision is
more susceptible to capture by local elites,
the central government can influence local
outcomes by using fiscal incentives to nudge
local governments toward broader access
and by reducing costs for the poor through
contingent intergovernmental transfers. This

Justice, land, and infrastructure

requires setting performance targets, eliciting competition among local governments,
and benchmarking to monitor performance.
It also requires sufficient policy autonomy at
the local level to meet the specified targets.
Monitoring the performance of providers
requires reliable information and performance benchmarks. This is more easily done
when there is a management contract or a
concession agreement with clear service obligations or when there are performance contracts with similar features for public utilities.
Community involvement can help monitor
compliance. A national regulator can benchmark local government performance when
infrastructure assets and policy decisions are
decentralized and provide useful information
for intergovernmental fiscal transfers.

Summary
Justice systems can do much to level the
playing field in the political, economic, and
sociocultural domains, especially when
societies press for equitable laws and for
transparency and accountability in their
implementation. Legal institutions can
uphold the political rights of citizens and
curb the capture of the state by the elite.
They can equalize economic opportunities
by protecting property rights for all and
ensuring nondiscrimination in the market.
They can force change in the social domain
by challenging inequitable practices. But

justice systems and legal institutions,
embedded as they are in the political and
socioeconomic structure of societies, can be
hijacked by special interests.
Broadening access to land can enhance
people’s opportunities to engage in productive activities. The distribution of land rights,
especially ownership rights, is skewed in
many countries, and challenging this pattern
is difficult. Past land reform efforts show the
need for a broader menu of policies that go
beyond redistribution through expropriation and include improvements to tenure
security and the functioning of rental markets. There is also scope for redistribution
through channels other than expropriation.
More equitable access to infrastructure
also has equity and efficiency benefits.
Broadening access to infrastructure brings
people closer to markets and services and to
the power and water they need for productive activities and daily existence, expanding
their economic opportunities. Expanding
affordable access for poor people and poor
areas requires tackling difficult financing
issues, designing subsidies effectively, working with informal providers, as well as
making providers more accountable and
strengthening the voice of beneficiaries. The
challenges of expanding access to justice,
land, and infrastructure and rooting out
corruption and elite capture remain significant for many developing countries.

175

taxation

focus 5 on

Raising revenues for equitable
policies
The publicly-provided, equity-enhancing programs outlined in this report, from early
childhood development interventions to water
supply, have to be financed. The resources to
fund them must generally be raised through
taxation. In fact, a key ingredient for a wellfunctioning public sector is a societal understanding that the quality of public services
depends on everyone paying their share of the
tax burden. Where this perception fails, the
social compact breaks down, and tax avoidance and evasion become widespread. This
leads to a vicious circle of free-riding and tax
rate increases, with adverse consequences for
the public finances, the quality of service delivery, and social cohesion.
It follows that the same institutions
that influence the quality and breadth of
service delivery also affect the overall tax
effort. Revenues, like spending, increase
with a country’s level of income, but the
quality of institutions—notably voice and
accountability—also matters, even when
controlling for income1 (see figure S5.1).
Voice and accountability can strengthen the
tax effort, as the services provided become a
reflection of the desires of the broader electorate rather than of a privileged few. Lindert (2004) argues that the expansion of
voice in twentieth-century Europe was the
driving force behind fashioning the social
compact that delivered high and equitable
growth alongside extensive public provi-

sion of services during 1950–80. In Chile
and the Republic of Korea, too, the emergence of representative institutions (and
higher incomes and administrative capacity) led to higher taxation and spending.
For similar reasons, high inequality in
the distribution of political power and
wealth may be prejudicial to the tax effort.
The low tax revenues in most of Central
America may reflect the low solidarity of
the elite with middle- and lower-income
groups: the small, wealthiest segment of the
population is unwilling to pay more in taxes
to provide public services, because the elite
can procure many private substitutes for
publicly-provided services, ranging from
public safety to education and roads.2
Resource rents can relieve the fiscal constraint on spending and in principle provide resources for equitable provision,
though they raise a host of governance
challenges. The ability of resource-rich
states to rely on “unearned” revenues can
undermine the accountability embedded in
the social compact underpinning sound
public finance.3 If not properly addressed,
the result may be wasted natural resources,
corrupt state institutions, and poorer
prospects for long-run growth and equity.
A few recent efforts to harness resource
rents for broad-based development in
countries with poor institutions aim to
introduce greater transparency and
accountability (see box on next page).
Foreign aid can also weaken the social

Fiscal effort increases with income and the quality of institutions
Tax revenue as a percent of GDP
45

Tax revenue as a percent of GDP
45

40

40

35

35

30

30

25

25

20

20

15

15

10

10

5

5

y = 0.0515x + 0.2049
R2 = 0.2799

0
–2

–1

0
1
Rule of Law

2

y = 5E-06x + 0.1848
R2 = 0.2227

0
3

0

10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 50,000
GDP per capita (US$ current)

Source: Authors’ calculations based on Kaufmann, Kraay, and Mastruzzi (2005).

compact, in much the same way as resource
revenues, by making governments less
beholden to civic interests.4 Some evidence
suggests that higher levels of aid are associated with lower revenue collection, especially among poorly governed countries.5
Donors should thus consider ways of supporting accountable institutions in recipient
countries—both for spending and taxation
(see chapter 10 for discussion of aid).
While institutional transparency and
accountability and linking good public
services to the taxes that fund them are
probably the first-order determinants of
successful revenue-raising, technical aspects
of public finance are important to reduce
efficiency costs. Lindert (2004) argues that
among industrial countries, high social
benefit/high tax societies—most notably
Scandinavia—have paid particular attention to tax design to reduce adverse incentive effects for labor effort and capital
investment to sustain growth. Tax design is
an immense area. From the perspective of
equity, the primary contribution of taxation is in providing the resources to fund
equity-enhancing spending. For this, the
principal criteria are minimizing efficiency
costs, administrative feasibility, and political supportability. For specific tax instruments, there can also be potential for
positive direct effects on equity. Here we suggest seven basic principles for mobilizing tax
revenues in ways that minimize efficiency
costs, while not undermining equity.6
1. Tax bases should be as broad as possible.
A broad-based consumption tax, for
example, will still discourage labor supply on the margin, but choices between
tradable and nontradable goods and
services will not be distorted, if all are
taxed at the same rate. A few items (such
as gasoline, tobacco products, and alcohol) may be chosen for higher tax rates,
because of their negative spillover
effects or because the demand for these
products is relatively unresponsive to
taxation. As a result, at any given tax
rate, efficiency costs will be relatively
low and revenues relatively high.
Income tax bases should also be broad,
treating all incomes, from every source,
as uniformly as possible.
2. Tax rates should be as low as possible (as
long as they raise sufficient revenue to
finance the appropriate expenditures of
government). Of course, the broader the

Focus on taxation

base, the lower the rate needed to generate a given revenue level. Lower rates
lower the efficiency costs. The general
rule is that the distorting effect of taxes
increases proportionally to the square of
the tax rate, so halving the tax rate
implies a fourfold increase in efficiency.
From an efficiency perspective, it is better to impose a single rate on a broad
base of taxpayers, rather than dividing
that base into segments and imposing
different rates on each one. This needs
to be balanced against the distributional
argument for graduated rate schedules.

low in developing countries. But in the
light of the second point, higher revenues should be sought first by closing
loopholes and enforcing greater compliance, and only later through higher marginal rates. Income taxes need to apply to
persons and to corporations. To keep tax
avoidance in check, the top marginal rate
of the personal income tax should be
fairly close to the rate of the corporate
income tax, which means that the rate is
not likely to be all that high.

3. Keep indirect taxes from being regressive.
With a few key exemptions, value-added
taxes (VAT) can be made less regressive.
Bird and Miller (1989) show in Jamaica
that exempting just five specific items from
VAT halves the burden on the poorest 40
percent of the population. Reducing
regressive excise taxes (as well as import
duties), on food or kerosene is also desirable. To make up for lost revenue from any
of these measures, there are often good reasons for higher taxes on private transport.
Export taxes are generally best avoided,
both on efficiency and on equity grounds.

5. Use property taxes more. Property taxes
account for only a small share of taxes in
developing countries. Their coverage is
typically not comprehensive, and assessments and collection rates are low.
Although nominal rates are also low,
governments usually find rate increases
in this very visible tax difficult to sell
politically. Simply raising the tax rate
usually would burden only the few actually paying taxes. Higher nominal rates
are likely to be acceptable only with better tax administration, such as more
comprehensive coverage, better and
more frequently evaluated assessments,
and enforced penalties for late payment.7

4. Raise personal income tax collections.
Collection from personal income taxes is

6. Consider inheritance taxes. Because heirs
have not earned the wealth, taxing gifts,

177

estates, and inheritances are consistent
with this report’s notion that predetermined circumstances should not affect a
person’s life chances.8 The efficiency arguments and the evidence are mixed: parents
may work more or less to avoid inheritance
taxes, and so may save more or less.
Although inheritance taxes may be difficult to collect and are likely to represent
only a modest reduction in wealth concentration, they may help prevent “extreme
concentrations of wealth from being
passed from generation to generation.”9 In
addition, a design that restricts transfers of
control rights on corporations can be good
for both equity and efficiency.10
7. Avoid implicit taxes. In many instances,
the most important taxes affecting the
poor are not formal ones levied through
the tax code, but implicit taxes, including
bribes11 and inflation. Other implicit taxes
to be avoided include many instances of
“regulation as taxation” such as quasitaxes imposed through controls on
trade, prices, credit, foreign exchange, or
capital markets.12

Managing resource rents transparently and equitably
High overall standards of transparency and
accountability are essential if the revenues
from extractive industries are to be used well.
However, as a second best solution in weak
institutions of accountability, many countries,
developed and developing, do not pool the
revenues from extractive industries with other
resources in a unified planning and budget
process. Instead, they are channeled to a dedicated fund, with special arrangements to
earmark the revenues for specific purposes;
define reporting and disclosure requirements;
and establish oversight bodies to ensure that
the arrangements are properly implemented.
One common objective of such revenue
management arrangements is to save part of
the revenue stream.The savings may be used for
short-term budgetary stabilization, so that
expenditures are protected from fluctuations in
prices and output.They may also be used to
build up financial assets, which can generate
revenues over an extended period, in some
cases constituting a perpetual fund, so that
future generations can benefit from the
revenues generated from the depletion of
resources. Azerbaijan, Chad, and Kazakhstan

have legislated savings to deflect pressures to
spend revenues quickly and unproductively.
Revenue management arrangements can also
serve distributional objectives.In Chad,the Oil Revenue Management Law assigns a share of revenues
to a “future generation fund”and specifies allocations for poverty reduction.Such earmarked allocations may be anathema to financial managers,but
they communicate and underline the government’s
commitment to prudent and redistributive spending.Nigeria’s experience in the Niger Delta during
the 1980s and 1990s highlights the resentment and
political instability that can result when local communities see no demonstrable benefits from the
extractive industries in their midst.The democratic
government has responded by creating a Niger
Delta Development Commission to fund local
development,with statutory contributions from the
federal government and the oil companies.
High standards of transparency and accountability are essential if the revenues from extractive
industries are to be used for development
purposes.To reduce the risk of diversion of
revenues, the Extractive Industries Transparency
Initiative (EITI), championed by the United Kingdom, calls on governments and extractive indus-

tries to report and reconcile payments and revenues. Some companies have taken the initiative
of publishing payments to government in some
of the countries in which they operate—for example, Shell in Nigeria and British Petroleum in Azerbaijan.The “Publish What You Pay”coalition advocates more systematic disclosure of companies’
annual reports and for home-country legislation
to make such declarations mandatory. Equally
important are improvements in government
reporting arrangements to ensure transparency
in the application of revenues generated by large
projects, such as the Chad-Cameroon pipeline
and the Nam Theun 2 hydropower project in the
Lao People’s Democratic Republic.
Revenue management arrangements are
likely to be more successful when they are the
product of a broad consultative process and the
rationale is widely understood.Timor-Leste has
facilitated broad civil society involvement in the
design of the revenue management arrangements
for its offshore oil and gas industry.Draft legislation on the industry’s commercial and tax regime
and legislation on a proposed petroleum fund,
have been published and subjected to numerous
public consultations.

Markets and the
macroeconomy

9

chapter

Achieving more equal access to markets is
fundamental to greater equity within societies as well as to moving countries onto
dynamic growth paths, thus enhancing
global equity. And both equity and growth
are best served by prudent macropolicy
(allowing for its countercyclical role). This
chapter is organized around the three markets for capital, labor, and goods (land was
covered in chapter 8) and the macroeconomy, exploring in each domain the potential and options for leveling the economic
playing field and strengthening voice and
accountability.

How markets relate to equity
Issues of design of market-related reforms
and macroeconomic policy are often allocated to ministries of finance, macro- and
trade economists, financial specialists, and
the like. By contrast, policies for equity,
including those for managing the consequences of market conditions and macroconditions, are typically considered the
domain of the providers of schools, health
centers, rural roads, safety nets, and justice
systems. This division of labor is profoundly
incorrect. The first set of policy domains is
as important for equity as the second.
The main issue is access. The playing field
is typically far from level in the workings of
markets. Barriers are intrinsically inequitable
when they privilege insiders’ access to capital,
good jobs, and favored product markets. But
they are also bad for the innovation and
investment that lie at the heart of modern
economic growth. That is why leveling the
playing field has the potential to be both
more equitable and more efficient. It is also
why broadening access typically requires
more economic competition and more political accountability.
178

There are two broad categories of
pathology that make the playing field
uneven (see table 9.1). The first pathology
arises when the influence of powerful
political and economic elites is bad for
equity and typically bad for growth—
whether this takes the form of outright
predation by political elites or excessive
influence of economic elites in the shaping
of policies and institutions, as under “oligarchic capitalism.” As we read in chapter
6, Mexico’s financial system through much
of the country’s history provides an example of elite capture—a protected, relational,
incumbent-oriented financial system.
The second pathology arises when policy
efforts to control or manage markets are
directed, at least notionally, to improve
equity, but with high costs for efficiency,
and are often captured by middle groups
(or indeed elites) in ways that harm the
poor. This had its extreme manifestation in
communist economic policy, but it is also
prevalent in societies in which markets play
a large role. Another example is when protection for formal sector workers, while
bringing valued benefits to some, slows
processes of restructuring and job creation
for other workers. Both pathologies, but
especially the first, reflect Adam Smith’s
concern that the influential may shape markets to serve the interests of incumbents. As
he said, “People of the same trade seldom
meet together, even for merriment and
diversion, but the conversation ends in a
conspiracy against the public, or in some
contrivance to raise prices.”1
The main purpose of this chapter is not
to diagnose from where such pathologies
came but to explore possibilities for change
that are feasible within the prevailing political, sociocultural, and economic context.
Casual observation suggests that change is

Markets and the macroeconomy

179

Table 9.1 Two pathologies in the interaction between equity and growth
Domain

Policy capture by powerful elites

Ill-designed attempts at equity with large inefficiencies

Financial markets

Protected, relational, incumbent-oriented financial system in
Mexico for much of its history

Directed subsidized credit in India and elsewhere, with
dismal repayment largely from better-off farmers

Labor markets

Repressive labor market conditions in the predemocratic
Republic of Korea

Excessive protection of formal sector insiders in the middle
of the distribution—India, South Africa

Product markets

Clove and timber monopolies in Indonesia

Protection for inefficient agricultural food production
(Philippines) and industry (Morocco) before trade
liberalization

Macroeconomic management

Regressive resolution of macroeconomic crises in Latin
America and Indonesia

Populist macroeconomic policies (Peru under García) that
fuel future (regressive) crises

possible. The Mexican financial system has
been reformed after the 1995 Tequila Crisis.
Moroccan industry was (partially) disprotected. And many countries no longer pursue populist macropolicy, especially after
they experienced its ill effects.
Reducing barriers to market access will
often bring initial benefits, or redistributions, not to the poorest but to middle
groups. There may even be temporary rises
in inequalities in parts of the income distribution, for example when there are increases
in returns to skills. This is desirable for efficiency and consistent with equity if institutions allow households and individuals to
respond to the new incentives, and there are
safety nets to manage those who are hurt. It
is undesirable, however, if it creates new
possibilities for middle groups to “hoard
opportunities” at the cost of future growth
and gains for the poor.2
Design choices will depend on the market and local context, including the political
context, but two cross-cutting issues are
worth highlighting. First, there is often an
apparent paradox: when systems are shaped
to favor those with influence and connection, economic liberalization should be
good for equity; however, that is not always
the case. Liberalization can also be captured
by the powerful, perpetuating inequitable
and inefficient economic structures—and
risking political and social backlash to market-oriented reforms. This is why liberalization needs to be designed in ways that
promote genuine competition and effective
accountability structures, whether in the
form of regulation, transparency, or other
forms of societal control, and sequenced
properly.

Second, while greater equity can be complementary to long-run prosperity, the second pathology vividly shows the potential
for inefficient choices in the name of equity.
Tradeoffs between equity and efficiency
exist. And even when there are aggregate
gains, protected incumbents will be losers,
at least in the short to medium term (in
economists’ jargon, changes will often not
be Pareto-improving). Whether societies
choose to compensate losers is a matter of
social welfare (especially if they are poor)
and political economy (especially if they are
not poor).
We now turn to the three markets for
capital, labor, and goods and the macroeconomy, exploring in each domain the
potential and options for broadening access
and strengthening accountability. Box 9.1
illustrates some of the interactions among
equity, inequality, and growth in China.

Achieving equity and efficiency
in financial markets
The performance of enterprises drives economic growth. An innovative and dynamic
enterprise sector requires low barriers to
entry, effective guarantees for property
rights, and access to finance. We focus on
the latter here. Unequal access to finance is
associated with reduced productive opportunities and reflects unequal influence.
Financial market liberalization can increase access, but it can also be captured.
Sound technical design and strengthened
accountability can help expand access
while reducing both the risk of capture
and disincentives to broader lending, thus
enhancing opportunities.

180

BOX 9.1

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Markets and development:
policy, equity, and social welfare in China

China looms large in any attempt to interpret development, especially the role of
equity in development processes. Hasn’t it
moved from a highly equitable form of
communism to extensive use of domestic
and international markets? And didn’t this
lead to both rising income inequality and
the most extraordinary pace and scale of
reduction in poverty and expansion in
social welfare in history? This looks, at first
glance, like a brute fact refutation of a central message of this report: that equity can
lay the basis for prosperous development.
An account along these lines misreads
change in China in important ways: many of
the changes were equity-enhancing in the
sense of leading to expansion of opportunities of the bulk of the population (chapter 6
discussed the institutional underpinnings of
these changes). Consider some of the major
shifts in Chinese policy that the literature
interprets as having driven growth and
income poverty: the institutional shift to the
household responsibility system allowing
peasants to produce for themselves (1979
and early 1980s), the expansion of township
and village enterprises (TVEs) and the massive indirect effects of opening to international trade (whole period), the opening to
inward foreign direct investment (especially
in the 1990s), and the huge internal migration flows. All these led to major expansions
in opportunity (and were major sources of
growth) for large segments of the population. Rural reform quickly expanded opportunities for most peasants.TVEs were
broadly dispersed. While the effects of international opening were concentrated
initially in coastal areas, they have
broadened in scope, both through the indirect effects of migration and the relocation
of industries inland.

By contrast, where investment has been
linked to connections and corruption, it is
clearly inequitable, in the sense of lacking
fair process and equality of opportunity to
all potential investors. In the long term, introducing fairer and more transparent process
will be important to sustained growth.
There were periods in which policyrelated shifts (such as selective opening, the
pricing of foodgrains, tighter controls on
internal migration, and access to urban jobs)
were associated with biases either against
inner provinces of China or against rural
areas.These were factors behind the rise in
inequality in outcomes and stagnating
income poverty between the late 1980s and
early 1990s.This was probably inequitable in
terms of rising inequality of opportunity. For
these cases there may have been some
tradeoff, but few observers argue that such
policy-induced biases were essential to Chinese growth, in contrast to the overall institutional change and opening.
Moreover, even using the much
narrower lens of income inequality, the periods when inequality fell (notably the early
1980s and the mid-1990s) actually had the
highest growth rates, not the lowest. And
the provinces where rural inequality rose
the least had the highest growth rates.
There are rising concerns in China over
the adverse consequences for development
of growing inequality, including in some areas
of social provisioning (in health, for example),
and concentrations of wealth through connections.But there is no evidence that these
brought benefits in income growth, the issue
of concern here, and most observers (and the
Chinese government) would see this as an
area in which policy could be improved.
Sources: Ravallion and Chen (2004), World Bank
(1997b).

Unequal access to finance
is associated with unequal
productive opportunities
and reflects unequal influence
As discussed in chapter 5, the access to
financial services and their cost are unequally distributed, especially in developing
countries. Many firms and households
complain that the right financial services
are not provided, that procedures for opening an account or getting a loan are too
cumbersome and costly (with high rejec-

tion rates), and that financial institutions
demand collateral, which (poorer) borrowers typically lack.
Financial institutions respond that they
cannot provide services profitably for technical and economic reasons. Poorer groups
have small savings, and seek small loans and
insurance (life, health, crop), which are
hard to provide. Smaller clients borrow frequently and repay in small installments,
making serving their needs very costly. And
the underserved are new and not experienced in business, making them poor credit
risks. But such reasons form only part of the
story. The microcredit movement and large
banks, such as Bank Rakyat Indonesia and
ICICI Bank in India, show that it is possible
to provide financial services profitably to
poorer customers and small firms. Access is
also unequal in areas of finance in which
enforcement is not as much of a concern—
such as deposit-taking.
Inequalities in access are also, in part, a
product of unequal influence. Incumbents
who benefit from restricted patterns of
finance may lobby to limit access to finance,
or erect other barriers to protect the rents of
established firms. Barriers to entrepreneurial
activity are indeed generally more onerous in
poorer, more corrupt, and more unequal
countries.3 Weak property rights are part of
the problem. But weak property rights can be
the outcome of political economy forces—
economic elites have an interest in the selective protection of property rights, because
they stand to gain more when security of
contracts and property depends on their
position, connections, and wealth.4
We are primarily concerned here with
the first pathology mentioned earlier,
namely the influence of economic elites on
the shaping of financial systems. In many
countries, a small number of wealthy families or groups exert extensive control over
the corporate sector, notably through control pyramids in which cross-shareholdings
lead to dominant control rights in extensive
parts of the corporate sector, often substantially in excess of the share of capital owned.
These wealthy families are typically linked
to political elites through economic deals,
family connections, and shared social and

Markets and the macroeconomy

181

Table 9.2 Financial policy and institutions are often captured by the few: case study evidence
Country

Evidence

Brazil

Public financial institutions in Brazil appear to have served larger firms more than private banks have (Kumar 2005).

Chile

Following liberalization in the late 1970s, many privatizations of state-owned banks went to groups of insiders (Larrain 1989).

Czech Republic

Mass privatization in the Czech Republic delayed the establishment of a securities and exchange commission, facilitating tunneling
(stealing assets by channeling to another firm owned by insiders) (Cull, Matesova, and Shirley 2002).

Indonesia

Market attributes large financial value for political connections, suggesting politics rather than economics determined access or
rents (Fisman 2001b).

France, pre-1985

Banks, protected and dependent on government support, lend to less productive firms (Bertrand, Schoar, and Thesmar 2004).

Korea, Rep. of

The opening up of new segments of financial services provision was dominated by insiders. Increasing openness primarily expanded
and strengthened the politically most connected firms (Haggard, Lim, and Kim 2003, Siegel 2003).

Malaysia

The imposition of capital controls in September 1998 primarily benefited firms with ties to Prime Minister Mahathir (Johnson and
Mitton 2003).

Mexico late 1800s

There was capture of the financial sector in Mexico in the late 1800s blocking entry in emerging industries (Haber, Noel, and Razo
2003).

Mexico early 1990s

Lending to connected interests in the early 1990s was prevalent (20 percent of commercial loans) and took place on better terms
than arms’ length lending (annual interest rates were 4 percentage points lower). Related loans were 33 percent more likely to
default and had lower recovery rates (30 percent less) than unrelated ones (La Porta, López-de-Silanes, and Zamarripa 2002).

Pakistan

Insider activities have significant economic costs. Politically connected firms borrowed twice as much from government banks and
had 50 percent higher default rates between 1996 and 2002, with economywide costs of rent-seeking estimated to be 0.3 percent to
1.9 percent of GDP per year. Brokers trading on their own behalf earned annual rates of return 50–90 percentage points higher than
those earned by outside investors. Hence, price manipulation by intermediaries helps keep equity markets marginal with few
outsiders investing and little capital raised (Khwaja and Mian 2004, 2004b).

Russian Federation

Russia’s free-for-all banking entry, combined with its choice of a universal banking system, gave great discretion to insiders to
conduct asset stripping through the loan-for-shares scheme. The weak political accountability could not stop the capture of state
resources or protected rents (Perotti 2002, Black, Kraakman, and Tassarova 2000).

Thailand

Connected lending was large before the 1997 crisis and firms with connections to banks and politicians had greater access to longterm debt (Wiwattanakantang, Kali, and Charumilind forthcoming).

United States, early 1800s

New bank licenses went largely to insiders in New York state (Haber 2004).

Ghana, Kenya, Tanzania,
Zambia, and Zimbabwe

Firms that have an owner of Asian or European descent have a 0.34 higher probability of obtaining credit from suppliers
(Fisman 2003).

cultural capital. Examples include the Mexican banking system, until the reforms of
the second half of the 1990s, and the concentrated wealth and close connections
between economic and political elites in
East Asia (figure 2.8).5
Concentrated corporate control and
wealth should be a concern if it leads to
biases in access toward the influential and,
even more, if it is associated with reduced
innovation and dynamism. Reduced innovation can occur through direct restrictions
on opportunity and the indirect effects of
weaker property rights. Cross-country evidence suggests that there is a relationship.
Countries with more self-made billionaires
tend to grow faster, whereas those with
more hereditary billionaires grow more
slowly, suggesting costs of dynastic family
control over economies. Societies with
greater family control over the corporate
sector also grow more slowly.6

More compelling evidence on the links
between unequal power and financial sector
distortions comes from case study material,
from the historical experience of nowdeveloped societies, and from contemporary
developing countries.7 Table 9.2 provides a
selective list of results from recent studies of
developing and transition countries. These
case studies illustrate that unequal wealth
and influence and low political accountability can be bad for entry and bad for the
broad protection of property rights—and so
can hurt the efficiency, growth, and the
health of the financial system.
Such adverse long-term effects can be
magnified through crises, further dampening growth and reducing equity. Connected
lending lowers asset quality and makes
financial systems more vulnerable. And
well-connected interests do disproportionately well in crises, through looting or
securing greater protection and bailouts, as

182

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

discussed in the section on macroeconomic
management.8

The liberalization paradox:
Rapid and premature liberalization
can also be captured
A seemingly obvious implication of the
pathology sketched above is that a more
open and liberalized financial system
should be good for access, innovation, and
growth. Yet overly rapid liberalization can
bring new perils. Table 9.2 includes examples of liberalization and privatization of
financial systems leading to highly concentrated benefits. Rapid privatizations of
state-owned banks often meant that banks
went to powerful insiders or corporate
groups, as in Chile in the 1970s, Mexico in
the 1980s, and the Russian Federation in the
1990s.9 In Chile and Mexico, the largest
banks were sold to a small number of
wealthy families in dubious auctions, with
foreigners stopped from bidding. The buyers were allowed to fund the purchases with
loans from the banks themselves, leading to
extremely poor incentives for solvency. In
both countries, the owners used the banks
to grant themselves large loans, aimed in

BOX 9.2

Too much and too little regulation:
Russia before and after the transition

Within a couple of years of liberalization, the
number of banks in Russia had risen from
four to around 3,000. One could argue that
this was prime evidence that no elite was
blocking entry. But such rapid entry in a regulatory power vacuum precluded any
chance of regulatory oversight. It compromised the public perception of what a bank
is and how it operates, undermining the very
foundation required for the development of
the domestic banking sector. In practice,
many of these “banks” were not banks but
private fund management entities used to
channel capital flight.Those raising deposits
from the general public lent the cash to
insiders, gambled it irresponsibly, or simply
shipped it abroad, leaving the banks as
empty shells full of liabilities.
Banks could get away with such behavior
not just because rapid entry overwhelmed
the (rather unprepared) regulators, but also
because the banking lobby further promoted

laws that granted banks an extraordinary
freedom to operate and dispose of other
people’s money. Russia endorsed the “universal bank”model, for example, hardly a structure suited to a legal and regulatory vacuum
(although there is debate as to whether this
was a key factor in itself). Bank lobbyists also
ensured that banks were exonerated from
the new commercial bankruptcy code (the
bankruptcy code established before the 1998
crisis vaguely stated that banks would be
subject to a specific bankruptcy legislation,
which was not even tabled before 1998).
The universal banking structure and
lack of bankruptcy system contributed to
the severity of the financial crisis of August
1998, resulting in massive losses to depositors, foreign investors, and cost to the state
budget (as many liabilities were transferred
to the state-owned Sberbank).
Source: Claessens and Perotti (2005).

part at accumulating control over other
firms. In Mexico, this was associated with a
major consumer credit boom.
In the Republic of Korea, chaebols (family-run conglomerates) came to dominate
nonbank financial institutions. This caused
serious conflicts of interest and “produced
numerous incidents of illegal and unfair
activities, where funds from affiliated financial institutions were exploited for the benefit of chaebol’s ailing subsidiaries.”10 And in
the particularly dramatic case of Russia, the
free-for-all liberalization was a source of
both rapid concentration of assets and
increased financial vulnerabilities (box 9.2).
Rapid or premature liberalization in a
context of low political accountability can
increase financial fragility, and the risk of
opportunistic default.11 Reckless lending
strategies in Chile and Mexico created
extreme vulnerability for the financial system, which collapsed when there were
shocks to interest and exchange rates. A
greater percentage of large loans defaulted
and subsequent losses on large loans were
larger than losses on smaller loans; losses
were particularly large on loans to parties
connected with the owners, who escaped
significant sanctions. In both countries, the
banking system had to be bailed out at
enormous public cost, while much of the
lent capital probably disappeared in capital
flight, as in Russia. These cases suggest that
rash liberalization with limited scrutiny can
result in concentrated control of the banking system, with owners putting up limited
amounts of their own capital, and weak or
corrupt supervision and public guarantees
to depositors. In all these cases the rise in
low-quality liabilities (and the associated
moral hazard) became a major factor in the
subsequent financial crises.
In countries with greater accountability,
financial liberalizations went a different
way. In France, before the 1985 financial
reforms, government subsidies and limits
on competition led banks to support less
productive firms and provide poor-quality
loans. After 1985, the loan allocations
improved and employment increased.12
Although the reforms exposed some problematic lending patterns, there was no

Markets and the macroeconomy

financial crisis or capture by the few. The
system was less concentrated to begin with,
and the reform process received more public scrutiny.
Premature or ill-designed liberalization
can also lead to reform backlash, if the benefits are perceived to be concentrated in a
few powerful groups while the losses are
broadly socialized. There is less specific evidence on this for the financial system, but it
forms part of a broader pattern of reaction
against liberalizing processes. Witness the
dramatic fall in support for privatization in
Latin America between the mid-1990s and
early 2000s (as documented by the Latinobarómetro surveys). Such a backlash is
likely to be particularly sharp when associated with gains for particular groups—
”economically dominant minorities” in the
interpretation of a series of case studies by
Chua (2004)—that can heighten the sense
of horizontal inequities for other groups. It
can undercut support for the very reforms
that are critical for equity and growth. This
is why policy designs need to consider both
technical and political economy concerns.

Increasing access to financial services:
Technical design, accountability,
and competition
If both financial systems and financial liberalizations are often captured, what does this
imply for the design of reform? The answer is
complex and to some degree specific to the
initial financial and legal institutions and
political context of a country. But we can
outline some general principles. Options to
expand access entail moving financial institutions closer to the country’s “access possibilities frontier.” This will not necessarily
imply finance for all: for all the success of
microcredit for the poor, the major beneficiaries of greater access will be small and
medium entrepreneurs from the middle
class. But this is good for the broad-based
growth that will benefit all groups. This
involves both issues of technical design and
developing the political and social accountabilities that will support and sustain change.
Technical design issues. For financial institutions, expanding the client base has much to

do with scale, which is often too small. Recent
experiences like those of ICICI bank in India
show that the high transaction costs for small
volumes and the large cost of expanding
reach can be overcome. One option is the
innovative use of existing networks. Postal
systems, with their broad coverage, can be
used to deliver new services by many private
financial services providers. Many technological solutions now exist for small-scale banking, from mobile banking to broadening the
range of delivery points—through kiosks,
small branches, and joint ventures with nonbanks. Simpler banking products, like the
“Mzansi” account in South Africa, and prepaid cards for small transactions can lower
costs. Handheld computers have been used
for quick approval of microfinance loans.
Reverse factoring (lending on the basis of
receivables from a creditworthy institution)
using an Internet platform has allowed
Nacional Financiera (NAFIN) in Mexico to
extend trade finance. There has also been
much innovation in the market for international remittances, which many banks have
entered.
Some of these innovations need regulatory changes—for example, customer identification, anti-money-laundering rules and
other rules can hinder access to a bank
account, as when individuals do not have a
fixed address or formal job. Better regulatory approaches for consumers can involve
adopting “truth in lending” requirements
for small borrowers and educating people
on the risks of (new) financial services.
However, a general lesson is to be wary of
regulation in weak environments: all too
often regulation ostensibly designed to protect savers and borrowers is ineffective in
protection but still hinders access.
Are there shortcuts to enhancing access,
especially when overall institutional improvements will take time? Too often there is
emphasis on the more complicated and
sophisticated aspects of financial systems,
while, some of the basics—broadening access
to financial services, including deposit-taking
institutions—can be more important from
an equity viewpoint. Information sharing can
help improve competition in banking systems and can be encouraged more quickly in

183

184

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

some segments, including allowing nonbank
financial institutions access to existing networks (such as payments systems). There can
also be some scope for specific government
interventions. But government interventions
to broaden access through directed credit
have typically been unsuccessful, causing inefficient distortions with few access benefits—
the second type of pathology discussed in
this chapter. Many governments, especially
in the 1960s and 1970s, used various forms
of subsidized directed credit, typically
through state banks, to try to channel
finance to poor farmers and small enterprises. Directed credit undermines institutional development because banks have no
reason to develop credit analysis skills, as
plentiful examples of defunct development
banks show. By one account, default rates
ranged from 40 to 95 percent throughout
the developing world.13
Moreover, subsidies for housing, lending
for small and medium enterprises, and agricultural finance are often captured by the
well connected. Some schemes do reach the
poor: India’s social banking program did so,
but at a high cost.14 Such schemes then
become, at best, an inefficient means of
support for the poor, fostering unsustainable models of financial sector development. For example, India’s Integrated Rural
Development Program provided loans to
socially excluded groups (certain castes and
tribes, and women) with high levels of subsidy (25 to 50 percent of the loan volume to
such weak sectors). By 2000, loan recovery
was only 31 percent, and there was little evidence of repeat borrowing.
Microfinance clearly has a role in expanding access. It is best viewed as a complement, not a substitute, for more equitable financial reform and core financial
system development. In most countries,
microcredit and similar microfinance institutions reach less than 2 percent of the population. Only in a few countries is access
really extensive—Bangladesh, Indonesia,
and Sri Lanka stand out with coverage
ratios in the order of 8 percent or more.15
Subsidies are often used to encourage the
setup of microfinance institutions, but they
need to be designed carefully because they

can increase final costs, by encouraging the
formation of institutions that are too small
and that are forced to raise prices to recover
fixed costs. Co-sharing costs and risks with
the private sector is a key market test. Startup subsidies and other support can foster
exploration of alternative business models,
phasing out support over time. Maintaining
a segmented system makes sense until the
microfinance sector matures, with stronger
microfinance institutions coming into the
core financial system as they evolve.
Accountability and competition. Technical
design is important, but the core of a reliable reform is building political and regulatory accountability. Public scrutiny has a
key role, given the risks of capturing reform
process and institutions. Potential actors to
help oversee the process include associations of small firms, consumer groups,
NGOs, media, and labor unions. But given
the technical and complex nature of financial sector functioning, societal accountability is likely to be most effective if groups
with an interest in a more open financial
system are empowered, engaging independent nongovernmental technical bodies with
the capacity to analyze financial sector conditions. The shadow regulatory commissions established in almost all regions, and
such research centers as the recently formed
Center for Financial Stability in Argentina,
can be sources of education and avenues for
interest groups to express their voice. It will
remain important to design these mechanisms with care to avoid the creation of veto
powers to reform (which can lead to
counter-reform capture!)
It is possible to promote reforms that
build more reliable and inclusive financial
systems in a context of unequal influence.
Formal regulatory structures can complement societal accountability. The development of the stock markets in Poland and the
Czech Republic show what regulation and
disclosure can do. At the transition from
communism in 1989, these two countries
were quite similar in economic structure and
history. But the design of financial reforms
was very different, driven primarily by differences in philosophy toward markets.16

Markets and the macroeconomy

The Czech Republic went for a radical
voucher-based privatization of state-owned
assets, convinced of the power of the market to organize itself: with property rights
transferred to the private sector, it was
expected that private actors would efficiently contract with one another. Poland
pursued a more gradual approach, based on
case-by-case privatization and a measured
institutional development effort to build
regulatory and supervisory capacity. Company and securities laws in the two countries reflected these differences in approach,
with much greater requirements in Poland
than in the Czech Republic for disclosure to
the public, more protection of minority
shareholders, and more power for the independent regulator.
The results were quite different. The
stock market in the Czech Republic started
bigger but was quickly dominated by corporate insiders, who captured “58 percent
of the values of companies over and above
their legitimate shareholding, compared
with an insignificant 1 percent in the
United States.”17 There was widespread
“tunneling,” a form of asset stripping by
insiders through transfers to other institutions they controlled. The Polish stock market, by contrast, started more slowly, but
then overtook the Czech market (figure 9.1)
Public scandals led to the regulator effectively pursuing violations, using the greater
legal protections, and laying the basis for
more broad-based property rights, greater
confidence, and openness. By the late 1990s,
there were already several initial public
offerings in the market.
Segmentation provides another example
of the need for appropriate accountability
mechanisms. Financial sector regulation in
many countries, including developed ones,
enforced segmentation for long periods—
both on a geographic basis and by type of
financial services, as among commercial
banking, investment banking, and insurance.
The Italian experience with dispersed local
banking suggests that mutual and cooperative banks performed an important function
in supporting local activities, which was
much better than state-owned banks or
banks dominated by politicians.18 But regu-

latory capacity has been eroded by technological change. Given that segmentation
often resulted in capture by local elites, the
erosion of barriers has likely improved access
as often as not. Yet there is room for smaller,
locally managed intermediaries to promote
access. Such locally focused intermediaries
need explicit disclosure and accountability
requirements to local users (as opposed to
local politicians), which has been the tradition in cooperative or mutual banks, to limit
the undue political influence of the few.
Opening the financial sector to competition from foreign financial institutions can
also spur financial broadening. Foreign
bank entry can help by improving efficiency
and stability, reducing protected profits,
and forcing (local) financial institutions to
focus more on providing financial services
to all. Financing obstacles are perceived to
be much lower by borrowers in countries
with high levels of foreign bank penetration, with evidence that even small enterprises benefit. But note that allowing the
entry of foreign banks is not synonymous
with capital account liberalization. Rapidly
opening the capital account before adequate domestic regulatory and supervisory
structures are in place can be dangerous,
especially in a world of large, and often
herdlike, international capital flows, coupled with politically connected lending of
poor quality. This increased the vulnerability of Indonesia, the Republic of Korea, and
Thailand in the East Asian crisis.
Finally there is the potential for external
commitment. The relative success of Central European countries in strengthening
accountability has been attributed to the
constraint on abuse induced by the need to
prepare for accession to the European
Union. In Slovakia, after a decade of influence-peddling and slow reform in the
financial sector, the pendulum swung
toward reform only as the date of possible
EU accession approached.19

Achieving equity and efficiency
in labor markets
For most of the world’s people, economic
opportunities are primarily determined, or

185

Figure 9.1 Poland’s stock market
started slowly but then surpassed the
Czech Republic’s
US$ millions, end of year
25,000
20,000
15,000
Czech Rep.
10,000
Poland
5,000
0
1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998
Source: Glaeser, Johnson, and Shleifer (2001).

186

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

at least mediated, by the labor market—in
formal and informal work. The wages and
employment conditions in the labor market
affect the quality of life of workers and their
families, sometimes in ways that may seem
harsh or unfair. The functioning of the
labor market has a profound effect on
equity—across workers, in patterns of
access to work, and between workers and
employers. Government intervention to
achieve greater equity is frequent in labor
markets, but often with costs in terms of efficiency—exemplifying the second pathology.
While this is an area in which genuine tradeoffs exist between protection of weaker workers (which is good for equity) and flexibility
(which is good for growth), elite capture and
gross inefficiencies can be addressed through
better design and broader accountability.

Equity and efficiency reasons
to intervene in the labor market
Labor markets are different from other markets. Unlike the markets for many commodities, labor markets generally are not
competitive. They may be characterized by
uneven market power (between employers
and workers), by imperfect mobility of
workers, by insufficient information, or by
discrimination. These imperfections generate rents in the employment relationship,
which both sides can try to capture. This
can lead to unfair and inefficient outcomes
when the bargaining position of the workers is weak. For example, employers may
underpay workers who are not mobile,
force workers to work in hazardous conditions, or discriminate against vulnerable
groups. Private markets, left to themselves,
also do a poor job of protecting workers
against the risk of unemployment. In the
absence of perfect access to financial markets, or complete insurance markets, workers may not be able to smooth consumption
in response to labor income shocks. If they
cannot gain access to financial markets,
they may also be prevented from moving
from bad jobs to good.
All governments, irrespective of income,
intervene heavily in the labor market. Governments typically intervene to correct these

failures: to protect workers and endow them
with rights and “voice” in the employment
relationship, to empower unions to represent workers in negotiations with employers, to ensure compliance with labor laws
and regulations, and to provide insurance
against income shocks. Public intervention
can improve market outcomes and lead to
significant equity gains: more equal opportunities for workers, better working conditions, and less discrimination. It can also
lead to large gains in efficiency: for example,
by allowing full use of the labor of discriminated groups, by increasing labor mobility,
or by better managing income risk.20
The problem is that poorly designed or
inappropriate government intervention can
also make things worse, with results that are
bad for equity and efficiency. For example,
excessive protection of formal sector insiders can lead to “rationing” jobs in the formal
sector, pushing surplus labor into either
informal employment (as in India) 21 or
unemployment (as in South Africa). 22
The problem is particularly acute in
developing countries, because labor market
regulations and standards typically apply
only to formal sector workers, leaving the
majority of the workforce uncovered.23 Protecting workers through legislation and regulation that is enforced only in the formal
sector, without other measures to improve
working conditions in informal employment, can reinforce the segmentation between
formal and informal employment in ways
that are inherently unfair. In Colombia,
workers are legally entitled to severance payments for dismissals deemed unjust, but
these entitlements are not enforced in the
informal sector, which employs more than
half the workforce. Not only do Colombian
informal sector workers not benefit from the
legislation, but arguably they are harmed by
it, because the resulting higher cost of labor
in the formal sector limits formal employment opportunities for “outsiders” (mainly
women and youth).24
In reality, the distinction between formal
and informal employment is often blurred.
Some authors argue that the informal economy functions partly as an unregulated
entrepreneurial sector, often voluntarily

Markets and the macroeconomy

entered even at the expense of lower
income.25 It is clear that the informal sector
is heterogeneous, and includes both those
who choose to work there and those who
work there out of necessity. Those in the top
strata—microentrepreneurs who hire others and many of the self-employed—do relatively well in average earnings. Those at the
bottom—intermittent casual laborers and
industrial outworkers—do not. Women
tend to be underrepresented in the top
strata and overrepresented in the bottom.26
They also often earn less than men within
each strata—although some of these differences may reflect voluntary choices for
more flexible, part-time work. In a recent
study, the International Labour Office
(ILO) argued that the formal and informal
sectors are part of a continuum of working
conditions, earnings, and rights.27 A significant share of formal sector employees had
some of the (poor) working conditions
associated with informality, while a fraction
of informal sector workers enjoyed conditions more typically associated with formal
sector jobs. The challenge for governments
is to shift more jobs along this continuum
toward better working conditions and
higher wages, and to do so in ways that do
not come at the expense of efficiency.
Indeed, poorly designed or inappropriate government intervention can also be
inefficient and bad for long-term growth.
Recent research on India, for example, suggests that starting from a common legal
framework (the Industries Disputes Act of
1947), the states that amended the legislation in the direction of reinforcing security
rights of workers and other prolabor measures had lower output and productivity
growth in formal manufacturing than those
that did not change it or that made labor
regulations more flexible.28 Relatively protective legislation may have reduced opportunities for workers—especially the majority without a formal sector job.
A look at some African labor markets
illustrates the impact of government policies (figure 9.2). Many countries—including Ghana, Uganda, and Tanzania—have
large self-employment sectors, which absorb
increases in the labor supply and help keep

unemployment low. South Africa stands in
sharp contrast, with a small informal
sector—absorbing only about 19 percent of
the total workforce in 2002, much lower
than the share of nonagricultural employment in other African countries—and high
unemployment (42 percent in 2003).29 Part
of the story lies in much larger wage differences between formal and informal sector
work in South Africa than in the other
cases. But it also appears to be caused by the
unusually small size of the informal sector
(compared with Latin America, for example). Some suggest that the legacy of
apartheid that inhibited the development of
traditions of small-scale entrepreneurial
activity, and labor regulations that are
enforced for firms of all sizes (depending on
the industry and region), may explain the
lack of entrepreneurs and small firms in
South Africa.
In Ethiopia, on the other hand, the majority of the urban unemployed are well educated and from middle-class households.30
They also tend to be young, have never held
paid work, and have a median duration of
unemployment of nearly four years. Indeed,
about half of young unemployed males are
searching for public sector jobs, which pay on
average a 125 percent premium over selfemployed work.

Addressing links with unequal power
Government intervention in the labor market is often a reflection of the underlying distribution of political agency. Governments
may (and often do) intervene in the labor
market in pursuit of goals other than
addressing market failure. They may intervene to buy off the support of certain groups
(for example, urban formal sector workers)
or to suppress social dissent under an
authoritarian regime or to serve the interests
of those with greater political influence. Oligarchic capitalist societies can be associated
either with labor repression or with unionized and (relatively) advantaged formal sector workers who share in the rents.
Interventions aimed at shifting aggregate
welfare toward politically powerful middle
groups, often in the name of equity, at the
expense of others (an illustration of our

187

Figure 9.2 Patterns of employment and
unemployment vary widely across
African countries
Employment by sector for selected
African countries
Percentage of total labor force
Unemployed
Self-employment
(including agriculture)
Private wage job
Public wage job
100

75

50

25

0
Ghana

Ethiopia
(urban)

South
Africa

Source: Kingdon, Sandefur, and Teal (2005).
Note: Ghanaian data are for 1998/99 and public
wage employment includes government and
state enterprise workers. South African data are
for 2003 (Labor Force Survey). Ethiopian data are
for urban areas in 1997 (Labour Force Survey)
and because of definitional issues may not be
fully comparable.

188

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

second pathology) are inherently bad for
equity and usually bad for efficiency. Politically influential energy sector and teacher
unions in Mexico, for example, have protected their employment and wage entitlements by blocking reforms that would lead
to, respectively, energy sector reform and
higher-quality and more equitable schooling. Public sector workers in France have
used their political force, with the aid of massive strikes, to curtail attempts to bring their
nonwage benefits and other entitlements in
line with those of the private sector.
Stronger civil and political rights and
broader mechanisms for voice can reduce
the likelihood that the government’s labor
policy agenda will be hijacked by politically
powerful groups. There is a strong association between democracy and the level of
wages, both across countries and within
societies that have experienced a political
transition, such as the Republic of Korea,
and Taiwan, China.31 Stronger respect for
civic rights in Latin America has also been
associated with greater formalization of
employment and a higher wage share.32 In
Spain, the transition to democracy in the
mid-1970s led to demands for greater
equity that were associated with the legalization of free trade unions,33 the rapid

Figure 9.3 Different labor market institutional setups
can yield equally good productivity growth paths:
Scandinavia versus the United States
Labor productivity (GDP per hour worked, US$)
60
Norway
50
United States
40
30
Denmark

20
Sweden
Finland

10
0
1970

1975

1980

1985

1990

1995

2000

Source: Underlying series for OECD (2005).
Note: Measures used are GDP volumes, in U.S. dollars, at constant
prices, constant purchasing power parity (PPPs) prices with a
base year of 2000 and total hours worked for total employment.

introduction of extensive social transfers
(including pensions and unemployment
insurance), and the implementation of progressive income taxation. The result was a
shift from a regulated state, in which protection for workers came mainly through
permanent jobs and controlled housing
rentals, to a liberal economy with flexible
markets, and more extensive public provisioning of services (see focus 3 on Spain).

Better design: Can labor market
institutions be designed to be
pro-growth and pro-equity?
The challenge for governments is to design
interventions that balance equity and efficiency goals in ways that are within a country’s institutional capacity. History suggests
that this is a complex task, and there are real
tradeoffs that need to be assessed. Different
societies are likely to make different choices.
Scandinavia and the United States have
very different sets of labor market institutions, yet they share a good track record of
solid growth and high employment-topopulation ratios (figure 9.3). The Nordic
countries have mandated generous benefits
and protection for workers, financed by a
high tax effort. But they also have a highly
coordinated and centralized approach to
wage-setting and policymaking, which
allowed all parties to internalize the consequences of their actions, with the union
movement historically an advocate for
openness and competition. The United
States leaves the setting of wages and work
conditions, including benefits, much more
to discretion and employer-worker negotiation. This fits well within its tradition of
decentralized bargaining, which gives freedom to individual firms to bargain with
their workers in response to their varying
economic and financial conditions. It leads
to greater wage inequality and more workers without health and other forms of
insurance. But it is consistent with lower
taxes and high levels of flexibility.34 The
Nordic countries and the United States
opted for different labor market models (in
line with their history, legal tradition, and
societal preferences), but all succeeded in
delivering to their workforces a large pool

Markets and the macroeconomy

of job opportunities, productivity growth,
and rising incomes over the long term.
What doesn’t work? There are also many
ways of getting labor market institutions
“wrong.” And when countries get it wrong,
one segment of the labor market (typically
public and formal sector workers who represent the middle and high end of the usage
distribution) benefits from extra protection
at the expense of others. Outcomes are
highly unequal, and the costs to efficiency
and growth are usually severe. The experiences of India, South Africa, and Colombia
cited earlier are vivid examples.
Governments also get it wrong if they
intervene extensively in the labor market
when product markets are not competitive.
A typical example is the unionization of
public sector workers. In Mexico, before the
reforms of the 1990s, workers in public utilities and in the public oil sector secured
high wages by capturing a share of the rents
generated in these monopolistic sectors. But
their gain came at a cost for employment
and competitiveness in Mexico’s private
sector. Mexico’s experience is not unique: it
applied equally to state enterprise workers
in Turkey until the 1990s and to public sector workers in India and many other countries.
Things can also go greatly wrong when
governments mandate protection with no
attention to incentives. In much of Europe,
governments implemented generous unemployment benefits with little connection to
workers’ actual job search behavior. The
result was an increase in the duration of
unemployment and the emergence of longterm unemployment, with its destructive
impact on human capital, loss of employability, weakened ties to economic and social
life, and for many, high degrees of poverty
and social exclusion.35
What works? The key to avoiding these pitfalls is achieving a balance between protection and flexibility. Design specifics matter
a lot, as does the underlying structural context. Collective organization of workers is
one of the main channels for securing better and more equitable working conditions.
Free trade unions are the cornerstone of any

effective system of industrial relations.
Unions act as agents for labor, coordinating
the demands of workers and organizing
them into a single entity whose collective
bargaining power matches that of the
employer. Trade unions can help provide a
positive work environment by reducing
labor turnover and by promoting worker
training and higher productivity. Unions
have also been found to reduce inequality
and wage discrimination in countries as
diverse as Ghana, the Republic of Korea,
Mexico, and Spain.36 Unions also can have
an important noneconomic role. They have
been a force for progressive political and
social change in many countries (Poland,
the Republic of Korea, and South Africa).
But the involvement of unions in wagesetting can also have significant negative
economic effects. Evidence from industrial
societies suggests that union involvement
reduces the employment of young and
older workers (“outsiders”) and benefits
prime-age males and females.37 Unions
often act as monopolists, improving wages
and work conditions for their members at
the expense of consumers and nonunion
labor. For example, recent studies of manufacturing wages in Africa show substantial
union wage premiums (30 to 40 percent in
some countries).38
Formal trade unions are most effective at
improving conditions for workers without
huge efficiency costs when product markets
are competitive, so that unions cannot raise
wages for their members by capturing rents
at the expense of other parts of society;
when collective bargaining arrangements
and institutions have enough flexibility to
accommodate different demand and supply
conditions for different types of workers;
and when unions operate in a context that
allows them to internalize and absorb the
cost of their actions. On the other hand,
when unions are co-opted by political elites
or by the state, their actions can have significant costs for efficiency.
An illustration of the potentially highly
positive role of unions in improving working
conditions while supporting productivity
growth comes from a study of worker-firm
relationships in high-value export crops in

189

190

BOX 9.3

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Organizing in the informal economy

Developing countries have trade unions
and large informal economies, two
phenomena commonly thought to be
incompatible. But recent work by Women in
Informal Employment: Globalizing and
Organizing (WIEGO) has uncovered a surprising amount of organizing in the informal economy. Formal trade unions that
extend their coverage to informal workers
and trade unions of informal workers are
two organizational forms that have
emerged. Organizing can also be done by
cooperatives, savings-and-credit groups,
producer groups, and neighborhood and
trade associations.
Organizing in the informal economy
differs from organizing in the formal economy along several dimensions. Collective
bargaining can take many forms. Bargaining partners are not just employers but can
also include municipal authorities, police,
wholesalers, and other interest groups.
Activities of informal workers’ trade unions
can also extend beyond collective bargaining and include a range of services, such as
savings, credit, social security, and
advocacy. Because members do not work in
a standard workplace or for a single
employer, membership in trade unions can
take unusual forms.

• Registered as a trade union, the SelfEmployed Women’s Association (SEWA)
in India is both an organization of poor
self-employed women workers and a
movement combining elements of the
labor, cooperative, and women’s movements. It offers a broad range of services
to its nearly 700,000 members, including
banking, health care, child care,
insurance, legal aid, housing assistance,
and capacity building (www.sewa.org).
• StreetNet International, launched in 2002
in South Africa, has 15 affiliates (unions,
cooperatives, or associations) in Asia,
Africa, and Latin America that organize
street vendors, informal market vendors,
and hawkers. As of early 2004, these affiliates represented 128,000 members
(UNRISD Gender Policy Report).
• HomeNet Thailand is a network that
helps organize informal home-based
subcontracted and own-account workers
(mainly women). It drew attention to the
plight of these workers following the
financial crisis in 1998.
Sources: United Nations Research Institute for
Social Development (UNRISD) (2005); Women
in Informal Employment Globalizing and Organizing (2005).

northeastern Brazil. Union activity among
landless agricultural laborers in this case was
an important factor behind improvements
in work practices that led to higher quality
(critical for export crops), higher productivity, and better working conditions for landless workers. To effect this change, however,
the union had to shift from defending the
interests of its traditional base of support
(small farmers) to representing the interests
of a larger group of landless laborers. Success
was also facilitated by the fact that, on the
employer side, the union was negotiating
with large firms from southeastern Brazil.
These southeastern firms had experience in
collective bargaining, in contrast to the
more traditional large farmers of the northeast, which were accustomed to more
repressive and conflictive labor relations.39
Collective organization of workers can
also secure greater bargaining power and
thus better working conditions for informal
economy workers. Studies of informal

worker associations in India, South Africa,
and Thailand suggest that organizing informal workers decreases the workers’ invisibility to policymakers and legislators, helps
them gain access to information, gives them
voice and self-identity, and in some cases
helps to provide them with a range of social
protection services (box 9.3).
Providing income security is another
area in which the structural context and
design specifics, which pay attention to
incentives and reward desirable behaviors,
are critical to policy outcomes (box 9.4).
This is also true of minimum wage policies
for which the key to avoiding large efficiency costs is to get the level right and to
allow for enough flexibility across types of
workers to accommodate different demand
and supply elasticities for their labor.40
Design specifics and the broader structural context are equally critical to the success of legislation on other work standards
(health and safety) or protection for specific
vulnerable groups (such as child laborers,
ethnic minorities, or the disabled). There is
an international consensus that core labor
standards—freedom from forced and child
labor, freedom from discrimination at work,
freedom of association, and the right to
collective bargaining—have such intrinsic
value that they should always be pursued.
But even for these core standards there are
questions about how to achieve them most
effectively and with minimum cost.41
An example of government intervention to protect workers from abuse comes
from Cambodia’s successful experience with
implementing core labor standards in the
garment industry. Starting in 1999 Cambodia
could earn a higher quota for exports to the
United States by demonstrating improvements in working conditions. A monitoring
system—developed and implemented by the
ILO, with support from the U.S. Department
of Labor, the Government of Cambodia, and
the Garment Manufacturers Association of
Cambodia—has virtually eliminated the
worst labor abuses, such as child labor and
sexual harassment. A recent survey showed
enforcement of core labor standards in the
garment sector has boosted Cambodian
exports to Europe and North America.42 But

Markets and the macroeconomy

BOX 9.4

191

Employment protection legislation

Left to itself, the labor market does a poor job of
protecting workers against a sharp loss in income
associated with unemployment. As a result, most
societies have developed ways to cope with the
threat of job loss. Often this involves some combination of informal support mechanisms, private
savings, and obligations on employers.When
these mechanisms break down—as they do
when the shocks are large, sudden, protracted, or
affect an entire community—the government
needs to step in. Government intervention typically involves one or several of the following
instruments: job security regulations, mandated
severance pay, unemployment insurance, or
mandatory self-insurance mechanisms.
Job security legislation is typically aimed at
protecting jobs and preventing job destruction.
Most evidence suggests that it is quite effective
at doing so. Across countries, more stringent
employment protection legislation (EPL) appears
strongly associated with more stable
employment. But EPL reduces job destruction at
a significant cost, as the expectation of high separation costs makes firms more reluctant to
expand employment, and makes it less
profitable to start new ventures or create new
firms. So, employment protection also reduces
job creation. For example, researchers found that
strict new job-security laws enacted in the 1980s
reduced employment in many industries in Zim-

babwe (Fallon and Lucas 1993). Overall, the net
effect of job security legislation on employment
is ambiguous (Bertola 1990; OECD 1999; Bertola,
Blau, and Kahn 2001; Kugler 2004).
What is clear is that EPL changes the nature
of unemployment. Lower job destruction
reduces the incidence of unemployment. But
lower job creation increases the duration of
unemployment and can lead to the emergence
of long-term unemployment.
Not surprisingly, EPL appears to have a different impact on different groups of workers. In
both Colombia and Spain the reduction of dismissal costs and job security provisions was
associated with moderate increases in the
employment of young men and women (Kugler
2004; Kugler, Jimeno, and Hernanz 2003). For
Chile, Montenegro and Pagés 2004 find that job
security regulations reduce the employment
rate of youth and the unskilled to the benefit of
older and more skilled workers. A study across
the countries of the Organisation for Economic
Co-operation and Development arrives at a similar conclusion: consistent with the story that
EPL protects “insiders,” stricter EPL increases the
employment of adult men and reduces that of
young workers and women (OECD 1999).
Given the complex effects of EPL, how can
governments best intervene to help protect
workers against temporary drops in income

whether the system will survive the end of the
U.S. quota incentives remains to be seen (see
chapter 10).

How to reform a “bad” set
of labor market institutions
Reforming labor market institutions is
technically and politically difficult. It is
technically difficult because reforms need
to be coordinated across a variety of labor
market institutions, and often also with
reforms outside the labor market. It is
politically difficult because there usually
are vested interests in maintaining the status quo. Moreover, the short-term costs of
reform can be large and unevenly distributed. Take reforms to reduce employment
protection: those currently protected see
themselves as having much more to lose
from reform than to gain from such a
reduction. And if they are also politically
influential—represented by unions and
with political voice—their power to block

associated with unemployment? Some EPL may
be efficient, reducing excessive volatility in
turnover. But too strong EPL—as is typical of
many formal sectors in the developing world—
slows the pace of creative destruction central to
innovation and growth, with disproportionate
adverse effects on those without “good” jobs.Yet
reducing EPL needs to be complemented by
greater worker security that is not linked to specific jobs, both on social welfare and political
economy grounds.
The design of the optimal solution depends
on the institutional and administrative capacity
of government and on the structural characteristics of the labor market (Blanchard 2004). Countries with significant administrative capacity and
medium to high incomes can implement unemployment insurance systems with incentives for
job search (declining benefits with duration and
provision of benefits conditional on acceptance
of acceptable job offer). Middle-income
countries reluctant to implement a full-blown
unemployment insurance system can support
self-insurance mechanisms, such as mandatory
savings accounts (but because of the limits to
self-insurance, these are not as effective). Lowincome countries can opt for public works
schemes, which if effectively designed are selftargeting and can be implemented even when
levels of informality are high (chapter 7).

reforms may be an insurmountable barrier.
Several countries have implemented
substantial labor market reforms more or
less successfully: Ireland, the Republic of
Korea, the Netherlands, New Zealand, and
the Slovak Republic among OECD countries; Chile and Colombia among developing countries (see box 9.5 for Colombia and
the Slovak Republic). China is in the midst
of a large labor market transition, and the
Balkans are struggling through dramatic
labor market reforms.
Experience suggests that effective change
involves a combination of factors: designing
and implementing a consistent and comprehensive policy package; tackling vested
interests; broadening societal accountability, including increasing the voice of poorer
groups; and, in some cases, compensating
losers. Macroeconomic and financial shocks
can facilitate change, although not always a
positive one. Reforming institutions in the

192

BOX 9.5

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Two cases of labor market reform: one comprehensive, one partial

Comprehensive reform in the Slovak
Republic
In 2000 unemployment in the Slovak Republic
reached 19 percent of the labor force—the highest in the OECD at that time.The main factor was
the substantial job reallocation generated by the
transition to a market economy, compounded by
low labor mobility because of skill and regional
mismatches. But the impact of the transition
shock on the labor market was worsened by an
inadequate set of institutions: high rates of taxation of labor and overly generous unemployment
benefit and social assistance systems, which discouraged job search and encouraged informality.
Reforming these institutions in the midst of
high unemployment was extremely difficult,
particularly for a reformist government with a
small majority in parliament. But in early 2003,
bolstered by its reelection, the reformist Slovak
government undertook a comprehensive and
ambitious reform of social and labor market policy.The government’s multipronged strategy
combined measures to reduce the taxation of
labor, increase the incentives to work through
reform of unemployment insurance and social
assistance, invest in the skills of labor and
employability, improve the matching of workers

and jobs through higher labor flexibility and
mobility, and strengthen state administration in
labor and social policy.
The new strategy represented a marked
change in philosophy in labor and social policy
in the Slovak Republic: from a system that mixed
ingredients of insurance and redistribution
toward one that separates social insurance from
equity objectives; and from a tradition of entitlements based on subjective or “moral” norms to
one that guarantees a certain living standard to
all citizens irrespective of the reason they may
have for being poor, but that rewards individual
initiative and motivation.
The key ingredients in pushing the reform
through were a reformist government with a
strong popular mandate; strong leadership and
technical competency from the Ministry of
Labor and Social Affairs; accession into the European Union as a disciplining device; and widespread public perception, built on analysis and
dissemination of this analysis, that institutional
reforms were needed. Moreover, labor market
reform was carried out not in isolation but as
part of a broader policy package to make the
Slovak economy more competitive in light of EU
accession.This package included a substantial

midst of widespread job loss and high
unemployment (as in the Republic of Korea
following the 1998 financial crisis) is particularly difficult, even though it may be easier
at such times to achieve societal consensus
for reform.
Designing a consistent and coherent policy
package. One of the strongest lessons from
country experience is that piecemeal reform
does not work (tinkering at the margin usually has perverse distributional effects).
Moreover, reforms need to cover a range of
labor market policies and to be linked with
reforms in social protection systems.
Reform is more effective and more equitable when different labor market instruments are coordinated: measures to reduce
insider power and increase flexibility by
lowering the restrictions and costs of firing
can be linked to setting up of unemployment insurance mechanisms and eliminating dual status contracts. Reforms in other
markets and the public sector are often key
to the success of labor market reform. The

overhaul of personal income taxes, as well as
reform of the education system.

Partial labor market reform in Colombia
In 1990 Colombia introduced a labor market
reform that substantially reduced the costs of
dismissing workers.The reform reduced severance payments, widened the definition of “just”
dismissals, extended the use of temporary contracts, and speeded up the process of mass dismissals.The joint effects of these reforms were
to reduce the costs associated with firing workers in firms covered by the legislation. But the
reforms did not affect informal sector firms,
which did not comply with the legislation.
An analysis of the effects of the reforms suggests that they did increase the dynamism of
the Colombian labor market by increasing exit
rates into and out of unemployment (greater
churning).There was an increase in worker
turnover for formal sector worker, greatest
among young workers, more educated workers,
and workers employed in larger firms.The
reforms may have also contributed to increasing
compliance with labor legislation by reducing
the costs of formality.
Source: Kugler (2004).

depth and competitiveness of other markets
(including product and financial markets)
are critical.
Tackling vested interests. Reforms are often
held hostage by politically more powerful
groups. For example, policies to reduce
employment protection, allow for subminimum wages, or streamline and improve public sector employment typically encounter
sharp resistance from unions. Building broad
societal consensus for reform is often the
only way to tackle these vested interests. As a
first step, this may require documenting the
high costs of bad labor market policies
through good data collection, analysis, and
dissemination (as in the Slovak Republic).
Broadening social accountability. Building
societal consensus in support of labor market
reform may require specific measures to
empower the groups of so-called outsiders or
disenfranchised workers who bear the costs
of nonreform. It helps to have political parties
and societal organizations with broad bases

Markets and the macroeconomy

of representation and support. When this is
not the case, it may be necessary to look for
ways to open up institutions and give greater
voice in bargaining (at all levels) to representatives of disenfranchised groups. This is
easier when there are democratic local governments and strong autonomous associations—independent private business associations, worker associations that represent the
interests of specific groups, and so on. The
independent private sector is also a natural
ally when it comes to reforming public sector
employment and wage practices.
Compensating losers. The short-term costs
of reforms can be high for certain groups of
workers: unemployment insurance and social
assistance reform in the Slovak Republic disproportionately hurt Roma workers and
those living in high unemployment regions.
So it may be necessary to compensate the losers. It is best to do this in ways that address
the obstacles that losers face in reentering the
labor market (support for education or training) or that facilitate labor mobility and
reward work incentives (transport vouchers
for workers moving from social assistance to
work). Such compensatory measures have
been introduced as part of the Slovak Republic’s labor market reform package.

Product markets and trade reform
Product markets are intimately related to
equity, with two-way patterns of causation:
product markets shape the distribution of
economic opportunities, and inequalities in
influence shape the functioning of product
markets. Both the design of external trade
policy and the workings of internal product
markets reflect patterns of influence. Removing barriers and excessive regulation
needs to be complemented by measures to
expand skills, infrastructure, and safety nets
to achieve genuine access and help losers.
Market broadening and deepening are
central to the expansion of opportunity:
directly for firms and the self-employed,
indirectly for workers. How equitable this
expansion of opportunity is depends on
interactions among external trade opening,
domestic markets, patterns of infrastructure, labor markets, safety nets, and other

measures to improve the business climate.
Product market and trade reforms have
great potential to bring expansion in
opportunity, but there can be costs in the
short to medium term, and these can hit
particular groups, from relatively powerful
protected incumbents to middle and poorer
groups. The costs are associated with how
markets and investment processes work:
labor is typically not fully mobile, new skills
take time to acquire, and new investments
are often lumpy and can take time, especially when firms face imperfect credit markets (see earlier section) and an uncertain
investment environment.
The functioning of product markets is
embedded in political and social structures.
Elite capture ranges from the apparent and
egregious—as in the granting of the Indonesian clove monopoly to a son of President
Suharto (a monopoly since disbanded)—to
the less transparent shaping of trade policy
to protect the profits of the influential. It is
also true that policies with (genuine or
rhetorical) equitable purpose can lead to
outcomes that are bad for growth and mixed
for equity. This is evident in the characteristically high levels of protection for relatively
labor-intensive manufacturing and for food
production (such as maize in Mexico, rice in
the Republic of Korea, and the infamous
agricultural subsidies in the European
Union, Japan, and the United States). While
poorer groups sometimes gain, it is more
common that middle and elite groups are
the main beneficiaries, while food consumers lose out.
While policies that reduce the power of
incumbents in product markets will typically be good for efficiency and equity, a
version of the “liberalization paradox” discussed earlier may often apply. Groups and
individuals with economic capacity and
political influence are best positioned to
take advantage of market opening. Under
some conditions this can lead to market
backlash. Chua (2004) documents cases of
“market-dominant minorities” who benefit
from free market reforms, including trade
liberalization. Traditionally dominant ethnic minorities, such as the Chinese in
Southeast Asia, the Lebanese in West

193

194

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Africa, and whites in Latin America and
South Africa, seem to be the primary beneficiaries of the marketization of their
economies. Such outcomes can fuel deepseated resentments and lead to violence.
These political economy and reform backlash considerations are additional reasons
for integrating attention to equity into the
design of product market reforms and
trade liberalization.

Trade liberalization
Trade liberalization changes relative prices
in an economy, causing shifts in output,
wages, and employment. Analyses of trade
liberalization are primarily about outcomes, providing only indirect evidence on
opportunities. They show that trade openness is positively associated with growth
and, on average, there are no strong correlations with income distribution. Morley
(2001), using data from Latin America,
found slightly negative effects of trade liberalization on income distribution, while
Behrman, Birdsall, and Székely (2003)
found positive influences of trade liberalization on wage inequality. Another study
using panel data for 41 countries found
that trade openness is associated with
increases in inequality, after controlling for
a set of other structural and policy influences.43
These average effects mask a great deal of
diversity in impacts across groups, especially over the short to medium term. The
impact of trade-induced price changes
depends not only on average pass-through
but also on exactly which prices change and
how producers and consumers respond.44
For example, the effects of removing protection for agriculture will depend on
whether agricultural prices subsequently
rise or fall and whether the poor are net
producers or consumers of disprotected
products. Normally, it is assumed that trade
liberalization in agriculture will benefit
poor small-scale farmers and be good for
equity. After all, “developing countries have
traditionally taxed the agricultural sector
while developed countries have protected
it.”45 But the impacts must be analyzed case
by case at the microlevel.

Cereal protection in Morocco offers an
illustration. In a simulation analysis of
removal of wheat tariffs, Ravallion (2004b)
finds that, contrary to expectations, rural
families would tend to lose while urban
ones would gain. Although the results predict that there would be more gainers than
losers among the rural poor, aggregate
losses outweigh aggregate gains. Furthermore, expected effects would be enormously varied, with significant horizontal
inequalities: households with the same
incomes were predicted to experience
widely differing outcomes, depending on
their specific structure of production and
consumption. Using a similar simulation
analysis, China’s accession to the World
Trade Organization (WTO) was found to
have a small aggregate poverty-reducing
effect, but this masked considerable variation in impacts across households in rural
versus urban areas and across different
regions.46
While aggregate effects of trade reform
on poverty and equity are not always
clear—whether diverse impacts translate
into inequalities in opportunities depends
on how new activities open up, and whether
labor can move into them—we do know
that there will be winners and losers. Outcomes depend on the ability and willingness of governments to mitigate losses to
particularly hard-hit sectors, possibly by
redistributing some of the gains accruing to
winners.

Domestic product markets and equity
Lack of competition among traders, remote
geography, poor infrastructure, and high
transport costs can all prevent the transmission of border price changes to intended
reform beneficiaries. Addressing such problems can improve the impact of trade
reforms on equity.
The case of public or private marketing
agencies for export crops is a typical example. Small farmers in many countries traditionally have had no option but to sell to a
marketing agency at prices substantially
lower than the free on board (f.o.b.) export
price. Legitimate transport and marketing
costs account for some of the price differ-

Markets and the macroeconomy

ence, but monopsonistic profits often do as
well. Marketing agencies can thus prevent
trade-induced price changes from reaching
farmers at all.47 A 1998 study found that the
Vietnamese rice marketing system was
controlled by a small number of state enterprises. These enterprises limited the transmission of border price changes to farmers
and pushed up transaction costs.48 A more
extreme example was when marketing
boards became instruments for extraction
of surplus from agricultural exporters, such
as for cocoa farmers in the post-independence period in Ghana. Malawi has faced
similar issues: cartels by companies buying
tea, sugar, and tobacco have forced down
the returns to farmers.49
Abolishing marketing boards does not
guarantee efficient marketing, however,
they may play a useful role when markets
are thin, or a tradition of trading has not
developed, as in the raw cashew export
market in Mozambique. Although the state
trading company was privatized in the late
1980s, there was insufficient competition
among private marketers when raw cashew
export restrictions were lifted in the early
1990s. Indeed, raw cashews had to move
through three tiers of intermediaries with
near monopsony power before reaching
world markets. As a result, the trading margin from the farm to the factory was 50 percent and the expected liberalization price
increases never reached farmers.50
Trade reforms in Mexico show how infrastructure and transportation costs can shape
opportunities through their impact on price
transmission. Mexico’s trade liberalization in
the 1980s and entry into North American
Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) in 1994
appear to have led to wage increases in states
bordering the United States relative to the rest
of the country.51 A different study on Mexico
found that tariff reductions translate into
domestic price reductions less and less as distance from the main port of entry increases.
This effect can be substantial (figure 9.4).
Studies of Rwanda and Indonesia have also
documented the isolation of remote households from border price changes.52
Even when trade liberalization is intended
to be pro-poor, incomplete transmission of

195

Figure 9.4 It’s better for household welfare to be close to economic opportunities

Changes in
household welfare
> 5 percent
4–5 percent
2–4 percent
0–2 percent

Source: Nicita (2004).
Note: Welfare changes were calculated from the effects of trade liberalization–related price changes that affected
both the purchasing power and incomes of households.

border price changes for both exports and
imports means that benefits are not evenly
distributed. In other words, ease of access to
international markets matters. Unfortunately, those who could benefit most from
favorable price changes—the poor in remote
rural areas—are those least likely to be
affected by them.
Many of the factors responsible for transmitting trade-related price changes are also
important to the functioning of domestic
product markets. For instance, competition
among traders, infrastructure quality, and
transportation costs all influence how profits are allocated across a product’s life cycle
or value chain. And the percentage of a
good’s final price that goes to the primary
producer, intermediary producer, distributor, and retailer can vary tremendously.
The cashmere sector in Mongolia shows
how product market reforms could be both
equity- and efficiency-enhancing. If properly
developed, cashmere could be a pillar of
Mongolia’s successful transition from a command to a market economy. It is the country’s
single largest employer and a principal source
of livelihood for the poor. It provided jobs for
more than 16 percent of the workforce and
accounted for more than 6.3 percent of GDP

196

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

during 1993–2002. But unsatisfactory public
sector policies have meant that the industry
has not lived up to its potential.
One significant bottleneck is in marketing and distribution. Mongolia’s major cashmere market is in Ulaanbataar, 600–1,000
km from most regional production centers.
Herders generally have to sell to traders at
the farmgate or at informal provincial marketplaces at discounts of 10 to 45 percent
from prices in Ulaanbataar. With little
knowledge of market demand, individual
herders can incur costs traveling to markets
with no certainty of a sale. Policies that
encourage regional market centers and
herder cooperatives, as well as infrastructure
improvements, could reduce marketing
costs and increase herder’s margins.53
Soybean farming in India offers another
illustration of how product marketing
channels can improve equity. Ninety percent of the soybean crop is sold by small
farmers to traders, who act as purchasing
agents for buyers at a local, governmentmandated marketplace, called a mandi.
Farmers have only general information
about price trends and no choice but to
accept prices offered to them by traders or
the auction price on the day they bring their
goods to the mandi. As a result, traders can
exploit farmers and buyers using practices
that create systemwide inefficiencies.
Under the e-Choupal Initiative, ITC, one
of India’s leading private companies, placed
computers with Internet access in rural
farming villages. Each computer—placed in
a farmer’s home and serving about 10
villages—becomes a social gathering place
for the exchange of information and an
e-commerce hub. Farmers can use the computers to check prices, learn about farming
techniques, purchase inputs, and sell their
soybean crops at the previous day’s market
price. Farmers then have to transport their
crop to an ITC processing center, where it is
electronically weighed and the farmer is
immediately paid. Farmers selling to ITC
through an e-Choupal receive, on average,
2.5 percent more for their crops, and ITC
saves an additional 2.5 percent on procurement costs by cutting traders out of the loop.
Farmers also benefit from accurate weighing,

prompt payment, and information about
prices and price trends that allows them to
optimize their sales decisions. The eChoupal system continues to grow rapidly,
reaching more than 3.1 million farmers by
late 2004.54 The initiative illustrates how
improvements in technology and communications infrastructure can be good for both
equity and efficiency in product markets.
In addition to better marketing channels
and new technology, there are other ways to
improve product market competition that
can be good for equity. Measures that facilitate the entry of new firms often mean that
small and medium enterprises benefit at the
expense of large, politically connected
incumbents. Product market competition
can also drive consumer prices down and
make goods more affordable for the poor.
Of course, measures to improve competition benefit efficiency and growth as well,
improving the welfare of the poor.
Licensing restrictions—even when designed in the name of equity—are one way
to hamper competition. India reserves the
production of more than 600 manufactured
products, including apparel and textiles, to
small companies. This licensing regime
could cost the country jobs by preventing
small producers from growing and competing with larger manufacturers in, for example, China. High regulatory, administrative,
and fiscal burdens can also harm product
markets by keeping firms in the informal
sector. Informal firms face a number of constraints, including limited access to financing, which tend to leave them significantly
less productive than their formal sector
counterparts. For example, informal Turkish
brake manufacturers achieve only 22 percent
of U.S. productivity, while their formal sector
competitors achieve 89 percent. Affordable
access to titled land and reliable infrastructure (chapter 8) can also enhance firm and
product market competitiveness.55
As discussed, improving transportation
and logistical infrastructure can reduce the
cost of moving goods. Better transportation
links with other regions can also provide
insurance against regional price fluctuations.
For example, if there is a drought or food
shortage in one area, efficient regional con-

Markets and the macroeconomy

nections would allow consumers to import
reasonably priced food from other parts of
the country. Finally, better transport and
logistics systems reduce inventory costs by
making the timing of delivery more reliable,
again benefiting producers and consumers.56

Interactions between product
and labor markets
Changes in product markets, whether
induced by internal developments or external trade-related changes, can have powerful influences on the opportunities facing
workers. Standard trade theory predicts
that countries should export products that
use relatively abundant factors intensively.
Labor-abundant countries that open up
should see relative gains in unskilled wages,
as indeed occurred among the East Asian
tigers in the 1960s and 1970s.57
The Latin American experience stands in
sharp contrast. Many countries, including
Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Mexico, and Uruguay, saw wider wage differentials with increasing trade openness during
the late 1980s and 1990s. Some argue that this
was due to the massive insertion of lowincome Asian countries into global markets.
Others interpret the evidence as supporting
generalized skill-biased technical change, in
which trade opening facilitated processes of
restructuring, including the destruction of
jobs in inefficient industries, and rising
demand and relative wages for skilled workers.58 Whatever the reason, the question is
whether this was a source of rising inequality
in opportunity. Over the short to medium
term, this was almost certainly the case,
because unskilled workers cannot increase
skills quickly. Over the longer term, rising
wage differentials provide incentives for
investment in education, if education systems
provide equal opportunities (chapter 7).
Effects of economic restructuring on
workers also depend on the extent of labor
mobility. One study from India shows that
the effects of trade liberalization in the early
1990s on poverty varied by state, depending
on the flexibility of labor laws. In states with
less flexible laws, where liberalization did not
produce any measurable effect on the allocation of labor across sectors, the adverse

impact of trade opening on poverty was felt
the most. In states with more flexible labor
laws, movements of labor across sectors
eased the shock of relative price changes.59
While greater mobility is desirable, the
design of measures that increase flexibility
needs to be balanced with the levels of
worker protection that are appropriate for
the institutional setting (see the earlier discussion on labor markets).

Safety nets and opportunity
Safety nets complement product market
deepening and are often an essential element of a strategy to ensure that market
expansion leads to more equal opportunities. General questions of the design of
safety nets were discussed in chapter 7; here
we highlight the links with product market
change. As discussed above, trade opening
creates winners and losers. How this affects
equity depends partly on how governments
can offer support to the losers.
Rodrik (1998) finds that openness is
associated with higher government spending. The argument is that open economies
are more subject to external shocks and
spend more on social insurance to mitigate
external risk. In more advanced economies
with the capacity to manage social welfare
systems, exposure to external risk is strongly
correlated with spending on social security
and welfare. In less-developed economies,
governments rely on a broader set of tools,
such as public employment, to reduce risk.
The specific design of safety nets can
expand opportunities to those who suffer
adverse effects. For instance, trade adjustment assistance programs in the United
States extended unemployment benefits,
training, and relocation subsidies to displaced
workers. While the United States was offering
the programs in response to the NAFTA, the
Mexican government established Procampo, a
cash transfer program for grain farmers to
ease the pain of NAFTA-induced competition
from the United States. It was designed to
provide consumption support to compensate
for price declines and to allow farmers to
diversify into other activities. While the size of
the transfers was hurt by the 1995 Tequila
Crisis, there is evidence of gains to farmers

197

198

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

and of the use of proceeds for investment
purposes.60
While the ideal policy mix may be one that
combines reduced barriers and extensive
safety nets, in practice, this is not always feasible. Many countries phase liberalization to
seek to ensure that processes of job creation
precede or accompany job destruction—this
has been a central feature of the East Asian
experience (see discussion of China in chapter 6). This carries risks of slowing restructuring and extending protection beyond periods
justified by equity concerns because of capture by influential beneficiaries.

Credibility, political supportability,
and the design of product
market reform
While technocrats can design trade and
other product market reforms that appear
to be good for growth and equity, the
expected gains will never materialize if
there is not enough political support.
Because of the nature of trade policy—a
concentrated set of winners from trade barriers versus a diffuse set of winners from
liberalization (consumers in general)—it is
easy for vested interests to capture policy.
Steel tariffs in the United States and agricultural subsidies in the United States, Japan,
and Europe are obvious examples.
Even after trade liberalization laws have
been passed, they are still not immune to
capture. If economic actors do not believe
that reforms are credible—that is, that
politicians will recant at the behest of vested
interests—the anticipated adjustments will
never take place. Cashews in Mozambique
again provide an apt example. In the early
1990s, the Mozambican government (working with the World Bank) implemented a
new pricing regime that liberalized the
export of raw cashews. But there was no
credible political commitment to the new
pricing regime, so neither cashew farmers
nor cashew processors adjusted to the new
price signals. Efficiency gains from the reallocation of resources never materialized.61
While this section has emphasized the heterogeneity of effects of product market
changes, the policy message is not necessarily
one of detailed fine-tuning of reforms. That

brings risks of greater capture. The ideal
balance is a combination of gradual but committed liberalization with extensive engagement in the complementary measures that
broaden opportunities for all: education,
infrastructure, competition, and safety nets.
Societal debate and information can ensure
that governments remain accountable to all
groups, not just those with access and connections. Of particular importance for external
opening is the role of external commitments.
Entry into international agreements, such as
the WTO, the European Union, or NAFTA,
can effectively lock politicians into trade
reforms. When trade regulations are bound
by international agreements, reform commitments are more credible and less susceptible
to capture by domestic special interests
(asymmetries in power among the international parties to such agreements remain, as
we will read in chapter 10).

Macroeconomic management
and equity
Macroeconomic instability is both a
cause and consequence of inequity
Macroeconomic stability is a public good and
might be expected to equally affect all. There
is a well-established association between
macroeconomic stability and long-term
growth, and growth typically brings expansion in opportunities to everyone. But the
fact that stability is a public good does not
mean that the incidence of benefits is equal.
As discussed in chapter 4, the distribution of
income gains from economic growth is typically as unequal as the initial income distributions. Moreover, macroeconomic instability, whether in the form of volatility or
high inflation, can have differential and
potentially inequitable effects, because the
pattern of power and wealth can influence
the distribution of losses—and different
groups have differential capacities to manage the consequent shocks.
As in many other areas, there are twoway patterns of causation between macroeconomic conditions and equity. Unequal
patterns of power and associated institutional structures are at the center of
causative influences from inequity to insta-

Markets and the macroeconomy

bility and in regressive effects of crises. By
emphasizing these links, we are not arguing
against the large body of literature on economic causes of crises. Depending on the
type of crisis, this literature sees the causes
as fiscal imbalances, herdlike movements of
investors behind exchange rate crises, and
interactions among external liabilities,
exchange rates, and financial-corporate
conditions, especially under “crony capitalism.”62 Some of the processes in this literature complement the diagnosis here; others
are manifestations of underlying distributional and institutional conditions.
Figure 9.5 shows the bivariate correlation between macroeconomic volatility and
a measure of “constraints on the executive”
branch of government, which would be
expected to be closely linked to restraints on
elite power. Weaker constraints are associated with greater volatility (and a higher
propensity for macroeconomic crises).
The correlation says nothing about causation. But there is evidence supporting the
view that “weak and unequal” institutions
have a causative influence on economic
instability. A tradition of work interprets
instability as a consequence of distributional
struggles that are ineffectively managed by
institutions.63 As discussed in chapter 6, the
seminal work by Bates (1981) on Ghana
interprets exchange rate overvaluation and
internal pricing policies as mechanisms for
governments to severely tax cocoa farmers
in the early postindependence period to
provide resources to buy off urban groups. A
combination of predatory governments and
weak or absent balancing institutions created the preconditions for fights over rents
and systematic political instability until the
early 1980s. Analyses of hyperinflation, in
settings as diverse as Bolivia and Israel,
interpret macroeconomic instability as a
consequence of failures to manage societal
conflicts.64

Macroeconomic instability can
interact with unequal influence in
the fallout from crises
Crises, whatever the causes, are systematically bad for growth, more so in the presence of distributional struggles. Rodrik

Figure 9.5 Weaker institutions are associated with
macroeconomic volatility and crises
Standard deviation of GDP growth
20

15

10

5

0
0

2
4
6
Constraints on the executive index

8

Source: Authors’ calculations, using World Bank statistics and the
Polity IV database for constraints on the executive index.
Note: A higher value for the constraints on the executive index
denotes greater accountability.

(1999a) argues in a cross-country empirical
analysis that the effects of external shocks in
the 1970s were significantly worse for subsequent growth in societies in which latent
distributional conflicts (proxied by income
inequality or ethnolinguistic fragmentation) were more severe and conflictmanagement mechanisms (proxied by
institutional strength and indicators of
democracy) were weaker.
High inflation and macroeconomic
crises can be particularly harmful to the
poor, who are least equipped to manage
adverse shocks. For the impacts on distributional outcomes, household survey evidence
does not display systematic disequalizing or
equalizing biases across countries: the Mexican 1994–95 crisis was slightly equalizing
(although strongly poverty-increasing); the
2001 Argentine crisis was disequalizing.
There is some evidence that high inflation is
worse for poorer groups, for example, in the
Philippines65 and Brazil.66
Mechanisms for crisis resolution tend to
be inequitable as a result of unequal influence. Many of the results are not fully
reflected in household income and spending
surveys. The reason is that the big action
usually takes place elsewhere, notably in
changes in capital income and fiscal positions that the surveys typically fail to capture.

199

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

200

Figure 9.6 Labor shares fall during crises and don’t fully recover afterward
Mexico

Peru

Labor share

Labor share
50

25

20

20

15

15

4
199
7

25

198
2
198
5

30

197
0
197
3

30

199
4
199
7

35

198
8
199
1

35

198
2
198
5

40

197
6
197
9

40

197
0
197
3

Crisis year

45

197
6
197
9

45

199

Crisis year

198
8
199
1

50

Source: Authors’ calculations, based on national accounts.
Note: Crisis years are defined as years in which at least two out of three of the following occur: a 25 percent (or
higher) nominal devaluation, negative growth, and 50 percent (or higher) rate of inflation.

Table 9.3 Fiscal costs of selected
banking crises
Country
and episode

Fiscal cost
(percent of GDP)

Argentina, 1980–82

55.1

Brazil, 1994–96

13.2

Chile, 1981–83

41.2

Ecuador 1996–

13.0

México, 1994–

19.3

Venezuela, 1994–97

22.0

Korea, Rep. of, 1997–

26.5

Indonesia, 1997–

50.0

United States, 1981–91

3.2

Source: Honohan and Klingebiel (2000).
Note: Costs refer to both fiscal and quasi-fiscal
outlays and the present value of the future
stream of costs. Banking crises in Ecuador,
Mexico, the Republic of Korea, and Indonesia
were ongoing at the time of the study.

There is evidence that crises lead to reductions in measured labor share (strongly influenced by formal sector earnings and
employment). Diwan (2001) finds that
labor shares systematically fall during crises
and don’t fully recover afterward, a crosscountry result illustrated for Mexico and
Peru in figure 9.6.67 The flip side of this pattern is that the shares of corporate and
financial sector capital income rise relative
to wages. There are also significant interactions with structural variables. In particular, closed trade, capital controls, and fiscal
deficits are associated with higher labor
shares in normal times, but with larger falls
in labor shares when crises occur. Crises are
mechanisms for the resolution of distributional conflicts that are not tackled during
good economic times. Labor is relatively
immobile and so typically bears a higher
proportion of the cost. Pre-crisis labor
shares may, in some cases, have been too
high for competitiveness and stability, but
the point is that crises are a high-cost form
of conflict resolution. And the interaction
between shocks and weak conflict resolution mechanisms is associated with weaker
long-run growth.68
In addition to any effects through the
distribution of labor and capital income,
important mechanisms work through the
financial sector and associated fiscal action.

Major crises lead to large financial losses,
typically financed by both explicit and
implicit fiscal outlays. Case study evidence
indicates that these are highly regressive,
through gainers and losers from capital
flights, transfers from those outside to
within the financial system, and the patterns of bailout among financial sector participants.
The fiscal costs of crises are large (table
9.3). For example, the post–Tequila Crisis
Mexican bailout is estimated at $112 billion, with a large additional amount spent
trying to prevent crises through liquidity
support, sovereign bond swaps, and the
financing of large investors who withdraw
money from projects.69 Halac and Schmukler (2003) use the $23 billion decline in the
central bank’s reserves between February
and December 1994 as a proxy, calculating a
total fiscal and quasi-fiscal cost of the crisis
of $135 billion. This represents about onequarter of Mexico’s GDP in 2000 and some
four times the $33 billion in capital receipts
from privatization during the 1990s.
What is the pattern of gainers and losers?
Some wealthy individuals undoubtedly lose
their shirts. But there are strong tendencies
for the poor to lose, sometimes to lose a lot.
First, the wealthy with information and
access to international banking systems get
their money out first. And they may actually
experience capital gains when domestic asset
prices tumble and the exchange rate goes
against the currency. In Argentina, the ratio
of foreign assets to domestic GDP rose from
about a quarter to more than 90 percent
between 2001 and early 2002, because of a
combination of capital flight and currency
depreciation (figure 9.7).
Second, the recipients of fiscal bailouts
are those within the financial system—
depositors, creditors, and equity owners,
who are systematically better off than those
outside. (There are of course small middleincome depositors but, as noted below, it is
possible to protect them without providing
blanket protection for all.) Case study evidence finds biases toward wealthy and more
influential individuals and groups within
financial systems. Owners of large deposits
enjoyed the greatest compensation (and

Markets and the macroeconomy

sometimes capital gains) in crises in
Argentina, Ecuador, and Uruguay, often
through getting their money out of the
country, while small depositors suffered
capital losses. In addition, there is evidence
that large borrowers with close connections
to banks were especially favored in crises in
Chile, Ecuador, and Mexico.70
Crisis costs are paid for by some combination of higher taxes and lower spending.
Who pays depends on the marginal pattern
of taxation and spending. As a first approximation on the tax side, many developingcountry tax systems are roughly proportional (everyone pays the same proportion
of their income, primarily through indirect
taxation). On the spending side, work on
Latin America and Asia in the 1990s finds
that marginal spending was generally progressive, as the expansion of social and
infrastructure programs “crowded in”
poorer groups.71 Thus, the forgone spending hurt poorer groups the most. The net
effect is a regressive workout financed
largely by regressive fiscal adjustment.
While case study evidence indicates a
strong pattern of regressive consequences of

Figure 9.7 In Argentina, the wealthy had a way out
during the crisis
Net private foreign assets (US$ billions)
Net private foreign assets (percent of GDP)

t
ligh

9b

12.

=$

al f

pit

Ca

110.0

n
illio

94.4

107.3

102.2
97.2

95.4

94.4

20.0

Dec.
2000

22.4

Mar.
2001

21.0

Jun.
2001

24.4

Sep.
2001

28.6

Dec.
2001

Mar.
2002

Source: Ministry of the Economy, Argentina.
Note: The sharp increase between December 2001 and March
2002 was because of the exchange rate devaluation.

201

crises, this is contingent on initial structures, patterns of influence, and policy
specifics. For example, the Russian crisis,
while undoubtedly costly in social terms,
may have led to a surprisingly positive shift
to more equitable structures of resource
management (box 9.6).

Policy directions need to take account
of policy design and accountability
structures
Macroeconomic instability is thus both
product and cause of underlying inequalities and associated weak institutions. The
costs are large to equity and growth. What
can be done? As in other areas, it helps to
answer this question in terms of the com-

BOX 9.6

Did the Russian 1998 crisis have equitable
consequences?

The Russian crisis was at first glance typical of
crises of the 1990s—driven by interactions
between private capital movements and
domestic institutional structures that encouraged moral hazard, and with large adverse
effects for welfare.The social costs were
severe, with a fall in GDP of 5 percent in 1998.
Between 1996 and 1998 household per capita
expenditures fell 25 percent, expenditure
poverty rose from 22 to 33 percent and government transfers fell by 18 percent, albeit
with better targeting (Lokshin and Ravallion
2000).There was also major capital flight, with
many of the rich getting their assets out fast,
leaving the rest of the society to share the
costs.This fact alone is a sign of great inequity:
the rich had more opportunity to protect their
assets by shifting money out of the country.
This (individually rational) behavior imposed
costs on less wealthy groups.
But the transition appears to have had
additional effects that were, at least to some
degree, more equitable. Russia before the
crisis was in a particularly inefficient and
inequitable equilibrium, in which firms did
not pay their energy or tax bills, and the
energy sector didn’t pay its taxes. Firms
were not allowed to go under for fear of
employment effects, but this was a highly
ineffective safety net. Subsidies were estimated at 15 to 20 percent of GDP in the
three years before the crisis, fueling corruption and delaying enterprise restructuring.
There was extensive asset-stripping at the
cost of the broader society.

The crisis triggered major changes in
economic relationships.The strategy of
“devalue and default” led to large relative
price movements and cut Russia off from
international capital markets.The cutoff,
combined with the authorities’ recognition
of the unpopularity of hyperinflation, finally
forced hard budget constraints on the system, which had powerful ripple effects in
inducing the demise of the nonpayments
system, making economic transactions
more transparent and laying the basis for a
recovery in taxes. Real exchange rate depreciation made many firms competitive again,
and this fed through into employment. Furthermore, the big Moscow banks were
allowed to fail (with total costs, largely
incurred before the meltdown, a relatively
low 2 percent of GDP). And the default
meant that external holders of Russian
paper took an immediate loss, effectively
allowing a degree of international burdensharing. While there were undoubtedly reputational costs, there may have been an
advantage in taking this upfront, rather
than after protracted negotiations. Overall,
while a serious analysis of impacts on equality of opportunity is not feasible, the effective shift in regime from a system in which
influence played a dominant role in
resource allocation to one of hard budget
constraints and greater transparency was
probably good for efficiency and equity.
Source: Pinto and others (forthcoming).

202

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

plementary role of specific policy design
and the deepening of accountability structures and societal mechanisms to manage
conflict. The Israeli hyperinflation provides
an illustration. Its resolution involved both
a full set of financial and macroeconomic
policies and an intensive process of societal
interaction to manage underlying conflicts
between organized labor, the corporate sector, and other interest groups.72
There is an extensive body of literature
on design specifics. Thus, we conclude with
some comments on the principles of macroeconomic management that emerge from a
focus on equity. Some of the principles are
fairly familiar, especially the need to build
stronger regulatory and supervisory structures for the financial system and comprehensive insurance mechanisms while out of
crisis. Once a crisis hits, it is particularly difficult to design and implement such measures and politically difficult to implement
more equitable outcomes. By contrast ex
ante insurance design—whether for depositors, bankruptcy, or unemployment—is
more likely to be broad based and, if already
in place, reduces the case for ex post deals
tailored to the influential.
Less obvious is a heightened emphasis
on fiscal prudence. In public debates,
adopting a less stringent macroeconomic
stance is often portrayed as a distributionally progressive approach, whether in good
times or bad. While there will always be
specific judgments about the distributional impacts of a range of fiscal and
monetary policy options, the analysis here
suggests that taking a “superprudent” position over the course of the cycle provides
greater hope for supporting a more equal
development pattern. On one level, this
sharply reinforces the common prescription to break procyclical policy positions.
Macroeconomic restraint in good times
will facilitate automatic stabilizers and a
sensible easing of policies to be applied in
a disciplined fashion when adverse shocks
occur. Thus, the priority is to build fiscal
rules and institutions that help overcome
the political pressures to deplete potential
surpluses in good times, as well as informational asymmetry problems. These insi-

tutions should also improve the credibility
of countercyclical fiscal policies during
downturns.73 This strategy would, in particular, provide the macroeconomic foundation for broad-based, self-expanding
safety nets.
Finally, there is a case for different forms
of accountability. Over the long term, the
most effective approach is to move to new
fiscal and social contracts built on deeper
accountability structures—to a better political equilibrium.74 There is then a need for
an appropriate mix of stronger regulatory
accountability shielded from short-run
political pressures from all sides—more
independent central banks and stronger
financial sector supervision—and greater
transparency and debate about the overall
design of macropolicy and the incidence of
workouts. There are important interactions
with external actors and rules for crisis
management that will be taken up in chapter 10.
In sum, we have explored policies that,
by leveling the playing field in the markets
for capital, labor, and goods and by managing the macroeconomy, can lead to greater
equity and prosperity. Financial markets
are typically biased toward incumbents,
reflecting the historical political influence
of the powerful. Yet rapid and ill-designed
liberalizations can lead to further concentration of influence. Greater societal controls are needed as well as a more measured
tackling of barriers—especially to small
and medium firms—backed by regulatory
structures and more information to reduce
the power of connections.
Labor market outcomes may reflect the
weak bargaining position of workers, but
labor policies often lead to patterns of job
protection that create economic rigidities
and help those in good jobs, to the detriment of those in the informal economy.
Support for unions and security for workers
are important objectives, but designs need
to be adapted to economic conditions in
ways that reach poorer, informal workers
and minimize impediments to economic
restructuring.
Both the design of external trade policy
and the workings of internal product mar-

Markets and the macroeconomy

kets reflect patterns of influence. Removing biases and ensuring access to all need
to be complemented by measures to expand
skills, infrastructure, and safety nets to
achieve genuine access and to manage losses
(especially horizontal inequities). Imprudent macroeconomic policy is typically
inequitable: high inflation hurts those least
capable of managing its consequences, and

financial crises are particularly pernicious,
because the powerful can benefit or be
bailed out at the expense of the rest of society. Prudent macroeconomic management,
backed by strong countercyclical policy and
independence in policy design is an ally,
not a foe, of greater equity. We now turn to
policies that can help level the global playing field.

203

focus 6 on

regional inequality

The role of public policy in addressing spatial inequalities
The persistence of regional disparities within countries is a major policy concern confronting many governments in rich
and poor countries alike. Clarity on the causal factors of weak regional performance and careful consideration of
potential tradeoffs are needed to guide policy choice over regional interventions.

T

he average income in Brazil’s northeast is less than half the national
average. Poverty rates are far higher
than the national average in India’s densely
populated states of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, and
Orissa, and the regional income gap appears
to be widening. In 1990, children in the
northwest region of Nigeria were four times
less likely to receive any immunizations and
50 percent more likely to die by age five than
those near the capital in the southwest; by
1999 they were five times less likely to receive
any immunizations and 85 percent more
likely to die before age five. Chronic regional
underperformance can give rise to many
concerns and threaten national unity—lost
economic potential, unfairness in regional
opportunities, potential instability, loss of
social cohesion, and adverse social consequences, including higher crime and disease.
The geographic and historical factors
underlying interregional inequality are
complex and overlapping. Weak resource
endowments and distance from markets
can constrain development in lagging
regions. In many cases, economic differences are linked with long-standing,
unequal relations of power between advantaged and lagging regions, and institutional
weaknesses within the latter.1 When actors
in advantaged regions control the assets,
decision-making and policy formation
processes, and the terms of the policy
debates on which lagging regions depend,
regional “catch up” is much more difficult.2
When historically disadvantaged ethnic,
racial, and social groups are concentrated in
particular regions, group-based inequities
become reflected in regional inequalities.
This is the case in parts of Latin America,
where indigenous groups are both poorer
and concentrated in poorer regions,3 and in
Vietnam and in India where tribal groups
(adivasis) are spatially concentrated.4
In the absence of redistributive fiscal
transfers, recent reforms in many countries
toward greater decentralization may aggravate regional disparities. The positive effects
of decentralization may be lost in regions

that have weaker fiscal capacity, such as in
Argentina’s experience with decentralizing
reforms in education.5 In poor regions where
regional elites have particularly concentrated
power, decentralization may also deepen
both intra- and inter-regional inequalities.6
Trends in inter-regional inequality have
varied considerably across countries. The
United States has experienced convergence
and lower interregional income disparities.
Indonesia shows convergence of provincial
incomes since the 1970s. Brazil has seen
divergence over many decades, but recently
has shown convergence. Evidence on India
also suggests divergence. China’s pattern of
growth has reduced gaps in the 1970s and
1980s, which widened in the 1990s. And in
Mexico a long-run trend of slow convergence
in incomes shifted to one of slow divergence
after an opening that started in the late 1980s.

Characteristics of lagging regions
The reasons for regions to lag varies, and we
present a simple taxonomy.
Low poverty density, low market access.
These regions are sparsely populated,
remote, and face particular geographic challenges. Distance and poor resource endowment—often with weak social indicators,
generally poor infrastructure, and weak
regional voice—place these regions at the
periphery of national economic activity and
opportunity. Supporting development of
these regions may be desirable on poverty
grounds, but it is likely to be expensive.
Low poverty density, high market access.
These regions typically have been booming
at one point in history, and were well inte-

grated with the national economy. But
changing demand patterns or resource
exhaustion became sources of decline, even
though political influence may have persisted. For such “rustbelt” regions, there is a
case for public support for movement of
people and resources out of declining
industries, backed by social safety nets for
the affected workforce.
High poverty density, high or low market
access. These regions are most often considered for targeted interventions: poverty is
concentrated in them, population density is
relatively high, and the lack of market integration is due to history rather than geography. Possible culprits include weak governance, poor institutional capacity and
human capital, a history of sociocultural
conflict and domination, a poor investment
climate, and security problems. Such
regions are often home to socially, racially,
and ethnically disadvantaged groups.
Where such groups are dispersed or patronclient relationships dominate, the challenge
of fostering organization, agency, and political influence is especially great.7

Regional development policies
and tradeoffs
Regional development policies involve
interventions to facilitate inward investment, enhance income opportunities and
well-being in lagging regions, help households move to opportunities elsewhere, and
shift interregional power relations. Policies
are context specific and involve tradeoffs. If
lagging regional performance reflects geographic disadvantages or an absence of

Market access (population density, transport costs)

Poverty density
(poor or disadvantaged
people per square
kilometer)

Low

High

Low

• Chile’s “zonas extremas”
• Russian North
(state-sponsored settlements)
• Northern Canada

• N.E. China’s “rustbelt” region
• Developed country “coal towns”
(France, U.K., U.S.)

High

• Thailand’s northeast
• Mexico’s southern states

• India’s “Hindu Belt” poor and
populous states
• Italy’s southern Mezzogiorno

Focus on regional inequality

agglomeration and scale economies, public
interventions may be particularly expensive. But when public policy is designed to
correct market failures (such as underdeveloped insurance or credit markets),
address specific social or historical factors
handicapping regional performance, or
capture externalities intrinsic to national
welfare (cultural, environmental, security),
there may be few or no efficiency tradeoffs.
Fiscal incentives
A popular approach involves fiscal incentives to induce industry to locate and invest
in lagging regions: tax advantages, insurance
or risk-sharing arrangements, direct subsidies, or indirect subsidies through provision
of low-cost public services. But evaluations
of fiscal incentives generally indicate that
they can be costly and ineffective. Brazil’s
efforts to develop the manufacturing center
of Manaus in the north have been a success
by some measures, but costs per job created
are high.8 Interregional “fiscal wars” can also
occur as regions compete to attract businesses. If uncoordinated or unconstrained,
these can have adverse consequences for
local tax bases and public services in competing jurisdictions. Compared to the alternatives listed below, this tends to be a highdistortion strategy.
Public investment
Targeted public investment, particularly in
core infrastructure, is another policy
response aimed at reducing geographic disincentives to firm location, whether for
existing or new firms. China has followed
this strategy, first in the coastal special economic zones, and now in western regions
(see box below).
Investment in regional infrastructure
links may enhance productivity of existing
firms and attract new firms. But, it also
allows more efficient firms in richer regions

to sell to lagging regions. This is one factor
that has slowed development of the relatively poor Mezzogiorno region of southern
Italy, despite large investments in national
north-south infrastructure that has reduced
transport costs.9
Facilitating labor mobility
Facilitating voluntary labor movement to
higher opportunity areas is another strategy. In contrast to fiscal incentives and public investments that focus on bringing jobs
to poor areas, this strategy focuses on
bringing poor people to areas with more
potential. Relocation assistance can include
transport, housing, training, resettlement
allowances, and portable safety nets. Examples included incentives in Russia for families to relocate from their northern settlements—developed at huge state expense for
resource extraction and security purposes
during the Cold War—and incentives to
support movement of labor out of declining industries, such as the moribund coal
sectors in Western Europe and the former
Soviet Union since the 1960s. While the
programs have helped ease the impact of
unemployment, there are questions about
cost effectiveness and long-term impact.
There is also a long history of efforts to
direct settlement of remote regions or
encourage migration to frontier lands.
Early settlers to the Americas, including the
west and midwestern regions of the United
States, were beneficiaries of legal land
grants to clear and use new land. More
recent programs include Indonesia’s transmigration program that shifted Javanese to
sparsely populated outer islands in the
1970s and 1980s, or early Ethiopian resettlement programs to fertile areas in the
south and southwest regions of the country.
However, these and other resettlement programs have been criticized for their coercive
or ethnic dimensions, raising questions

205

about the adverse impact on indigenous
population groups and settlers.
Enhancing agency
Where intergroup inequalities in agency
underlie regional disadvantage, national
and regional policies addressing discrimination, racism, and citizenship deficits can
be important instruments for dealing with
spatial inequality. Enhancing voice and participation of excluded groups is also important for national peace and cohesion. While
ethnic discrimination and regional disadvantage do not necessarily lead to conflict,
researchers and truth and reconciliation
commissions alike have identified them as
contributing factors.10 In Aceh, Indonesia,
oil rents have been transferred back to the
region since 1976, yet regional conflict and
demands for autonomy have increased
rather than abated.11 This suggests that
transfers alone are not sufficient to address
regionally concentrated grievances—they
must be accompanied by meaningful political participation and dialogue.

Conclusion
The specific nature of the constraints to
regional growth and investment performance in lagging regions needs to be identified and prioritized. Policies that provide
fiscal incentives to investors are likely to fail
if the main factors that adversely influence
regional investment climate—quality of
local institutions, skilled labor availability,
proximity to key markets, functioning capital and land markets, security risks—still
pose binding constraints.
Public investment in infrastructure that
reduces transport costs for both people and
goods has often proved an effective strategy
for integration. And, as with other policies,
well designed technical solutions are more
likely to be implemented if those living in
poorer regions are empowered.

Development of lagging regions in China
Unprecedented economic growth and poverty
reduction in China have been accompanied by
significant increases in regional disparities since
the economic reform in the late 1970s.The
socioeconomic costs of a sustained divergence
in income between leading and lagging regions
has become a major concern of the government.
In 1999, the government initiated the “Go
West” strategy to develop the lagging western
region. Through targeted public investments
and fiscal subsidies, the central government

spent some 1,000 billion yuan (US$120
billion) in the past five years, focusing on
infrastructure, education, health, and the environment. A variety of investment incentives
and low interest loans aimed to attract
domestic and foreign firms to areas in which
the western region has some comparative
advantage, such as energy, agriculture, and
agroprocessing.
The relative decline of the historically
advantaged northeastern region has also

attracted concern. China’s northeast currently
suffers from slow growth and high unemployment in declining industries, along with many
severely distressed towns and cities.The government started the “Revitalize Northeast” strategy
in 2003.This involves new initiatives, including
strengthening the investment climate, developing greater flexibility in factor markets, using
public funds to support rather than postpone
adjustment, and mitigating social costs through
improved and portable safety nets.

Achieving greater global equity

10

chapter

206

We read in chapter 2 that there are huge
inequities in the world. Even better-off citizens in most of the developing world face
worse opportunities than the poor in rich
countries. The fact that country of birth is a
key determinant of people’s opportunities
runs counter to our view of equity—that is,
that people should enjoy the same opportunities regardless of their background,
including where they are born.
Greater global equity is desirable for
itself to all those who find equity intrinsically valuable. The international human
rights regime testifies to the shared belief
that all should have equal rights and be
spared extreme deprivation. Some even
argue that there is a powerful moral case for
rich countries to take action, because of the
huge disparities and (arguably) because
they partly created and perpetuate global
inequities.1 Greater equity is also desirable
because it would likely be beneficial to
global prosperity in the long run. Greater
equity in access to health and health remedies, especially for transmittable diseases,
would reduce global health inequalities and
be beneficial to poor and rich countries
alike. Greater equity in access to and control
over natural resources and the global commons may lead to more sustainable use.
Some argue that greater equity could also
lead to greater international stability: fragile
and failed states pose a threat to local and
global stability.2
What can be done to reduce the huge
inequities we experience today? The debate
about what causes global inequities and
how to address them is highly contentious.
Some see globalization—greater global
integration—as a source of equalization,
others a source of widening inequalities,
with richer countries and corporations

making rules that benefit themselves at the
cost of the weak, poor, and voiceless. There
is some truth on all sides of the debate. In
terms of trends, we saw in chapter 2 that the
picture is mixed: convergence in health and
(probably) education for many, convergence in incomes for some, but divergence
in incomes and health for others. In terms
of causes, just as some of the major sources
of convergence have been associated with
globalization of markets and knowledge—
the East Asian tigers, China, India making
use of global markets, the spread of the
green revolution and health-related technology—so unequal rules and unequal
influence profoundly shape opportunity.
Domestic action is clearly central to
reducing inequities. Developing countries
hold the keys to their prosperity; global
action cannot substitute for equitable and
efficient domestic policies and institutions.
But global conditions powerfully affect the
scope for and impact of domestic policies.
Global action—by governments, people,
and organizations in developed countries
and by international institutions—can determine whether the globalization process
brings about greater equity, peace, and prosperity, or fuels tensions and conflicts that
will lead to backlash and violence.
Current disparities are products of interactions between two factors: the endowments
of different countries, and the rules shaping
the options for deploying these endowments
on domestic and global markets. Endowments are greatly unequal due to history and
geography—although some of the history
and aspects of geography are a product of
unequal development patterns. Infrastructure underdevelopment in Africa, for example, is partly a legacy of colonial political and
economic patterns. Institutional weaknesses

Achieving greater global equity

of poorer societies—now part of their
endowment—also reflect historical patterns, as discussed in chapter 6. Differences
in endowments are often exacerbated by the
inequitable functioning of markets. As in
the domestic realm, market imperfections
can be either a product of policy (as in barriers to labor mobility or agricultural protection) or of intrinsic market failures (as in
weak protection of global commons and
lack of incentives for knowledge creation).
Achieving greater global equity thus
requires global policies that improve
endowments and address market imperfections and more representative global insitutions. We first discuss the global markets for
labor, goods, ideas, and capital—all functioning within the context of international
law (box 10.1). For each market, we highlight existing inequities and their impact,
discuss the processes that lead to such
inequities, and explore some options for
change. We next turn to rectifying past and

BOX 10.1

207

present inequities in the use of natural
resources. Then we look at whether aid—
the traditional response to global
inequity—can be used effectively to accelerate domestic efforts to build endowments.
The current state of international relations
may cause some to wonder whether any
change is possible. So we close the chapter
by examining factors that have facilitated
transitions to more equitable policies and
institutions in the past. We conclude that
change may be difficult but not impossible.3

Making global markets work
more equitably
Global markets have many faces: Filipino
nurses, Sri Lankan domestic workers, Polish
care providers, Indian engineers, Ugandan
coffee growers, Bangladeshi women working
in garment factories, Moroccan craftsmen,
employers of migrants, and the consumers of
developing-country products in Australia,

International law, globalization, and equity

Globalization takes place (mostly) in the context
of international law, which governs relations
among states, and other international legal subjects, such as international organizations. More
equitable development, application, monitoring,
and enforcement of international law is essential to make globalization more equitable.
The meaning of equity in international law. Equity
considerations inform the development of international law,confirming that greater global equity is a
shared value.The principle of equity has accompanied the development of international law over the
centuries (chapter 4).Equity in international law
encompasses notions of corrective justice and distributive justice—that the strict application of the
law should be tempered by considerations of
equity or fairness to achieve a just result,and that
international law should promote a more even distribution of resources among states.Equitable principles have been applied to many areas of international law,from the sharing of scientific benefits,
technology,and natural resources to laws governing the sea,international waterways,outer space,
and carbon emissions.As highlighted in chapter 4,
the most pertinent example of the application of
principles of equity in international law is the international human rights regime.In today’s
international law,equity has not only an interstate
dimension;it also has an intergenerational dimension,in the preservation of the environment and
other global commons,as we will see below.

Rule-setting processes. International laws are
formed through complex negotiating processes.
The degree to which these processes are
perceived to be equitable affects their adoption
and implementation—so processes matter
greatly. Generally, a state remains free to decide
whether to become a party to a convention or
covenant. And a state’s satisfaction with the
process leading to the adoption of a convention
may facilitate signing and subsequent adoption.
For example, the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights, seen by many as the basis of subsequent human rights instruments, was
adopted by the U.N. General Assembly, where all
countries are represented and have one vote.
While only a declaration, and not intended to
bind states at the time it was adopted, the
process leading to its adoption was perceived to
be equitable.The body of standards set by the
ILO is another example of rules set through an
international process that is broadly consultative, encompassing not just governments but
unions and private sector representatives. On
the other hand, the rule-setting processes of the
World Trade Organization (and its predecessor,
the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade) are
perceived by some as inequitable, and this is
partly responsible for the current stalemate.
Application and enforcement mechanisms.
The processes that interpret, apply, and enforce
international laws are crucial to realizing

greater equity. In general, the ability of states
to pursue and enforce rights under
international law depends on appropriate
adjudication processes or complaint
mechanisms and their effectiveness. A number
of international courts and other adjudicative
bodies often have voluntary jurisdiction, but
there is a trend toward judicialization and compulsory jurisdiction. For example, dispute settlement arrangements established under the
1982 U.N. Convention on the Law of the Sea
and the 1994 World Trade Organization
Dispute Settlement Understanding mark a significant move toward compulsory jurisdiction
and binding decision making.
The ability of citizens and other nonstate
actors to pursue their rights and seek redress
under international law depends on whether
their state has become a party to the
instruments that allow the use of compliance
mechanism. For example, for citizens to make a
complaint against their state under the International Covenant of Civil and Political Rights, the
state must have signed and ratified the First
Optional Protocol, which allows a complaint to
be heard by the Human Rights Committee
established by the covenant. As the discussion
indicates and in parallel to what happens on the
domestic arena, rules often block access, even
before expenses, knowledge, and capacity limit
effective recourse.

208

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

the European countries, Japan, the United
States, and the richer middle-income countries. Global markets create valuable economic opportunities for millions of people,
who develop ideas, raise capital, and sell their
products and their labor.
But unequal endowments and unfair
processes mean that opportunities and rules
are not the same for all. Inequities exist in
the functioning of these markets. Unskilled
workers from poor countries, who could
earn higher returns in rich countries, face
great hurdles in migrating. Developingcountry producers face obstacles in selling
agricultural products, manufactured items,
and services in developed countries. Foreign
investors often get better deals in debt crises.
In most cases, more equitable rules
would bring benefits to both developed and
developing countries, but the extent of benefits varies by market. Barriers are massively
greater in the market for labor—the factor
of production that the poor own in relative
abundance—than in the markets for goods
and capital, and factor price equalization
clearly does not work through trade alone.
So removing barriers to migration could
have a significant impact on expanding

Figure 10.1 Wage differentials are substantially
larger today than at the end of the nineteenth century
Ratios of purchasing power parity adjusted wages of
the United States and its migration partners in 1870
and pairs of countries in the 1990s
USA/Ireland
1870
USA/Norway
1870
USA/Sweden
1870
USA/Italy
1870
Spain/Morocco
1990s
USA/Guatemala
1990s
UK/Kenya
1990s
Italy/Ethiopia
1990s
NLD/Indonesia
1990s
Japan/Vietnam
1990s
0.0 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 5.0 6.0 7.0 8.0 9.0 10.0
Ratio of wages in PPP
Source: Pritchett (2003).

people’s opportunities (of course, migration raises complex issues that are politically and socially difficult to tackle in
sending and receiving countries).
Benefits also vary greatly depending on
country context. The fast-growing developing countries, including China and India
that are home to half the world’s poorest
people, stand to benefit significantly from
more equitable global markets. Leveling the
global playing field can help them sustain
fast growth, while equitable domestic policies help ensure that this growth is shared.
Countries with more limited endowments,
such as many African countries, that are left
behind in the global economy, stand to benefit less in the short to medium run from
more equitable global markets.

Greater international labor mobility
Returns to capital, and to some extent
skilled labor, tend to equalize across countries, but returns to unskilled labor, owned
by poor people and in abundant supply in
poor countries, generally do not converge.
Wage differentials across countries for jobs
requiring similar skills are large, and substantially larger than the wage gap between
the United States and migrant-sending
countries in the late nineteenth century (figure 10.1). Developed countries severely limit
in-migration of unskilled and semi-skilled
workers, which contributes to the lack of
equalization in returns to unskilled labor.
Greater migration of unskilled labor
would tend to equalize returns, with winners and losers, but with potentially beneficial effects on efficiency. History teaches us
that migration has, at various times, alleviated human suffering and promoted cultural and technological exchanges. The mass
migration from Europe to the Americas in
the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries
enabled 60 million people to escape poverty
and persecution, creating some of today’s
wealthiest societies (although Native Americans faced enormous losses in the process).4
Economic analyses indicate that gains
from expanding migration could be very
significant. Hamilton and Whalley (1984)
use a highly simplified economic model of
the world to suggest that the benefits from
reallocation of labor could be huge (on the

Achieving greater global equity

order of doubling GDP). This, of course,
depends on the specific assumptions used
and ignores a host of adjustment issues, but
it does serve to illustrate that the gains
could be large and probably much larger
than the gains from the, by comparison,
already greatly liberalized trade in goods.
Indeed, using an approach similar to that
of analyses of trade impacts, Walmsley
and Winters (2003) estimated that increasing temporary migration into industrial
countries by 3 percent of host countries’
current skilled and unskilled work force—
equivalent to permitting an extra 8 million
skilled and 8.4 million unskilled workers to
be employed at any time, roughly a doubling of current net migration into highincome countries—would generate an estimated increase in world welfare of more
than $150 billion a year. This increase
would be shared fairly equally between
developing- and developed-country citizens. Much of the gain would come from
the migration of unskilled workers. Country studies confirm that migration could
have a significant impact. Annabi and others (forthcoming) found that a 50 percent
increase in the flow of remittances to
Bangladesh would reduce the incidence of
$1 per day income poverty by 0.8 percent in
the short run and by 4 percent by 2020.5
Doesn’t migration raise income inequality in sending countries? As a high-risk,
high-return activity, migration is more
likely to be undertaken first by members of
wealthier, less credit-constrained, bettereducated households. Successful migrants
later provide information and assistance to
potential migrants through social networks,
thus lowering risks and costs and making it
possible for members of households in
lower parts of the income distribution to
migrate.6 In the first stages of the migration
process, remittances sent to wealthier
households can increase inequality, if they
are higher than forgone income.7 As migration expands, remittances begin to arrive to
less well-off households and income distribution improves.8 Remittances also have
indirect effects through greater spending,
risk diversification, and easing of credit
constraints, which are generally inequalityreducing.9 On balance, the evidence does

not support the view that migration leads
unequivocally to higher inequality in sending countries.
In receiving countries, migration relieves
labor shortages in labor-intensive sectors,
such as health care, hotels and restaurants,
and construction. As developed-country
populations age and their levels of education and training rise, these shortages are
likely to become more severe. Demographic
trends are another powerful force behind
migration. Current population projections
imply that the labor forces of Europe and
Japan will decline over the next century, and
that the ratio of people of working age to
people of retirement age (the support ratio)
will grow to levels that would make current
pension and social transfer schemes unviable. Meanwhile, the population of the
North Africa countries south of Europe is
growing rapidly.
Despite its large benefits, migration is
fiercely opposed in receiving countries.
Migration involves complex issues of national
and individual identity exacerbated by concerns over security. Cultural and social
integration appears more difficult in some
countries than it was earlier thought.
Moreover, unskilled workers experience
wage erosion and unemployment. For
industrial workers, however, this is no different than if goods produced in countries
with lower labor costs displace domestic
production.
In sending countries, there are concerns
about the human and social costs of migration, for instance, on how migration of
nurses and doctors hinders progress toward
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs)
and migration of women creates major
deficits in child rearing, family support,
and care for the elderly.10 Licensing restrictions (as for doctors) often force skilled
migrants to work in lower-skilled jobs in
host countries—the “brain waste,” and
higher returns to education, do not appear
to spur human capital accumulation or
“brain gain.”11
Going against the political tide—with
the partial exceptions of some currents in
the United States, Canada and Spain—we
argue that greater migration would be good
for both equity and efficiency. But what are

209

210

BOX 10.2

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Making migrant worker schemes more
development friendly

Attention to the design of temporary migrant
worker schemes and complementary policies
could make them more development
friendly.Temporary migration schemes usually allow workers into a country from several
weeks to up to three to five years.
Recent research for the United Kingdom
identified two main policy interventions:
centralized recruitment with government
screening in sending countries, and mandatory saving schemes, possibly coupled with
credit schemes in home countries. Centralized recruitment and government screening

could help reduce exploitation of potential
migrants by local recruitment agencies and
ensure that temporary migrants do not
overstay their visas, reducing resistance in
receiving countries. Saving schemes would
encourage migrants to send remittances
home, increase incentives to return, and
facilitate the start of productive activities on
return. Good examples are the Canada-Mexico program for agricultural workers and the
agreement between France and Sri Lanka
on sharing information about migrants.
Sources: Barber (2003); Schiff (2005).

the prospects for greater migration in the
current political climate? Multilateral negotiations in the World Trade Organization
(WTO) offer a framework to address
migration under Mode IV of the General
Agreement in Trade and Services (GATS),
part of the treaty establishing the WTO.12
But progress toward greater liberalization of
temporary migration under GATS Mode IV
is unlikely in the near future, given that
contentious issues on agricultural and merchandise trade are dominating negotiations
on the Doha Round.
In this context, progress is more likely to
come from bilateral and regional negotiations. Receiving countries could bilaterally
expand temporary migration (box 10.2 discusses some features of “developmentfriendly” temporary migration schemes).
These countries could also extend greater
protection to migrants. One way to do this
could be to ratify the 1990 U.N. Convention
on the Rights of All Migrant Workers and
Their Families. If a significant number of
host countries were to ratify the convention, none would risk being considered a
haven for undocumented migrants, and
fears about ratification leading to greater
inflows might be allayed.13 Facilitating
remittance flows is another action with
potentially high payoffs, and governments
should work together with the private sector and NGOs to achieve this.14
Sending countries should take action to
reduce the likelihood that their migrants
become victims of exploitation, with a
focus on combating trafficking of girls and

women.15 Two possible areas for action are
to better regulate recruitment agencies to
ensure greater respect for workers’ rights
and to enter agreements that regulate
migrant flows and conditions with key destination countries, as the Philippines has
done. Sending countries should also help
migrants use remittances properly, invest
back home, and reintegrate upon return.
It is unclear whether an international
organization in which poor countries have
an equal seat at the table could help make
progress toward freer migration. Bhagwati
(2003) argued that a new World Migration
Organization—or even a stronger International Organization for Migration in the
U.N. system—might help increase the
developmental impact of migration by protecting migrants’ rights, providing a forum
to set rules on migration, and monitoring
and enforcing compliance. But migrantreceiving developed countries resist proposals to give up even some control over immigration policies, which they view as part of
the domestic policy agenda.

Freer and fairer trade
Inequities in the trade arena are well
known: rich countries protect their markets
with tariff and nontariff barriers on the
goods that poor countries produce more
advantageously (such as agricultural produce and textiles). They provide handsome
subsidies to their farmers, subsidize their
exports, and discourage value-added processing in developing countries. Reducing
such protection and subsidies would have a
beneficial impact on world trade, growth,
and poverty reduction.
Potential benefits from liberalization. Several recent studies have estimated the potential impact of various trade liberalization
measures, including those being considered
during the Doha Round of negotiations
under the WTO. Estimates vary, depending
on the reforms considered (various packages
of partial reforms up to full liberalization)
and on whether dynamic productivity gains
are taken into account. At the lower end of
the range, Hertel and Winters (forthcoming)
estimated that the measures being discussed
in the Doha Round would have a modest

Achieving greater global equity

impact on world prices, welfare gains, and
poverty, with the number of people living
below $2 a day declining by 9 million in
2015 over a baseline estimate of around 2
billion. According to this study, even full liberalization would not bring huge gains, as it
would help lift 80 million people out of $2 a
day poverty. At the higher end of the range,
Cline (2004) estimated that full trade liberalization would lift up to 440 million people
out of $2 a day poverty by 2015.
Whatever the size of the overall impact,
researchers agree that it would be heterogeneous across countries and regions. In both
partial and full reform scenarios, the gains
would accrue mostly to large countries
already significantly integrated in global
markets, such as Brazil, China, India, and
Indonesia. Parts of many Sub-Saharan countries and remote areas in Asia and elsewhere
are simply not connected to global markets,
and farmers eke out a living on subsistence
agriculture, far from roads, markets, technology, and information. Many countries are
unable to make full use of improved market
access because of significant supply-side and
institutional constraints. Detailed studies on
Cambodia, Ethiopia, Madagascar, and Zambia showed that the potential impact of the
trade reforms likely to be included in the
Doha Round would be small for such countries. Some countries would even lose in the
short run: Bangladesh and Mozambique, for
instance, would experience a decline in
incomes, as existing preferences are eroded
and the prices of key food imports rise. Similarly, Bourguignon, Levin, and Rosenblatt
(2004b) found that countries in the bottom
two deciles of the international distribution
of income would benefit more from a doubling of aid over current levels than from full
trade reform. The estimated impact of trade
liberalization varies greatly within countries
as well (chapter 9).
Specific liberalization measures would
also have differential impacts. Anderson
and Martin (2004) found that the removal
of OECD agricultural subsidies would hurt
net food-importing least developed countries, such as those in the Middle East and
North Africa, and countries that now enjoy
special preferences, such as the Philippines,
because of the consequent increase in

prices.16 But net food-producing countries,
and farmers within them, would benefit.
There is, indeed, some evidence that rising
agricultural world prices were partly responsible for the fact that rural incomes in
China grew more rapidly than urban
incomes in 2004.
The phasing out of the Multi-Fiber Agreement, which set quotas on exports of textiles
from developing countries, also has heterogeneous effects. Chinese textile exports have
made significant gains in markets not protected by tariffs—for instance, their share of
Australian and Japanese markets, where there
were no quota restrictions, is 70 percent.
Their share of the U.S. baby clothes segment,
where quotas were removed in 2002, jumped
from 11 to 55 percent in two years. Exports
from Cambodia and Nepal are reported to
have declined significantly. The impact of
these shifts on global income inequality is not
clear and it depends on the relative position
of garment workers and of those benefiting
from indirect effects in the global distribution. Changes in the existing tariff structure,
whereby producers from the poorest countries have duty-free access to markets in the
United States and Europe while others face a
16 percent tariff on average, would also have
an unclear impact on inequality.17 Conversely, renewed protectionism in developed
countries is likely to have negative effects.
Currently, no global assistance program
exists to compensate losers from trade liberalization. However, international assistance to help meet adjustment costs is an
important focus, along with addressing
supply-side constraints, of current efforts
by a range of donors, recipients, and international organizations, including the World
Bank, to increase aid for trade in the context
of the WTO Doha round.
Setting trade rules. Where do the rules that
govern trade come from, and what are the
chances of changes? Trade rules, including
the most egregiously inequitable, are part of
complex multilateral, regional, and bilateral
agreements. As mentioned in box 10.1, there
are significant concerns about the fairness of
WTO decision-making processes, and these
processes are partly responsible for the current stalemate in negotiations.

211

212

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

But the reality of WTO negotiations is
complex. In the WTO, each country has one
vote, and the practice of decision making by
consensus means that each country can
veto decisions (although the practice of
“single undertaking,” or voting on all matters together, in practice weakens veto
power). Countries choose to sign on to the
WTO following not only extensive external
negotiations but also domestic decisionmaking processes. So this is not a prima
facie example of unfair rule-setting. In
practice, however, poor countries find it difficult to follow negotiations, to understand
the implications of proposals to them, and
to develop alternative proposals—we saw in
chapter 3 that even their capacity to be present in Geneva is limited.
So, in the end, the rules may at times be
unfair not because the formal processes are
unfair but because of the underlying power
imbalance between rich countries with
strong commercial interests and poor countries with weak capacity.18 The balance is
even tilted against taxpayers and consumers

BOX 10.3

in rich countries, who often stand to lose
from the protection of vested commercial
interests. Consider, for example, cotton subsidies (see box 10.3) and international cartels.19 Poor countries are in an even weaker
position when negotiating bilaterally with
stronger trading partners than they are
when negotiating multilaterally. Paradoxically, in light of the intense antiglobalization
protests, multilateral negotiations in the
context of the WTO hold the greatest promise to reduce inequities that harm poor
countries. Although even an ambitious
Doha Round would bring limited benefits, it
remains an important goal to pursue
because failure would further undermine
confidence in multilateral negotiations.
The WTO has another advantage: it provides for a mechanism to adjudicate disputes. This is important, as seen earlier, to
ensure that international law is applied and
enforced. The WTO dispute settlement
mechanism provides a forum for poor countries to bring complaints and possibly win
them. Unfortunately, winning a case does

Cotton subsidies are huge—and tenacious

The International Cotton Advisory Committee
estimated that, in 2001/02, direct production
assistance by the eight countries that provided
subsidies (United States, China, the European
Union, and to a much smaller extent Turkey,
Egypt, Mexico, Brazil, Cote d’Ivoire, in that order)
was around $5.8 billion. Direct assistance to U.S.
cotton producers reached $3.3 billion, China’s support totaled $1.2 billion (although some question
this estimate), and the European Union’s support
was $979 million (for Greece and Spain) (International Cotton Advisory Committee 2003).The
main impact of U.S. and European subsidies is to
make cotton produced in the United States and
Europe competitive and depress world prices. It is
estimated that in 2001/02 prices would have been
71 percent higher without subsidies.
Subsidies benefit large rich farmers in the
United States and not-so-rich but relatively welloff farmers in Europe, and harm poor, small
farmers in Africa. Cotton is a crucial commodity
for a number of poor African and Central Asian
countries, contributing up to 40 percent of merchandise exports and 5 to 10 percent of GDP.
Most growers are smallholders, so the impact of
cotton prices on poverty is significant. A study
on Benin found that a 40 percent reduction in
farmgate cotton prices—equivalent to the price
decline from December 2000 to May 2002—

implied an 8 percent reduction in rural per
capita income in the short run and a 6 to 7 percent reduction in the long run, with the
incidence of poverty among cotton growers rising in the short run from 37 percent to 59 percent (Minot and Daniels 2002).
Estimates of the impact of subsidy removal
on cotton prices are in the range of 8 to 12 percent. Increases of this magnitude would not
hurt consumers—the price of raw cotton is a
small component of the price of textiles and
garments. Full subsidy removal and the consequent rise in prices would help African
countries, although the distribution of in-country benefits would depend on domestic reforms.
A recent study of the impact of subsidy removal
on three cotton-producing provinces of Zambia,
for instance, indicates that the direct impact of
the subsequent cotton price increase would be
small: about 1 percent of income on average.
Greater gains would require farmers switching
from subsistence crops to cotton, which in turn
requires complementary domestic reforms in
extension services and robust growth of
demand for cotton exports (Balat and Porto
forthcoming).
Benefits to African countries would increase
if they were to expand their clothing production
and exports.The U.S. African Growth and Oppor-

tunity Act provides an opening, but under
rather restrictive conditions: apparel from 14
African countries gets duty-free and quota-free
access to U.S. markets, but only if made from
U.S. fabric, yarn, and thread. So to take
advantage of this provision, countries need to
establish an effective input visa system to
ensure compliance with rules of origin (Baffes
2004), which seems exceedingly complex.
Within the WTO, poor cotton-producing
West African countries took the unusual step of
issuing a joint statement calling for full subsidy
removal and for cotton to be treated separately.
But the July 2004 Framework Agreement of the
Doha Development Agenda does not include
separate treatment of cotton, stating only that
cotton will receive “adequate priority” in agricultural negotiations. Subsidy removal is politically
unlikely.
In the current climate, a second-best option
would be to implement well-designed decoupled support, in which subsidies do not depend
on production and thus do not encourage overproduction and consequent “dumping,” as is the
case with the current schemes. Existing mechanisms would need to be reformed, because they
still depend on acreage and thus create incentives for overproduction. Less overproduction
may help lift prices a bit.

Achieving greater global equity

not automatically bring redress: the loser in
the case may not necessarily change its action.
The existing mechanisms to enforce decisions
rely on voluntary compensation of the loser
and, when this is not satisfactory, the possibility of retaliatory action (such as suspension of
tariff and other concessions) on the part of
the winner. Clearly, poor countries’ retaliation against powerful trading partners is
unlikely to provide much of an incentive for
rich countries to comply with unfavorable
rulings, because of their typically smaller volume of trade with a developed-country
defendant. Even so, developing countries
have in recent years brought forward, and
won, an increasing number of cases.
The fair and ethical trade movements.
Interestingly, some NGOs and civil society
organizations in both developed and developing countries have acted directly to establish more equitable trade relations. One
such example is “fair trade.” Fair trade initiatives, led by consumer groups, NGOs,
trade unions, and other civil society organizations, aim to control the supply chain
from production to market to improve the
well-being of developing-country producers by ensuring a stable price for their commodities, linking them more directly with
markets in rich countries, and strengthening their organizations. The approach is
working: sales of fair trade bananas, cocoa,
coffee, brown sugar, tea, and a few other
products have seen phenomenal growth in
recent years and now represent a significant
share of exports for some countries (for
instance, 11 percent of Ecuadorian bananas
and 20 percent of Ghanaian coffee are now
sold through fair trade).
The few impact studies that exist show
that fair trade initiatives have indeed made a
difference to producers, not only through the
premiums paid over world prices but also
thanks to the services and assistance provided to farmers by producer cooperatives
supported by fair trade organizations. When
inequities arise from unequal access to markets and lack of information, credit, and
risk-mitigation mechanisms, strengthening
producer associations can lead to more equitable outcomes, even without paying a premium, in the context of existing trade rules.20

The reach of fair trade initiatives, while
growing, remains small. In Switzerland,
where consumer support is strong, fair
trade bananas still represented only 25 percent of overall banana purchases and consumer spending on all fair trade products
was a mere $10 per person in 2002 (Swiss
agricultural subsidies amounted to roughly
$750 per person in the same year). Fair
trade coffee accounts for, at most, 3 percent
of world sales, and only about 20 percent of
the capacity of certified fair trade producers
is absorbed by the fair trade circuit.21
Another example of organizations acting directly to establish more equitable
trade relations is the growing number of
initiatives for corporate social responsibility and ethical trade. Companies that join
an ethical trade organization, such as the
Ethical Trading Initiative in the United
Kingdom or the Fair Labor Association in
the United States, pledge to respect a code
of conduct in return for favorable consideration by consumers and investors who
care about equitable development.22 Codes
of conduct generally cover fair labor
practices (usually those set out in ILO conventions), environmental standards, and
monitoring mechanisms—and apply not
just to a firm’s direct production facilities
but also to those of all its suppliers along
the supply chain.
Are consumers in rich countries willing
to pay a bit more to ensure that the goods
they buy are produced in fair and safe conditions? Proponents of codes of conduct
believe they are. Researchers found that
almost 90 percent of Americans said they
would pay at least an extra $1 on a $20 item
if they could be sure it had not been produced by exploited workers.23 Skeptics
point to the fact that prices dominate the
decisions of the major corporate buyers.
Codes of conduct inspired by ethical
considerations might have a positive impact
on equity, but are they applied? Impact
studies conducted by the Ethical Trading
Initiative found mixed evidence. Consumers
may not be willing to pay higher prices in
exchange for an uncertain (and often
unmonitored) positive impact. Consumer
pressure may thus not be enough (box 10.4).
So, these initiatives, while important, are no

213

214

BOX 10.4

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Will improved working conditions
in Cambodia’s textile industry survive
the end of the quota system?

As mentioned in chapter 9, the 1999 bilateral trade agreement between Cambodia
and the United States included a provision
whereby Cambodia’s clothing exports
would increase each year if labor standards
improved.The ILO was mandated to prepare
a report twice a year based on factory visits
and interviews with workers and unions
and to make it widely available.
The provision helped bring about a gradual improvement in working conditions in
clothing factories, but this progress is under
threat with the end of the quota system.The
government agreed to continue ILO inspections until 2008, but employers can no longer
count on increases in exports to the United
States if they uphold labor standards. Some
are aware that labor standards compliance is
their only real competitive advantage, but

there are reports of union leaders being
fired, lack of adherence to minimum and
overtime pay rules, and repressed demonstrations. Employers are allegedly using the
threat of tough competition from China to
cut salaries and benefits. But the employers
are being watched—an independent union
movement has grown in the industry and
ILO monitoring is increasingly sophisticated.
Monitors are now using hand-held computers to transmit findings from their factory
visits, allowing timely reporting. If working
conditions deteriorate, activists, researchers,
unions, and, most important of all, consumers
will know.Whether their pressure will be
enough to ensure adherence to labor standards is an open question.
Sources: International Confederation of Free
Trade Unions (2005), Washington Post (2004).

substitute for more equitable trade rules
under the WTO and other arrangements.

Intellectual property rights
and the global market for ideas
Protection of intellectual property rights
(IPR) is another area in which market failure
and power structures shape unequal processes and outcomes; the interests of a few
powerful actors impose costs on the general
public, particularly the poor. The requirement set forth in the Trade-Related Aspects of
Intellectual Property Rights agreement
(TRIPS)24—that all member countries offer
20-year patent protection—is perceived by
many to be grossly inequitable. Because
patent protection was adopted in OECD
countries before the 1990s, the main result of
this requirement is to strengthen patent protection in poor countries that become WTO
members. Countries adopting patent protection today are doing so at levels of GDP
between $500 and $8,000 per capita, while
OECD countries did so when their GDP per
capita was around $20,000 in 1995 prices.25
Patents stem from a legitimate desire to
provide incentives for the generation of
knowledge and cover the cost of developing
new knowledge. A drug or other patented
innovation cannot be copied while a patent
is in force, so developers enjoy a monopoly

position and can charge higher prices.
Extending patent protection to developing
countries can thus increase total profits by
allowing companies to earn them in poor
countries—and changes the distribution of
R&D financing, with a greater share borne
by poorer countries. But protection of IPR
must be balanced by the concern that it
restricts access to new technologies. Patents
restrict access to innovations by making
them more expensive and more difficult to
copy. There is great concern in developing
countries on the availability of various
innovations, including patented seeds and
drugs. Antiretroviral drugs to fight AIDS
are a case in point (box 10.5).
We look in more detail at pharmaceutical
patents as an illustration of the broader
issues. Chaudhuri, Goldberg, and Jia (2004)
estimate that the gains to the Indian economy from not following international patent
protection standards were around $450 million, of which $400 million were a gain to
consumers and the rest profits of domestic
producers. Profit losses to foreign producers
were only around $53 million a year. This
study illustrates the important point that the
profits pharmaceutical companies could gain
in poor countries are not very large. Lanjouw
and Jack (2004) estimate that extending
patent protection to developing countries to
20 years would be equivalent, for firm profits, to extending patents in developed countries by two weeks.
A solution exists that would lead to more
equitable provision without undermining
efficiency: wherever rich country markets
already support the cost of research, poor
countries could be allowed to produce or
import cheaper generic substitutes, at no
significant cost to either rich countries or
the firms that carry out research (see focus 7
on drug access at the end of this chapter).
As with all international law, the existing
IPR protection rules are the result of complex negotiations. TRIPS—which was basically written by industry lawyers26—is part
of the agreement establishing the WTO, a
multifaceted deal that included the MultiFiber Agreement and other provisions that
developing countries deemed beneficial to
them. Many bilateral free trade agreements
(such as recent agreements between the

Achieving greater global equity

BOX 10.5

215

Expanding access to antiretroviral drugs in South Africa

In response to the rising AIDS crisis, the government of South Africa in 1997 amended the Medicines and Related Substances Control Act of
1965 in an attempt to ensure the supply of more
affordable drugs to all South Africans.The
amendment encouraged pharmacists to substitute costly patented drugs with cheaper generic
equivalents, allowed for the importation of
cheaper drugs available on the market
elsewhere (parallel imports), and introduced a
compulsory licensing system allowing competitors to produce patented drugs.
The Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association and 39 drug companies challenged the
government’s legislation in the Pretoria High
Court on several grounds, including that it
violated South Africa’s obligations under
TRIPS. The Treatment Action Campaign (TAC)
and a labor union, COSATU, supported the government defense in the case, asserting that the
legislation was valid in that it constituted the
government’s positive duty to fulfill the right
to health. Arguably as a result of public pressure and attention, the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association and the drug companies
withdrew their case. An indirect result was to
bring down the price of antiretroviral medicine

from about 4,000 rand a month to 1,000 rand a
month.
Other legal cases (not involving TRIPS)
helped expand access to antiretroviral drugs. In
2002, a group of complainants, including TAC,
brought a case against GlaxoSmithKline and
Boehringer Ingelheim at the South African Competition Commission. In its October 2004 ruling,
the commission found that the two firms had
engaged in excessive pricing of patented antiretrovirals and refused to allow generic production of the drugs in return for royalty payments,
actions that the commission ruled were in violation of the South Africa Competition Act.To
keep the case from moving to a higher tribunal,
the firms came to a settlement agreement that
included licensing generic production.
TAC also attempted to compel the national
and provincial governments to provide
antiretroviral drugs to all pregnant women to
prevent the transmission of HIV from mothers to
their children; the impact of the existing government policy was to make the drug Nevirapine
unavailable in public health facilities other than
the 10 or so pilot sites.The government
appealed to the Constitutional Court after TAC
secured a successful decision.

United States and Chile, Jordan, Morocco,
Singapore, Vietnam, and others) include
even stronger IPR protection rules than
TRIPS, such as granting patent extensions
on pharmaceuticals and specific types of
protection on clinical trial data submitted
to obtain marketing approval. Signatories
to these agreements agreed on these rules
generally in exchange for preferential access
to U.S. markets for their products.
But it is hard to argue that the parties to
these various bilateral and multilateral
agreements were on a level playing field.
Poor countries are in a weaker bargaining
position overall. For example, the preferential access they gain through bilateral trade
agreements is eroded whenever the United
States reduces remaining tariffs and quotas
in bilateral or multilateral negotiations,
while IPR protection does not weaken over
time.27 Moreover, the issues involved in IPR
protection are complex and require skills
and capacity that rich countries can better
afford—often with input from pharmaceutical firms. Some capacity-building efforts
for developing countries are under way, but

The Constitutional Court declared that the
South African Constitution required the South
African government to devise and implement
within its available resources a comprehensive
and coordinated program to realize
progressively the rights of pregnant women and
their newborn children to have access to health
services to combat mother-to-child transmission
of HIV.The Court found the state policy of
restricting the availability of antiretroviral drugs
and related services for preventing mother-tochild transmission of HIV to a few pilot test sites
unreasonable, and ordered the government to
rectify the situation by taking reasonable steps
to facilitate the availability and use of antiretroviral drugs in all public health facilities.
In 1999, TAC had also been part of a successful constitutional challenge relating to discrimination of South African Airways cabin
attendants with HIV.The judgment reinforced
the right to equality for people with HIV.These
legal challenges had important indirect impacts,
setting groundbreaking precedents, increasing
judicial awareness of human rights obligations,
and heightening public awareness of rights.
Sources: Decker and others (2005), South Africa
Competition Commission (2003).

at least some of the agencies responsible
(such as WIPO and developed-country
patent offices) are perceived as biased.
Inequitable as TRIPS may be, it still provides
an internationally agreed standard subject
to intense scrutiny and study, which does
make it harder for rich countries to get more
favorable deals in bilateral agreements.
An additional advantage of negotiating
sessions under the WTO is that they provide focal events for mobilizing public
opinion. An example of how positive results
can be achieved within the WTO process is
the Declaration on the TRIPS Agreement
and Public Health adopted at Doha in 2001,
which affirms the primacy of public health
concerns over IPR protection. Three subsequent U.S. bilateral agreements include side
letters on public health that affirm the signatories’ understanding that IPR protection
does not affect their ability to “protect public health by promoting medicines for all.”28
When negotiations are shifted away from
the spotlight, as drug companies managed
to do with drug licensing under the July
2004 Doha Development Agenda Frame-

216

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

work Agreement, monitoring progress and
campaigning become more difficult. So
multilateral negotiations within the WTO,
which are held under the spotlight, probably hold the most promise in terms of
adopting more equitable rules.

Financial market liberalization
Capital flows to developing countries have
grown tremendously in the 1990s, bringing
both advantages and challenges. Short-term
capital flows are at times accused of contributing to financial instability while not
enhancing growth in countries with immature financial systems. Most countries that
received high volumes of short-term capital
inflows in the 1990s—Argentina, Brazil,
Indonesia, Korea, Mexico, Russia, Thailand,
and Turkey—have been hit by financial
crises, triggered or deepened by the flight of
foreign short-term capital.
Domestic factors play a key role in financial instability, but global rules also play a
role. For instance, debt workout mechanisms follow informal processes; the IMF’s
proposal for a Sovereign Debt Workout
Mechanism was not adopted. The result is
that deals tend to benefit international
lenders at the expense of domestic investors
and taxpayers.29
In contrast to short-term capital flows,
foreign direct investment (FDI) is generally
regarded as having a positive impact on
receiving countries, but it goes to only a few
countries. In 2002, 84 percent of FDI to
developing counties went to 12 mostly
middle-income countries (including China
and India), with the other 150-odd developing countries receiving almost nothing.
Only 5.3 percent of FDI went to Sub-Saharan
Africa.30 Domestic factors play a key role
also in determining the location of FDI, but
again global rules contribute to inequitable
outcomes. The Basel II Capital Accord, that
sets capital adequacy standards for banks,
may overestimate the risk of bank lending to
developing countries (in part because it
ignores the benefits of diversifying portfolios across countries), thus raising the cost
and reducing access to external capital, in
addition to increasing the procyclicality of
loans and possibly contributing to increased
volatility.31 Emerging global standards—

including those assessed under the Reports
on the Observance of Standards and Codes
(ROSC), international accounting standards, and the Core 25 Principles for Banking Supervision—are also costly for developing countries and may not be appropriate
to their level of development.
Rules-setting in global financial markets.
Some of the key rules governing global
financial markets are developed by institutions to which developing countries do not
belong. The Financial Stability Forum,
established in 1999 to promote global
financial stability, brings together senior
representatives of central banks, supervisory authorities and treasury departments
of nine OECD countries, international
financial institutions, international regulatory and supervisory groupings, committees of central bank experts, and the
European Central Bank. The only emerging
market economies that are members are
Hong Kong (China) and Singapore.
The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, which developed the Basel II Capital
Accord, comprises representatives of the
central banks and banking supervision
authorities of Belgium, Canada, France,
Germany, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, the
Netherlands, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland,
the United Kingdom, and the United States.
Its main interlocutor in the development of
the Accord was the Institute for International Finance, a Washington-based consultative group of major international banks.
Neither the Financial Stability Forum nor
the Basel Committee can legitimately represent the interests of developing countries.32
Various other standards, often developed by
semiprivate agencies (such as the International Accounting Standards Board), are
based on practices in the United States and
European Union. Greater participation and
voice in rule-setting bodies would help
ensure that outcomes are more favorable to
developing countries.

Rectifying past and present inequities
in the use of natural resources
The use of natural resources is another major
arena in which market failures and unequal
power conjure to create major inequities.

Achieving greater global equity

This is greatly skewed in favor of developed countries and impacts are grossly
inequitable. Without major technological
innovations several key resources, such as
oil, could be exhausted before the world’s
poor get a chance to attain standards of
living comparable to those of today’s
developed-country citizens. Moreover,
global warming threatens to destroy the
livelihoods of people living in low-lying
coastal areas, small islands, and semiarid
regions. Yet the people potentially affected
by these changes (tomorrow’s citizens and
many of today’s poor) have virtually no
voice in setting rules.
The international community has taken
some steps to manage natural resources in a
more equitable way. Some international
legal instruments, such as the Convention
on the Law of the Sea of 1982, reflect the
concept of distributive justice discussed
earlier by taking an approach whereby the
seabed and ocean floor, beyond national
jurisdiction, are classified as global commons and subject to a system of equitable
sharing of the economic benefits derived
from activities in these areas.
Key steps toward redressing inequities
in the use of global resources are the 1992
U.N. Framework Convention on Climate
Change and the 1997 Kyoto Protocol. The
protocol is structured to reflect the principle of “common but differentiated
responsibilities” between developed and
developing countries. It recognizes that
industrial nations have emitted the majority of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere,
causing the majority of the harm, and
places greater demands on them. It sets
binding quantified commitments for
industrial countries to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions by 2008–12, with the
understanding that the agreement would
include emission reduction efforts by
developing nations some time after 2012.
One important aspect of the Kyoto Protocol is the unique set of provisions that
allow industrial nations to meet their commitments through actions not only within
their borders but also outside. One of these
provisions, the Clean Development Mechanism, helps address the perceived inequality
of obligations and the costs of compliance.

It allows industrial countries to purchase
emission reduction “credits” generated
from activities that reduce greenhouse gas
emissions in developing countries and to
apply these credits against their obligations
under the Protocol. It thus assists industrial
countries in meeting their commitments
under the Kyoto Protocol more cost effectively and promotes sustainable development in developing countries, through
supporting greater investments in cleaner,
more efficient technologies as well as
forestry projects.
Fairness in processes is also an issue. In
negotiating the Kyoto Protocol, as in most
global treaty negotiations, industrial nations
had greater power at the negotiating table.
An imbalance of technical expertise, a lack of
adequate public support for the issues, and
problems forming coalitions because of
diverse interests have attenuated the bargaining power for many developing countries.
The United States, the single largest emitter of greenhouse gases, has announced that
it is not becoming a party to the Kyoto Protocol, significantly reducing the protocol’s
efficacy. With the protocol having come into
effect in February 2005, the United States
will be a mere observer at the Meetings of the
Parties to the Kyoto Protocol, but because of
the size of its emissions, the other parties will
not want to ignore U.S. concerns.33
Equitable access to information is an
important ingredient for more equitable
use of global resources. The UN/ECE
Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision-making and
Access to Justice in Environmental Matters
(Aarhus Convention) deals with public participation in environmental management
and access to information on environmental issues. The Convention, adopted in 1998
and in force among 35 parties since 2001,
grants citizens the right to impose obligations on public authorities and parties to
international environmental conventions,
including information disclosure, access to
information, public participation in environmental decision making, and access to
justice. A Convention Compliance Committee has been established, to which citizens and NGOs can bring allegations of
noncompliance.

217

218

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Providing development assistance
to help build endowments
In shaping global inequities, rules and
processes interact with unequal endowments. Even if all the reforms suggested in
the previous sections were implemented,
many poor countries would still not be able
to participate in global markets because of
their limited endowments of skills, capital,
infrastructure, knowledge, and ideas. Action
to build endowments is primarily domestic,
through private and public investments in
infrastructure and other areas. Can domestic action be supported by aid?

Better development assistance
From an equity perspective, the main roles
of aid are to help countries build the
endowments of those who are resourcepoor, generally through no fault of their
own, and avoid extreme deprivation (which
justifies to some extent the use of aid to
support current consumption). The focus
on building endowments implies that both
the level of aid and its effectiveness matter.
Enhancing aid effectiveness. If the goal is to
equalize opportunities for the poor, aid
effectiveness is crucial. Aid that sustains
corruption or marginal projects, or is used
to increase the resources at the disposal of
the rich, does not help. Aid effectiveness
hinges crucially on aid delivery modalities
and on the fairness and transparency of
domestic political processes. Birdsall (2004)
cites seven “deadly sins”: impatience with
institution building, failure to exit, failure
to evaluate, pretending that participation
equals ownership, failure to collaborate,
stingy and unreliable financing, and underfunding of regional and global programs—
in addition to tying aid to the use of consultants and firms from the donor country
and allocating it according to political priorities. Existing aid planning and delivery
practices are rooted in political and incentive constraints that the donors face, so
change is difficult and slow. But some current directions are promising: emphasizing
results (including through tracking indicators of intermediate actions and final outcomes related to the MDGs), moving away
from ex ante conditionality, and progres-

sively shifting design and management
from donors to countries. The United Kingdom’s Commission for Africa (2005) recommended a major shift away from ex ante
conditionality toward a new partnership in
which African countries continue to work
to improve governance and accountability,
and donors deliver more, cheaper, more
predictable aid. High levels of aid reduce
the need for domestic tax efforts, which
have historically helped strengthen overall
accountability of governments and citizen
demand for quality services, so particular
attention should be paid to revenue collection.34 The preparation of poverty
reduction strategies is a key, if imperfect,
instrument to shift to country-led processes
with greater participation and monitoring
of how public resources are spent.
Fragile states pose a special challenge.
Stabilization and peacekeeping need to be
complemented with efforts to build state
institutions and legitimacy. The sequencing
of interventions matters—there is some evidence that ring-fenced, long-term investment in human capital development and
working with NGOs and the private sector
can be useful first steps. Technical assistance
appears more effective after reforms take off
and can help lay the basis for capital investment and service delivery interventions.35
When domestic political processes are
manifestly inequitable and corrupt, donors
can try to support moves toward a more equitable revenue collection and allocation; decentralization to lower levels of government,
which can challenge central control; and the
strengthening of community-based organizations, the media, and domestic entrepreneurship, which can help create a middle class with
a voice and a stake in better governance.
Improving the allocation of aid. The distribution of aid matters as well. A lively debate
has taken place in recent years on aid allocation criteria. Burnside and Dollar (2000) and
Collier and Dollar (2001, 2002) found that
aid was more effective in reducing poverty if
it was allocated to countries that followed
good policies and had good institutions. They
calculated that reallocating actual aid provided in 1996 across countries to maximize
poverty reduction according to their formula

Achieving greater global equity

would have led to directing aid to roughly 20
instead of the 60 countries considered, and
lifted twice as many people out of poverty.36
Their findings have been questioned by
Hansen and Tarp (2001) and others, who
argued that their analysis does not take
country conditions into account and is not
robust to different specifications. If aid effectiveness varies across countries not because
of policies but as the result of different country circumstances, such as climate, a different
aid allocation rule would maximize the
poverty impact of foreign aid.37 Cogneau
and Naudet (2004) suggested an alternative
rule for aid allocation and showed that gains
in poverty reduction similar to those found
by Collier and Dollar could be obtained if aid
was directed to countries that have greater
structural disadvantages (geographic, historical, or economic, as discussed in chapter 3).
The resulting allocation would spread the
risk of poverty more evenly across the
world’s population, while reducing global
poverty almost as much as the allocation
proposed by Collier and Dollar.
In sum, an equity perspective suggests
that an approach that does not take a country’s circumstances into account is likely to
ignore important information about need.
But an approach that ignores aid effectiveness does not lead to expanded opportunities. To contribute toward an equalization of
opportunities across the world’s individuals,
aid should be targeted where the probability
is greatest that it effectively reaches those
with the most limited opportunities—the
poorest of the poor, in opportunity terms.
That clearly depends on the poverty and
deprivation levels in each country and on its
government’s ability and political commitment to deliver the aid where and how it is
intended. But more research is needed to
fully understand the causal mechanisms.
In practice, recent research showed that
many donors indeed seem to rely on both
good policies and poor initial conditions. A
study of 40 donor agencies by Dollar and
Levin (2004) found that aid was positively
correlated with a measure of good policies
and with per capita GDP, and the agencies
that focused the most on good policies also
directed their aid to poor countries. However,
some fragile states (“aid orphans”) receive less

aid than predicted by their policy and institutional strength, mostly because of disproportionately low flows from bilateral donors,
while others (“aid darlings”) received more.38
Increasing aid levels. Conditional on effectiveness and distribution, levels of aid do
matter. Aid levels fell between 1990 and 2001
both as a share of rich countries’ gross
national income (GNI) and in nominal
terms. Calls for more aid to help countries
achieve the MDGs have resonated loudly in
recent international gatherings. At the 2002
International Conference on Financing for
Development in Monterrey, rich countries
committed to increasing their aid flows significantly. Net aid flows indeed increased significantly in 2002–04 in nominal and real
terms, reaching $78 billion.39 Three major
factors were behind these increases: continuing growth in bilateral grants (but with a
large share going to technical cooperation,
debt forgiveness, emergency and disaster
relief, and administrative costs); the provision
of reconstruction aid to Afghanistan and Iraq
by the United States (in 2004, $0.9 billion to
Afghanistan and $2.9 billion to Iraq); and the
depreciation of the U.S. dollar. While there
was a small increase in new development
assistance to Sub-Saharan Africa in 2003,
even after accounting for debt relief and
emergency assistance, Highly Indebted Poor
Countries (HIPC) received less in real terms
in 2004 than the year before. On the positive
side, the International Development Association, the soft-lending arm of the World Bank,
recently received a replenishment for 2006–8,
which is at least 25 percent higher than the
previous one and represents the largest funding increase in two decades.
These recent increases notwithstanding,
aid flows remain small not just in relation to
need but also in comparison to domestic
human development and safety net programs
that aim to equalize opportunities and ensure
against deprivation. Such programs generally
account for more than 10 percent of GDP in
donor countries. Official development assistance (ODA), by contrast, was only 0.25 percent of donor countries’ GNI in 2003. Only
Denmark, Luxembourg, the Netherlands,
Norway, and Sweden meet the U.N. target of
providing ODA equal to or greater than 0.7

219

220

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Table 10.1 ODA as a share of GNI, 2002, 2003, and simulation for 2006
Net ODA 2003
($ millions)

Country
Austria

Net ODA 2004
($ millions)

ODA as %
of GNI
2003

ODA as %
of GNI
2004

ODA as % of GNI
Simulation
2006

505

691

0.20

0.24

0.33

Belgium

1,853

1,452

0.60

0.41

0.64

Denmark

1,748

2,025

0.84

0.84

0.83

Finland

558

655

0.35

0.35

0.41

France

7,253

8,475

0.41

0.42

0.47

Germany

0.33

6,784

7,497

0.28

0.28

Greece

362

464

0.21

0.23

0.33

Ireland

504

586

0.39

0.39

0.61

Italy

2,433

2,484

0.17

0.15

0.33

Luxembourg

194

241

0.81

0.85

0.87

Netherlands

3,981

4,235

0.80

0.74

0.80

320

1,028

0.22

0.63

0.33

Spain

1,961

2,547

0.23

0.26

0.33

Sweden

2,400

2,704

0.79

0.77

1.00

Portugal

United Kingdom

6,282

7,836

0.34

0.36

0.42

37,139

42,920

0.35

0.36

0.44

Australia

1,219

1,465

0.25

0.25

0.26

Canada

2,031

2,537

0.24

0.26

0.27

Japan

8,880

8,859

0.20

0.19

0.22

EU members, total

New Zealand
Norway
Switzerland

165

210

0.23

0.23

0.26

2,042

2,200

0.92

0.87

1.00

1,299

1,379

0.39

0.37

0.38

United States

16,254

18,999

0.15

0.16

0.19

DAC members, total

69,029

78,569

0.25

0.25

0.30

Source: OECD-DAC (2004).
Note: DAC = Development Assistance Committee; EU = European Union; GNI = gross national income; ODA = official development
assistance.

Figure 10.2 More subsidies than aid
Aid and agricultural subsidies
relative to GDP in OECD-DAC countries
Percent of GDP, 2002
1.6
Agricultural
subsidies
Aid

1.2

0.8

0.4

0
Japan

European
Union

United
States

Sources: OECD-DAC (2004) and OECD (2003).

All
OECD-DAC
countries

percent of GNI. Many countries are not on
track to meet their Monterrey commitments
(table 10.1).
Aid also is low in comparison with other
uses of public resources. Agricultural subsidies, for instance, were almost five times
larger than aid in 2002. Japan, the European
Union, and the United States had subsidies
equal to 1.4, 1.3, and 0.9 percent of GDP and
aid of 0.23, 0.35, and 0.13 percent respectively
(figure 10.2). Rich countries should deliver
on their Monterrey commitments; this alone
would add around $18 billion to development assistance by 2006. To make further
progress toward the 0.7 percent goal, countries could establish intermediate targets for
2010. But again, higher aid that is poorly
spent, supports corrupt regimes, or undermines domestic accountability can hinder,
rather than support, greater equity.

Achieving greater global equity

Additional debt relief. Aid should not be
undermined by debt payments. Multilateral
debt, the largest share of debt for the HIPC,
is the result of loans received in the 1980s,
and new loans, while generally on more
concessional terms, continue to add to the
debt burden. Supporters of debt relief argue
that debt payments divert scarce resources
from health and education and other propoor spending.
There has been progress in the last decade.
In 1995, debt relief was not on the agenda of
international organizations, partly because of
financing issues and partly because of concerns about creating a moral hazard (if debts
are forgiven, governments of borrowing countries may think they are really not expected to
repay). Over the following five years, thanks to
a strong grassroots mobilization in rich countries, effective research on the impact of debt
and committed leadership in some rich countries and the World Bank, the HIPC Initiative
was launched and then expanded. As of March
2005, 27 countries had received debt relief
expected to amount to about $54 billion over
time, up from $34.5 billion at the end of 2000.
The ratio of debt service to exports for HIPC
has declined roughly by half, to 15 percent.
Poverty-reducing expenditures in the 27 countries that receive HIPC assistance are estimated
to have increased from 6.4 percent of GDP in
1999 to 7.9 percent of GDP in 2003.
Even so, many countries continue to bear
an unsustainable debt burden, and more
needs to be done. The agreements reached in
October 2004 to extend the HIPC Initiative
and in June 2005 to grant 100 percent debt
cancellation of the debt owed to the African
Development Bank, IMF, and World Bank to
18 countries are important steps.40 This and
any further debt relief should truly be additional rather than substitute fresh aid. Further debt relief should also be accompanied
by careful consideration of debt sustainability
issues, including increasing grants for very
low-income countries, to avoid the buildup
of unsustainable debt in the future.
Innovative mechanisms to fund development
assistance. Several innovative mechanisms
to expand development assistance are under
discussion, including the International
Financing Facility (IFF), global taxes, and vol-

untary contributions. The IFF would make
future aid available for immediate use (frontload aid) and possibly reduce volatility. It is
an option for some donors, such as France
and the United Kingdom, given their
accounting and legislative frameworks, but
not for others, who would not be able to
make long-term commitments or consider
them off-budget. Even when feasible, the IFF
would move aid off-budget in the short term,
but it would expand financing for development only if it increased overall aid levels
rather than simply shift future aid forward.
Proposals involving global tax instruments
have also been advanced, including a “Tobin”
tax on short-term capital movements; taxes
related to pollution, such as a global carbon
tax, an international aviation fuel tax, and a
maritime pollution tax; taxes on arms sales;
and surcharges on multinational profits and
on value-added or income taxes. These proposals would need to be assessed on the basis
of the revenues they could generate, their efficiency, collectability, feasibility, and not least
their impact on equity.
Voluntary contributions from individuals,
corporations, private foundations, and NGOs—
another source of development assistance
alongside public aid—are increasing. But
effectiveness is an issue for private assistance
too. As seen for the December 2004 Asian
tsunami, private charity can be mobilized
faster than public resources. But private contributions are influenced by press coverage
more than actual need; contributors were
much less generous for the Iranian earthquake that hit in February 2005, which was
virtually ignored in the news. Moreover, lack
of coordination, fragmentation, and infrastructure bottlenecks—such as bad roads and
a lack of electricity and telecommunications,
which cannot generally be alleviated through
private charity—can hinder its effectiveness.
Moreover, alignment with recipient country
strategies needs to be ensured.

Transitions to greater equity
Equity-enhancing changes in global policies
and institutions come about through action by
governments and coalitions of governments—
often within international fora, informed
leadership and grassroots mobilization,
analysis and policy research to inform alter-

221

222

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

natives, and networks that disseminate those
alternatives. This section looks at some examples illustrating the change processes; it does
not attempt to be comprehensive or to assess
the weight of individual factors.
Examples include developed-country governments that take initiative unilaterally—
such as the countries that have already
reached the target of 0.7 percent of GNI for
developing assistance or that cancelled a large
portion of the debts owed to them by the
poorest countries—as well as governments
acting jointly to form coalitions for change.
The latter are becoming more frequent in
trade negotiations, in which a group of large
developing countries (including Brazil, China,
and India) is spearheading proposals for
greater trade liberalization.
A way to spur equity-enhancing policy
changes by developed countries is to accompany calls for change with tracking mechanisms. The eighth MDG relates to greater
provision of aid and debt relief and more
equitable trade policies. Progress toward this
goal has been reviewed in September 2005 as
part of the Millennium Summit+5.
Another exercise to monitor rich country policies, conducted by the Center for
Global Development and Foreign Policy
magazine, is the Commitment to Development Index. The index examines more indicators than the eighth MDG, including
environment, security, investment, and
technology (Center for Global Development 2004). While there are questions
about the methodology, particularly on
aggregating scores in various areas, the
index exposes how some countries do better
in some areas than in others—Norway, for
instance, does well on aid but poorly on
trade; Switzerland scores poorly on trade
but does better on environment; the United
States scores poorly on environment but
has, with Canada, the most favorable
migration policies—and how all countries
have considerable opportunities to improve
their policies.
Citizen mobilization. Citizen mobilization,
combining both grassroots and middle-class
interest groups across countries, has grown in
recent years. In some cases, an international
social movement, network, or alliance has

emerged to try to influence the global agenda.
An example is the launching of the Enhanced
HIPC Initiative in 2000. The original HIPC
Initiative benefited some countries, but
progress was slow and there were several
problems. By 1999 these were largely recognized, but an expanded initiative needed to
garner support in creditor countries and in
the World Bank and IMF governing committees, because it required additional funding.
The Jubilee 2000 campaign, which combined
awareness of the pernicious effects of excessive debt with a call to debt forgiveness
inspired by the Christian Jubilee idea, mobilized hundreds of thousands of people in
countries such as Germany, Italy, the United
States, and United Kingdom. The governments of these countries took notice and
finally agreed to various actions, expanding
the HIPC Initiative and canceling bilateral
debt. Other examples of pressure by civil
society organizations leading to changes in
rules are the campaigns to reform World
Bank policies on indigenous peoples, resettlement, and other safeguards.
In a second set of cases, international
rules already exist on paper, and social
movements bring them into effect by making them visible and insisting that they be
implemented. In many cases, this process
happens at the country level, but it involves
an interaction with global rule and policy
changes. The ethical trade initiatives discussed earlier are citizen mobilizations to
enforce global and local laws. Similarly,
efforts by indigenous movements, NGOs, and
other activists ensured that ILO Covenant
169 on indigenous peoples was recognized
as having legal weight (in practice) in various countries. Experience shows that citizen
mobilization is most effective when it
builds broad-based coalitions for change
across countries and groups.
But citizen mobilization also poses risks.
Civil society movements may partly counter
unequal formal channels, but they are
highly imperfect mechanisms of aggregating voice, and their accountability is often
unclear. In recent years, there have been
instances of NGO campaigns that have led
to perverse outcomes, such as donors withdrawing from infrastructure and resettlement projects only to see governments

Achieving greater global equity

move ahead anyway without international
monitoring of social and environmental
consequences.
Analysis and research. Socioeconomic analysis and policy research also contribute to
making particular domains of inequity
objects of public debate and action. Global
analysis of gender discrimination and missing girls and women (box 2.9) has fostered
public action to redress gender inequities. Ex
ante analysis and policy research are also vital
ingredients for informing the design of policy
proposals. A vast body of recent research,
including serious impact evaluations, has
focused on efficient and effective ways to
achieve the MDGs. The more research is conducted by and with developing-country
researchers, the more likely it is that its results
will inform policymaking.
Some of these key elements have been
missing in failed attempts at change. Analysis
and policy research is carried out and technical solutions are proposed; the political will to
implement them is missing, however, because
political leaders do not think the issue is
important or coalitions are not formed that
ensure sufficient support. In other cases,
grassroots mobilization is strong, but it lacks
well-developed, implementable proposals for
reform. Indeed, some NGO campaigns have
led to perverse outcomes, as when international organizations have withdrawn support
for projects under international criticism
only to see governments proceed without
international monitoring of social and environmental safeguards.
International organizations. International
financial institutions can help bring about
global equity-enhancing action through
setting agendas and providing a focal point
for international negotiations. Their dispute settlement and enforcement mechanisms help ensure that their policies are
implemented. But the governance structures of the World Bank and IMF have not
evolved in line with the increased size and
role of emerging market, developing, and

transition countries in the world economy.
Moreover, small and low-income countries
have a limited role in their decision-making
processes. Developed-country governments
have a majority of the votes on the boards
of the IMF and World Bank, and two executive directors represent more than 40
African countries.
Several options to enhance voice in the
IMF and World Bank have been explored,
but limited progress has been made. In
April 2005, the ministers of the intergovernmental Group of Twenty-Four urged
that a new quota formula be developed
(voting rights depend on quotas), which
would give greater weight to measures of
gross domestic product measured in purchasing power parity terms. They also suggested that, in order to strengthen the voice
of small and low-income countries, basic
votes should be increased to restore their
original share of total voting power.41 Making progress on enhancing the voice and
participation of developing countries in the
decision-making processes of the World
Bank and IMF is of fundamental importance to increase the legitimacy of international financial institutions and enhance
their effectiveness in fostering greater global
equity. The 13th General Review of IMF
Quotas provides an important opportunity
to make progress on issues of quotas, voice,
and participation.

Summary
In sum, global actions can play a key role in
redressing inequitable rules and helping
equalize endowments. The rules that govern
markets for labor, goods, ideas, capital, and
the use of natural resources need to become
more equitable. Domestic action to build
the endowments of the poor can be supported through aid, but not if aid is poorly
spent, supports corrupt regimes, or undermines domestic accountability. Changes
will require, above all, greater accountability at the global level, with greater representation of poor people’s interests in
rule-setting bodies.

223

focus 7 on

drug access

Balancing access to medicines for the world’s poor with incentives for
pharmaceutical innovation
What’s the best way to expand access to drugs in developing countries, while preserving incentives for pharmaceutical
research? A possible solution entails recognizing that medicine markets are far from uniform and that both the nature of
diseases and the income of countries matter for access and incentives.

S

ome diseases, such as malaria, mainly
affect poor countries, but they have
received little R&D investment, and
few treatments are available. Much attention has been devoted in recent years to creating the right incentives and structuring
financing to increase R&D investment in
drugs for diseases that affect poor countries, for which commercial potential does
not provide enough stimulus.1 Policy initiatives include the following:
•

Increasing research through public sector institutions—for example, programs
coordinated by the U.S. National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases,
the World Health Organization’s Special
Programme for Research and Training
in Tropical Diseases, and the nonprofit
Drugs for Neglected Diseases Initiative
founded by Medécins Sans Frontiérès.

•

Establishing public-private partnerships,
such as the Medicines for Malaria Venture and the Malaria Vaccine Initiative,
the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative, and the Global Alliance for Tuberculosis Drug Development.

•

Designing a purchase commitment for
new vaccines (“AdvancedMarkets”). Sponsored by the Bill and Melinda Gates
Foundation, the groundwork has been
laid to create markets by having donors
commit, in advance, to paying part of
the cost at a guaranteed price for a new,
as yet undiscovered, vaccine. This would
give firms an incentive to invest in this
area.2 (A similar initiative has been proposed for agricultural research relevant
to developing countries.3)

•

Developing an open-source approach to
early-stage tropical diseases research.
The idea is to harness the expertise and
resources of academic scientists, students, public sector researchers, and
others who may be happy to spend some
of their time doing research on tropical
diseases either for altruism or scientific

curiosity (similar to what happens with
open-source software). Leads that
emerge could then feed into any of the
other schemes for the next stages of
development and clinical testing.4
Providing patent protection in poor
countries for drugs primarily for their markets would not by itself provide sufficient
incentives, because their purchasing power
is very low. But, even a small increase in
market-based research incentives could be a
useful part of a larger strategy to address
the treatment of diseases specific to the
developing world.
Other diseases have global incidence
and worldwide markets, and they are an
important cause of death and disability
among the poor. In the high-mortality
regions of the world, cardiovascular disease
is estimated to cause a greater share of the
total disease burden than malaria and other
tropical diseases combined.5
Although many people in poor countries suffer from global diseases, they are an
insignificant part of the commercial market. Estimates suggest that currently almost
half of the world’s people live in countries
that together represent less than 2 percent
of global spending on drugs for cardiovascular disease.6 Because of the great asymmetries in markets, many of the poor could
be allowed generic access to important
classes of drugs without damaging research
incentives. The foreign filing license approach
described below is a feasible way to attain
this outcome.

global drug sales in each disease class (see
figure below).
Along the horizontal axis of the figure are
disease classes, listed with those concentrated
in poor countries toward the left, and those
with worldwide incidence toward the right.
Along the vertical axis are countries ordered
by per capita income. The white area shows
the “generic region” that would be created by
the policy. Within the generic region, firms
would be able to manufacture and trade in
generic products without any political or procedural complexity arising from the patent
system. The generic region would be recalculated each year to accommodate changes in
income and the evolution of markets.
Because diseases to the left are more
concentrated in developing countries, the 2
percent of global markets cutoff is reached
at lower levels of real GDP per capita. It
may seem counterintuitive to propose differentiating in this way, but it is precisely
for diseases that are concentrated in developing countries that some incentive for
product development may need to come
from sales in the developing world.
The proposed generic region

$5,000

Countries,
ordered by
real GDP
per capita
Generic region

Legally binding commitments not
to enforce patent rights
The proposal considered here7 would have
inventors in developed countries make
legally binding commitments to their own
governments not to enforce patent rights in
certain pharmaceutical markets. These
markets would be defined as those together
representing the bottom, say, 2 percent of

Rest of the world
(no change)

0
Concentrated
Global
in LDCs
Disease classes
Source: Lanjouw (2004).

Focus on drug access

The poorest countries falling below the
dashed line would be allowed generics on
all pharmaceuticals. Countries higher up,
such as India, would have a mixed situation. They would be in the TRIPS environment for diseases concentrated in the
developing world, while in the generic
region for more global diseases. For markets in the gray area above the curved line,
the policy as no effect. Both the responsibilities and the flexibilities of TRIPS
remain unchanged.
The size of the generic region depends
on two parameters: the ceiling income level
(here $5,000) and, more important, the
global sales cutoff (here 2 percent).
The proposal would be implemented by
having inventors in developed countries
make a legally binding commitment to
their own governments not to enforce
patent rights in the generic region, as part
of obtaining a license to make foreign
patent filings (the foreign filing license).
Firms would continue to obtain patents
wherever they like, and no decisions related
to the policy would be needed at the time of
applying for a patent. Instead, decisions

that relate to the policy—about where to
enforce patent rights—would arise only
after products have reached the market. To
ensure compliance, the patent holder would
lose the right to enforce the domestic patent
on the same product if the holder were to
break the commitment and begin an
enforcement action in one of the proscribed markets.
Implementation would need to be
coordinated across the developed countries
that have pharmaceutical research activity,
including, at least, Canada, Europe, Japan,
and the United States. The policy would
require legislation to amend the patent
code in each country. In the United States
and the United Kingdom this would
include adding an inventor declaration to
an existing foreign filing license process;
other countries would need to put a foreign filing license provision into their
codes.8 The classification of countries and
disease classes could be carried out by an
international organization and reviewed
annually.
Developing countries would not be
required to take any action to implement

225

this policy. They would continue to take
steps to comply with TRIPS and any bilateral treaty obligations in accord with their
current plans. The countries in the generic
region could be treated as one country from
the viewpoint of patents. Production could
be based in any one country and drugs
could be exported to all other countries in
that group, without any costs associated
with patents and compulsory licensing.
So, if any country in the generic region
had the ability to produce a given drug, then
all other countries in the region could take
advantage of its production capacity. This
would help get around the problem that
most small countries do not have the capacity or market size to make domestic production of generic drugs a viable activity.
Firms have been willing to make a voluntarily commitment not to exercise
patent rights in the poorest countries. The
foreign filing license proposal discussed
here would take that commitment and
convert it into a reliable part of the global
rules-based system.
Source: Lanjouw (2002, 2004).

Epilogue

This report has argued that equity has a
central place in the interpretation of development experience and in the design of
development policy—and that this place
has been inadequately understood and
undervalued in much current thinking. We
do not propose, however, yet another new
framework for development. Instead, recognizing the importance of equity (that is,
equality of opportunity and the avoidance
of absolute deprivation) implies the need to
integrate and extend existing approaches. In
this epilogue, we seek to place the analysis
and messages of the report in the context of
some of the major contemporary strands of
thinking and action in development.
Four broad strands of thinking have
been at the core of development discourse
and practice over the last three decades or
so: the central role of markets as resource
allocation mechanisms, the importance of
human development, the role of institutions, and a focus on empowerment.
The first strand emphasizes the superiority of markets over central planning as
broad mechanisms to allocate resources and
determine the evolution of economic activity. This has long been understood in economics, but there was a time when it was a
minority view among development economists.1 The situation had definitely changed
by the 1980s, as first India and then China
moved away from planning, and the importance of incentives in determining individual behavior (as consumers, producers, and
regulators) became more widely understood. The rapid and sustained growth that
followed in those two countries underlined
the point. In the 1990s, the economic transition away from planning in the formerly
communist states of Eastern Europe and
Central Asia dispelled any serious view that
226

development was possible without markets
and the private sector.
Although the resulting “Washington Consensus” is sometimes interpreted as antistate, this is not the main message that
survives after more measured consideration.
Instead, just as events in the 1990s confirmed
that markets were essential for development,
they also showed that good governments are
essential for well-functioning markets. Markets operate within a framework determined
by institutions, and they work only as well as
those institutions do. They work best, therefore, when a capable state maintains order
within the rule of law, provides effective
regulation, macroeconomic stability and
other public goods, and corrects other market failures.
The second strand sees human development as central to the development process,
through the expansion of the skills, health, and
capacity of all people to engage in social and
economic activities and to manage the risks
they face. Although the World Development
Report 1980 was on Human Development,2
U.N. agencies—notably the UNDP in their
series of Human Development Reports
(United Nations 2003)—later took the lead in
putting these concerns at the center of the
development agenda. In this, they have been
followed (rightly) by the whole development
community.
For the World Bank, the 1990 World
Development Report on Poverty3 marked
the beginning of a multiyear process of
making poverty reduction the overarching
objective of the institution, building on
these first two strands of development
thought. The 1990 Report argued that
poverty reduction required a two-part
strategy—employment creation through
market-based growth; and expansion of

Epilogue

human capital, especially through broadbased provisioning of social services.
During the 1990s, the third and fourth
strands of thought rose to prominence. The
third strand emphasized the role of “institutions” in development, building both on
trends in academic thought and on development practice across many organizations. It reflected the acknowledgment that
markets, however important, do not work
in a vacuum. They need rules and the institutional enforcement of those rules. The
emphasis on institutions took a variety of
forms: a focus on the costs of corruption; a
broader concern with governance; support
for judicial reform; and a greater practical
understanding of the need for welldesigned, accountable, and effective public
regulation of privatized monopolies.
The fourth strand sought the empowerment of the people for whom development
was supposedly taking place. If the central
goal of development is poverty reduction,
the poor should have a great deal of voice
over its directions. If development needs
markets, and markets need institutions, it
should clearly matter how those institutions
are governed. If power helps determine the
outcomes in market and government processes alike, the distribution of that power
over the population must be important for
development. In practical terms, the emphasis on empowerment has sought greater
participation of the poor in projects affecting them, a greater preoccupation with the
political economy of support for reforms,
and explorations of the role of culture in
development.
Several World Development Reports
have sought to integrate the third and fourth
strands of thought: the 1997 Report on the
“State in a Changing World,”4 the 2002
Report on “Building Institutions for Markets,”5 and, emblematically, the millennial
2000/01 Report on “Attacking Poverty.”6 The
2001 Report argued that poverty reduction
required an expansion in the opportunities
of the poor (notably through marketoriented growth), the empowerment of the
poor, and measures that provide security for
the poor. At the World Bank, this synthesis
was crystallized in a Strategic Framework for
development, which consisted of two pillars:

building a good climate for investment and
empowering the poor.7
The first pillar combined the strands of
thinking on the primacy of markets and on
the centrality of institutions. It argued that
only by having governance institutions that
were at once effective and accountable
could markets generate the best possible
results for investment and growth. This
theme was explored in the 2005 Report, “A
Better Investment Climate for Everyone.”8
The second pillar was also a merger of
sorts: in seeking the empowerment of poor
people—who should be seen as the driving subjects, not as passive objects of development—
it combined thinking on human development, institutions, and empowerment. The
2004 Report, “Making Services Work for
Poor People,” explored these themes in the
delivery of basic services.9
Although the various elements of thinking and policy are complementary—and
indeed have been considered elements of a
“comprehensive” or “holistic” development
process—the narratives associated with the
different strands have often suffered, in
practice, from two important limitations.
One is a tendency to compartmentalize
poverty. The second is to treat actions in the
various realms as separate. There is a tendency to assign market-related and macropolicies to macroeconomic managers and
trade ministries, as though the “investment
climate” concerned only rich people or as
though the poor stood to benefit only indirectly from the trickle-down effects of the
investments by the rich today.
Conversely, it sometimes seems as
though empowerment would have no
impact on the quality of institutions, on the
investment opportunities of the poor, or on
the economy’s growth process. According to
this view, empowerment should be the preserve of well-meaning NGOs and social
development folk, of little import for economic performance.
Such a separation of the two pillars—for the
investment climate and for empowerment—
is profoundly misguided. The analysis in
this report suggests that the root causes of
poverty are to be found in the combined
deprivations of power and investment
opportunities. Lack of incomes, lack of

227

228

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

access to services, lack of assets—these
deprivations go together with lack of voice,
lack of power, lack of status. Public action
could enhance the investment capabilities
of those who have limited opportunities by
investing in their human capital and in the
infrastructure they use and by ensuring
fairness and security in the markets in
which they transact. And if public action
fails to do that, it is because it somehow has
been decided otherwise. In that case, the
government will invest in expensive
schools or universities, rather than in those
used by the poor, for example. It will not
enforce tax collection, rather than build
rural roads. It will allow banks to retain a
degree of market power and lend to the
friends of the government, rather than
allow for entry and promote competition
that forces intermediaries to seek the greatest returns on capital. Observed policies
that fail to address inefficient inequities are
the result of political choices, implicitly or
explicitly.
Such failures in public action, which arise
from and perpetuate inequity, are also
inimical to prosperity. Those who have no
opportunities cannot contribute to the
development of their countries. Their potential talents are wasted, and capital, land, and
other resources are used in inferior ways.
Unequal control over resources reinforces
the unequal concentration of power, and this
is reflected in worse governance institutions:
public service delivery agencies are not
pushed to become more accountable. If all
the power brought to bear on regulators is
that of the friends of the regulated, the quality of regulatory agencies is not likely to
improve much. Police forces and judicial systems will not treat everyone the same way.
And so on. These institutional failures only
add to the negative effects of inequity on
development.
Government policies are what they are—
from Mali to Chile—because someone is
making them. No group is powerless, unless
some other group is powerful. If an
inequitable distribution of opportunities
means that the investment climate for large
groups is poor, this is intimately linked to
the lack of power in those groups to affect
the decision-making processes that could

lead to changes in that distribution over
time. And if power is imbalanced, it is
because wealth and economic opportunities
are uneven. Inequality traps are vicious circles, with economic and political inequalities mutually reinforcing one another.
This report has argued that policy and
institutional reforms can help break these
inequality traps, and turn the vicious circles
into a virtuous process of greater equality in
economic opportunities reinforcing greater
political equality, and vice versa. Reforms
can do this in many ways, which are closely
related to the four strands of thinking discussed above. Interventions that build
greater human capacities for those with the
most limited opportunities (generally the
poor) will prepare them to be more economically productive and more politically
effective. Processes that redistribute access
to land, or to infrastructure services, or
indeed to justice, can add both to empowerment and to the investment opportunities
of the poor. And promoting fairness in
markets is all about improvements in the
quality of institutions that support and
complement markets in ways that broaden
access and ensure equitable rules.
This is consistent with the twin pillars of
a better investment climate and greater
empowerment for the poor. It makes it clear
that—for most people in the developing
world, and certainly for the poor—it is not
possible to have one without the other. A
good investment climate is about real economic opportunities. Equity is about leveling the playing field so that opportunities
are available on the basis of talent and
efforts, rather than on the basis of gender,
race, family background, or other predetermined circumstances. A level economic
playing field is not sustainable without a
level political playing field, and vice versa. If
we want a better investment climate for
everyone, we want empowerment. The
combination of both implies equity.
These issues apply with equal force at the
global level. The extraordinary inequalities
in opportunity faced by individuals born in
different countries reflect different political
and economic histories across nations.
While domestic policy is undoubtedly fundamental, global interactions help shape

Epilogue

the context for national economic and
social advance. The Monterrey Consensus
explicitly emphasizes the need for a compact between rich and poor societies if the
Millennium Development Goals are to be
achieved. It recognizes the role of action by
rich countries, especially in the areas of aid
and trade. For aid, this is reflected in the
quest to change the donor-recipient relationship from one of giving to one of partnership, with developing countries clearly
in the lead in designing their policies and
institutions.
This report underlines the importance of
that compact and a more equal interna-

tional partnership. But it also highlights
inequalities in the processes forming the
rules of the game in the international playing field. Inequalities in economic and
political power in the global arena influence
the design of rules in ways that often
restrict, rather than expand, the opportunities of poorer countries—and, even more,
of poorer groups within these countries.
Just as in the domestic context, therefore,
equity and efficiency in the international
arena are more likely to be attained by reforms that enhance the power and broaden
the economic access of the countries where
the world’s poor live.

229

Bibliographical Note

This Report draws on a wide range of World Bank documents and on numerous outside sources. Background
papers were prepared by Martin Andersson, Armando
Barrientos, Carles Boix, Leila Chirayath, Stijn Claessens,
Klaus Decker, Ashwini Deshpande, Leopoldo Fergusson, José
Fernández-Albertos, Christer Gunnarsson, Emmanuel
Gymi-Boadi, Karla Hoff, Markus Jäntti, José Antonio
Lucero, Marco Manacorda, Siobhan McInerney-Lankford,
Joy Moncrieffe, Enrico Perotti, Vibha Pinglé, Pablo Querubi,
Martin Ravallion, Michael Ross, Juho Saari, Rachel SabatesWheeler, Carolina Sánchez-Páramo, Norbert Schady,
Andrew Shepherd, Milena Stefanova, and Juhana Vartiainen.
Background papers for the Report are available either on the
World Wide Web http://www.worldbank.org/wdr2006,
under Background Papers or through the World Development Report office. The views expressed in these papers are
not necessarily those of the World Bank or of this Report.
Many people inside and outside the World Bank gave comments to the team. Valuable comments and contributions were
provided by Nisha Agrawal, Asad Alam, Sabina Alkire, Sudhir
Anand, Cristian Baeza, Gianpaolo Baiocchi, Catherine Baker,
Judy L. Baker, Giorgio Barba Navaretti, Catherine Barber,
Jacques Baudouy, Gordon Betcherman, Lisa Bhansali, Vinay K.
Bhargava, Amar Bhattacharya, Nancy Birdsall, Andrea Brandolini, John Bruce, Barbara Bruns, Donald Bundy, Luis Felipe
López Calva, Shubham Chaudhuri, Martha Chen, Shaohua
Chen, Aimee Christensen, Denis Cogneau, Giovanni Andrea
Cornia, Anis Dani, Roberto Dañino, Jishnu Das, Klaus Decker,
Arjan de Haan, Klaus Deininger, Asli Demirguc-Kunt, Kemal
Dervis, Jean-Jacques Dethier, Shanta Devarajan, Peter A.
Dewees, Charles Di Leva, Mala Escobar, Antonio Estache, Joan
Maria Estebán, Shahrokh Fardoust, Massimo Florio, David
Freestone, Adrian Fozzard, Teresa Genta Fons, Vivien Foster, M.
Louise Fox, Sebastián Galiani, Alan Gelb, Alec Gershberg, Elena
Glinskaya, Delfin Go, Carol Graham, Maurizio Guadagni,
Susana Cordeiro Guerra, Isabel Guerrero, David Gwatkin, Jeff
Hammer, Patrick Heller, Amy Jill Heyman, Bert Hofman,
Patrick Honohan, R. Mukami Kariuki, Christine Kessides,
Homi Kharas, Elizabeth King, Larry Kohler, Jacob Kolster,
Somik Lall, Ruben Lamdany, Danny M. Leipziger, Victoria
Levin, Sandy Lieberman, Peter Lindert, Amy Luinstra, Xubei
Luo, Bill Maloney, Katherine Marshall, Siobhan McInerney-

Lankford, Stephen Mink, Pradeep Mitra, Ed Mountfield, Chris
Murray, Edmundo Murrugarra, Mamta Murthi, Ijaz Nabi,
Mustapha K. Nabli, Julia Nielson, Pedro Olinto, Robert O’Sullivan, Ça˘glar Özden, John Page, Sheila Page, Guillermo Perry,
Lant Pritchett, Agnes Quisumbing, Maurizio Ragazzi, Robin
Michael Rajack, Raghuram G. Rajan, Dena Reingold, Kaspar
Richter, Maria Estela Rivero-Fuentes, Peter Roberts, John Roemer, Fabio Sánchez, Milena Sánchez de Boado, Stefano Scarpetta, George Schieber, Maurice Schiff, Jesica Seacor, Binayak
Sen, Shekhar Shah, Tony Shorrocks, Ricardo Silveira, Nistha
Sinha, Milena Stefanova, Nicholas Stern, Kalanidhi Subbarao,
Mark Sundberg, Rosa Alonso i Terme, Vinod Thomas, Peter
Timmer, Bernice K. Van Bronkhorst, Rogier J.E. van den Brink,
Rudolf Van Puymbroeck, Tara Vishwanath, Adam Wagstaff,
L. Alan Winters, Ruslan Yemtsov, Nobuo Yoshida, Mary Eming
Young, Hassan Zaman, and Heng-Fu Zou.
Other valuable assistance was provided by Jean-Pierre S.
Djomalieu, Gytis Kanchas, Polly Means, Nacer Mohamed
Megherbi, and Kavita Watsa. Christopher Neal and Stephen
Commins assisted the team with consultations and dissemination.
Despite efforts to compile a comprehensive list, some who
contributed may have been inadvertently omitted. The team
apologizes for any oversights and reiterates its gratitude to all
who contributed to this Report.

Background Papers
Andersson, Martin, and Christer Gunnarsson. “Egalitarianism in
the Process of Modern Economic Growth: The Case of Sweden.”
Barrientos, Armando. “Cash Transfers for Older People Reduce
Poverty and Inequality.”
Boix, Carles. “Spain: Development, Democracy and Equity.”
Chirayath, Leila, Caroline Sage, and Michael Woolcock. “Customary Law and Policy Reform: Engaging with the Plurality of Justice Systems.”
Claessens, Stijn, and Enrico Perotti. “The Links Between Finance
and Inequality: Channels and Evidence.”
de Haan, Arjan. “Disparities Within India’s Poorest Regions: Why
Do The Same Institutions Work Differently In Different Places?”
Decker, Klaus, Siobhan McInerney-Lankford, and Caroline Sage.
“Human Rights and Equitable Development: ‘Ideals’, Iissues and
Implications.”

232

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Decker, Klaus, Caroline Sage, and Milena Stefanova. “Law or Justice: Building Equitable Legal Institutions.”
Deshpande, Ashwini. “Affirmative Action in India and the United
States.”
Hoff, Karla. “What Can Economists Explain by Taking into Account
People’s Perceptions of Fairness? Punishing Cheats, Bargaining
Impasse, and Self-Perpetuating Inequalities.”
Jäntti, Markus, Juho Saari, and Juhana Vartiainen. “Country Case
Study: Finland-Combining Growth with Equity.”
Lucero, José Antonio. “Indigenous Political Voice and the Struggle
for Recognition in Ecuador and Bolivia.”
Moncrieffe, Joy. “Beyond Categories: Power, Recognition, and the
Conditions for Equity.”

Pinglé, Vibha. “Faith, Equity, and Development.”
Rao, Vijayendra. “Symbolic Public Goods and the Coordination of
Collective Action: A Comparison of Local Development in India
and Indonesia.”
Ravallion, Martin. “Why Should Poor People Care about Inequality?”
Ross, Michael. “Mineral Wealth and Equitable Development.”
Sabates-Wheeler, Rachel. “Asset Inequality and Agricultural
Growth: How Are Patterns of Asset Inequality Established and
Reproduced?”
Shepherd, Andrew and Emmanuel Gyimah-Boadi, with Sulley
Gariba, Sophie Plagerson, and Abdul Wahab Musa. “Bridging the
North-south Divide in Ghana.”

Endnotes

Overview
1. The infant mortality rates are computed separately at the
province level only, and do not take into account racial, gender, or
other social differences. The life expectancy statistics are for race
and gender groups, and do not take regional or income differences
into account. The real differences between typical individuals with
the listed characteristics are therefore likely to be understated. In
addition, Nthabiseng’s life expectancy could be much lower if she
were to become infected with HIV/AIDS, as are many young South
African women. Data come from Day and Hedberg (2004). Predicted years of schooling rely on disaggregated information—by
province, sex, race, rural-urban location, consumption expenditure
quintile, and mother’s education—from the Labor Force Survey
and the Income and Expenditure Survey for 2000, which were carried out by the South Africa Statistics Office.
2. Predicted monthly consumption expenditures in 2000 for
persons with those characteristics were Rand 119 ($45 adjusted for
purchasing power parity) for Nthabiseng and Rand 3,662 ($1,370)
for Pieter. The average white male with a highly educated mother,
who lives in Cape Town and is in the top 20 percent of the distribution, happens to be in the ninety-ninth percentile of the overall
income distribution. Data come from the Labor Force Survey and
the Income and Expenditure Survey for 2000.
3. There are also income, consumption, and other differences:
Sven can expect to earn $833 a month compared with the South
African mean of $207 (Nthabiseng will have $44 a month). If Sven
had been even luckier, and had been born at the same rank in Sweden’s income distribution as Pieter occupied in South Africa, his
expected monthly earnings would climb to $2,203. Sven will be able
to visit any country on a whim, whereas Nthabiseng and Pieter can
expect to spend hours waiting for a visa, which they may or may
not obtain.
4. In some cases, such as China’s decollectivization of agriculture in the late 1970s, a reform may lead to more efficiency, broader
opportunities, and yet greater (intrarural) income inequality.
China’s experience—and the decompression of wages in a number
of transition economies in Europe and Central Asia—is a good
illustration of a more general point: because equity refers to fair
processes and equal opportunities, it cannot be inferred from
income distributions alone. Greater fairness will generally lead to
lower income inequality, but not always. And not all policies that
reduce inequality increase equity.
5. Mazumder (2005).
6. Other interactions between unequal opportunities and social
conditions are also of societal concern, including links between
inequality and crime, and between inequality and health. We

review them briefly in the report, but focus on the channels of more
direct significance to equity.
7. There may be many sound economic reasons for these riskadjusted interest rates to vary, including fixed administrative loan
costs, greater informational asymmetries, and the like. The point is
that this affects poorer groups more, in ways unrelated to their
investment opportunities, thus leading to both greater inefficiency
and the perpetuation of inequalities.
8. These averages are based on actual episodes and refer to the
total growth elasticity of poverty reduction, inclusive of any
changes in inequality. “Low” and “high” inequality refers to a Gini
coefficient of 0.3 and 0.6 respectively. The partial elasticity of
poverty to growth, assuming no change in the Lorenz curve, shows
a similar decline, but not to zero (see chapter 4).
9. While equity-enhancing redistribution will usually be from
richer groups to poorer groups, it could happen that “good” redistributions will be to groups that are not poor, especially those in the
middle. This will depend on the nature of the market failure. For
example, the initial beneficiaries of a less-captured financial system
may be small and medium entrepreneurs. Benefits to the poor will
occur when enhanced access to financial services among middleclass entrepreneurs translates into faster growth and job creation.
Chapter 1
1. This formulation draws loosely on Roemer (1998), but it is
also related to the works of Dworkin (1981b), Dworkin (1981a),
and Sen (1985).
2. See Rawls (1971).
3. See Acemoglu and Robinson (2000), Bourguignon and
Verdier (2000), and Ferreira (2001).
4. This theme is one that recurs across many disciplines—in
sociology and anthropology see Bourdieu (1986), Bourdieu (1990),
and Tilly (1998), in economics see Engerman and Sokoloff (2001),
Bénabou (2000), and Piketty (1995).
5. See Acemoglu and Robinson (2000) for various perspectives
on the interconnections among cultural, social, and economic
inequality, and Stewart (2001) for a general discussion of groupbased inequalities.
6. Appadurai (2004).
7. See Bourdieu (1990) on symbolic violence for more on this.
8. Steele (1999).
9. Appadurai (2004).
10. See Rao and Walton (2004) for more on such “inequalities of
agency.”
11. See also Birdsall, Graham, and Sabbot (1998) and Thorbecke
(2005).
233

234

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

12. “Too much” and “too little” are used here with respect to the
social optimum. The choices are usually privately rational.
13. The role of high inequality of political power and wealth as a
barrier to economic development in the modern era is a rapidly
growing area of research. Striking results are reported in Sokoloff
and Khan (1990), Engerman and Sokoloff (1997, 2002), Acemoglu,
Johnson, and Robinson (2001, 2002), and Banerjee and others
(2001). Overviews of the broad set of research questions are Engerman and Sokoloff (2002), Hoff (2003), and Acemoglu, Johnson,
and Robinson (2004).
14. This is so if the distribution of talents and informational
asymmetries between employers and employees are similar
between men and women. Notice that the efficiency gain does not
satisfy the Pareto criterion. Some individual men might lose out.
The efficiency criterion here is first-order dominance, under the
anonymity axiom.
15. Of course, the intrinsic valuation of equity may be
reflected in the appropriate distributional weights underpinning
these benefits.
16. This has been a recurrent theme in development economics
and at the World Bank. For an influential early treatment, see
Chenery and others (1994).
17. World Bank (1990).
18. World Bank (2001h).
Focus 1 on Palanpur
1. The study was launched out of the Agricultural Economics
Research Centre of the University of Delhi and Oxford University,
and then continued from the London School of Economics.
2. Drèze, Lanjouw, and Sharma (1998), 51.
3. Drèze, Lanjouw, and Sharma (1998), 211.
Chapter 2
1. Filmer (2004).
2. See, for instance, Wilkinson (1992) and Wilkinson (2000).
3. High rank, on the other hand, can be protective of health,
including enhancing one’s resistance to infectious disease.
4. Fujii (2005).
5. Interestingly, for each of the three population groupings, the
relative gap in infant mortality between groups rose in approximately half of the countries and fell in the other half.
6. Chaudhury and others (2005).
7. Araujo, Ferreira, and Schady (2004) use a new data set, constructed from individual record data in household surveys for 124
countries. Qualitatively similar results were also obtained by
Castello and Domenech (2002) and Thomas, Wang, and Fan
(2002), both of which rely on the Barro and Lee (2001) international education data set.
8. See, for example, Kanbur (2000).
9. See Kanbur (2000), Elbers and others (2005).
10. Wan, Lu, and Chen (2004).
11. These correlations hold whether or not between-group
inequality is measured on the basis of the conventional or alternative methodology. They also hold after controlling for outliers
(although South Africa is a particularly influential observation in
the regression of inequality on social group differences). The results
also hold when all the between-group shares are combined into a
single-count indicator that reflects whether a particular country

has a higher-than-median value of the between-group share for a
particular population breakdown.
12. Bourguignon and Morrisson (1998).
13. Li, Squire, and Zou (1998).
14. The consumption module in India’s National Sample Survey
was slightly modified between the 1993/4 round and the 1999/0,
compromising both poverty and inequality comparisons over time.
Deaton and Kozel (2004) provide a clear overview of the issues and
their implications.
15. Deaton and Drèze (2002), Sen and Himanshu (2004) and
Banerjee and Piketty (2003) all document increases in inequality,
but by varying amounts. These estimates are all predicated on certain assumptions given the fundamental problems of data comparability referred to above.
16. Khan and Sen (2001).
17. Narayan and Yoshida (2004).
18. Nepal National Planning Commission (1995–6).
19. For a sociological perspective on the inheritance of inequality, see Erikson and Goldthrope (2002).
20. Solon (1999).
21. Mazumder (2005).
22. Hertz (2001) for South Africa; Dunn (2003) for Brazil.
23. Solon (2002).
24. World Bank (2001h).
25. Jha, Rao, and Woolcock (forthcoming).
26. Appadurai (2004).
27. See, for example, Fernández-Kelly (1995) on life in the U.S.
inner city.
28. Appadurai (2004).
29. This term comes from Nussbaum (2000) and her work on
gender discrimination and development, although the core idea has
a long intellectual history in social science.
30. It is also important to note that the appearance of “internalizing disadvantage” (for example, working slowly, being tardy) can actually be a covert strategy used by marginalized groups to subvert systems over which they otherwise have little influence. See Scott (1986).
31. If income inequality, a static measure, is a good proxy for
social mobility, a dynamic concept, then these theories find support
in the large literature on income inequality and crime. See, for
example, Demombynes and Özler (2005) for a discussion of the
subject at the country level, and Fajnzylber, Lederman, and Loayza
(2000), among others, on the cross-country level relationship
between income inequality and crime.
32. See Narayan (2002) for a categorization of approaches and
case studies.
33. See Petesch, Smulovitz, and Walton (2005).
34. Gibson and Woolcock (2005); for methodological details on
the broader research project of which this study is a part (and the
evidence base on which the assertions made here rest), see Barron,
Smith, and Woolcock (2004).
35. See also Rao (2005) on the related idea of such spaces as
“symbolic public goods.”
36. Maynard (1966); Casagrande and Piper (1969).
37. Oster (2005) has recently argued that hepatitis B affects offspring ratios and has suggested that geographic patterns of hepatitis B prevalence can explain about 45 percent of the missing
women. The magnitude of the hepatitis B effect is currently still the
subject of controversy (see e.g., Klasen 2005).

Endnotes

38. Das Gupta and others (2003).
39. Lloyd (forthcoming), with original data from The Center for
Reproductive Law and Policy.
40. Lloyd (2005)(forthcoming).
41. Agarwal (1994); Deere and León (2003).
42. Mason and Carlsson (forthcoming).
43. Rahman and Rao (2004).
44. Kabeer (1999).
45. Kabeer (1997).
46. This disparity is less apparent in enrollments in primary
school, which has become more equitable over the last decade.
47. Browning and Chiappori (1998).
48. See Strauss, Mwabu, and Beegle (2000) for an excellent survey of economic models of intrahousehold allocation.
49. Thomas (1990).
50. Lundberg, Pollak, and Wales (1997).
51. Quisumbing and Maluccio (2003).
52. Heise, Ellsberg, and Gottemoeller (1999).
53. Kabeer (1997).
54. Rahman and Rao (2004).
55. Munshi and Rosenzweig (forthcoming).
56. Quisumbing, Estudillo, and Otsuka (2004).
57. Das Gupta and others (2004).
Chapter 3
1. Deaton (2004), 31. The large differences in mortality do not
just exist between rich and poor countries, or between different
groups of citizens in poor countries only. In 2002, the median age at
death in Australia for indigenous people was roughly 20 years less
than that for nonindigenous males, which was approximately 76
years (Australian Bureau of Statistics 2003).
2. Botswana, which has one of the highest HIV/AIDS infection
rates in the world, has seen its life expectancy drop from its peak of
60 years in the mid-1980s to 39 years in 2000.
3. Bourguignon, Levin, and Rosenblatt (2004a), 3.
4. See the following quotes that nicely demonstrate the debate
on globalization and the inequality of incomes: “Globalization
raises incomes and the poor participate fully,” The Economist, May
27, 2000, 94. “There is plenty of evidence that current patterns of
growth and globalization are widening income disparities.” Policy
Director of Oxfam, letter to The Economist, June 20, 2000, 6.
5. Doing this in practice requires household survey data and various adjustments and assumptions—all far from simple—which is
why so many people discuss international or intercountry inequality
using National Accounts data instead of global inequality.
6. Pritchett (1997).
7. It is important to note that all the evidence presented here
refer to intercountry or international inequality in life expectancy at
birth, and not to global inequalities, because we do not use any evidence on within-country differences in life expectancy.
8. Goesling and Firebaugh (2004).
9. Note that the declines in life expectancy for the mainly SubSaharan African countries do not seem to be a direct result of
changes in infant mortality, which in many cases continued to
decline. However, as Cornia and Menchini (2005) argue, the rate of
decline in infant mortality also slowed down significantly in the last
decade, which cannot be explained solely by the changes in Europe
and Central Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa.

235

10. Deaton (2004).
11. Pritchett (forthcoming). The richest quintile is defined
based on an asset index created by Filmer and Pritchett (1999).
12. One example of such decomposition is Pradhan, Sahn, and
Younger (2003), who claim that less than one-third of the world
inequality in child health is attributable to differences between
countries.
13. Gwatkin (2002). Again, the richest decile here is defined
based on the asset index by Filmer and Pritchett (1999).
14. Preston (1980) as cited in Deaton (2004).
15. Also note that all of the countries that are significantly below
the curve, that is, those with much lower life expectancy at birth
than their GDP per capita would predict, such as South Africa, are
in Sub-Saharan Africa.
16. See Deaton (2004). In fact, Cornia and Menchini (2005) cite
the rise in parents literacy and female education as the main reason
behind the remarkable declines in infant mortality rates in Latin
America and the Caribbean and Middle East and North Africa in
the 1980s.
17. The increase in inequality between countries in life
expectancy at birth in the 1990s is also confirmed by Goesling and
Firebaugh (2004).
18. A recent paper by Brainerd and Cuttler (2004) cites increased
alcohol use and psychosocial stress brought on by an unpredictable
future as the two main contributors to the decline in life expectancy
in Russia and other countries of the former Soviet Union.
19. This figure in Morocco compares with roughly threequarters of the same cohort in Indonesia and Turkey, and about
85 percent in Colombia and Philippines.
20. While making these comparisons between countries, the
reader should bear in mind the discussion on the comparability of
these data from box 2.5 and not interpret these differences literally.
21. The urban and rural figures for China (and India) have not
been corrected for cost-of-living differences. Given that rural-urban
price differentials have been increasing over time and are significant
today (Chen and Ravallion 2004), the figures here exaggerate the differences in living standards between the rural and urban Chinese.
22. Kolm (1976) proposed the following class of absolute measures of inequality:
n

1 1
κ ( µ− y i )
K = ln 
e
,
κ  n i= 1

where κ>0 is a parameter that captures inequality aversion.
23. Atkinson and Brandolini (2004) discuss changes in international as well as global inequality. We use only their results on international inequality to make our point on the trend differences
when one switches from a relative concept of inequality to an
absolute one.
24. Such as Milanovic (2005).
25. See Firebaugh and Goesling (2004), Sala-i-Martin (2002).
26. Our analysis shows that we can estimate GE(0), that is, mean
log deviation, from grouped data, especially if the number of
groups is larger than 10, without any significant bias using our
smoothing techniques.
27. The difficulties in assembling a database to calculate global
inequality over such a long time period are detailed in Bourguignon and Morrisson (2002), 729–30.
28. Pritchett (1997), 14.

∑

236

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

29. Bourguignon, Levin, and Rosenblatt (2004a).
30. Ravallion (2004a) as cited in Bourguignon, Levin, and
Rosenblatt (2004a).
31. See, for example, Chen and Ravallion (2004).
32. Vietnam and Thailand practically eliminated $1 a day
poverty during this period.
33. The projections for meeting some of the other Millennium
Development Goals do not give one cause for greater optimism.
East Asia and Europe and Central Asia are close to the target on primary education, while others are falling behind. A handful of countries are on track to attain the child mortality goal, mainly in Latin
America and the Caribbean. Only 21 percent of the developing
world’s population is expected to achieve the maternal mortality
goal. Halving the proportion of people without access to safe water
and sanitation will require providing about 1.5 billion people with
access to safe water and 2 billion with basic sanitation facilities
between 2000 and 2015. At current rates of service expansion, only
about one-fifth of countries are on track. See http://www.un.org/
millenniumgoals/ for more details on the 8 goals, 18 targets, and
nearly 50 indicators that comprise the Millennium Development
Goals.
34. Deaton (2004). The rules of the game at the global level, and
especially the process of setting those rules, will be discussed in
great detail in chapter 10.
35. Voting shares in the soft-lending arm of the World Bank, the
International Development Association, are similar: Part I countries hold 61 percent of the vote and Part II countries 39 percent.
Developing countries are somewhat better represented in regional
development banks, but developed countries hold large voting
shares there too.
36. In all other cases, the delegates in charge of economic matters may be covering, in addition to the WTO, also UNCTAD, ITU,
ILO and WIPO.
37. Each country belongs to one of the following four categories
based on its GDP per capita in 2002: low income, lower-middle
income, higher-middle income, and high income.
38. López (2000) as cited in Deaton (2004).
39. Pritchett (2001) and Pritchett (2004b).
40. Firebaugh and Goesling (2004).
41. Sala-i-Martin (2002).
42. Pritchett attributes this phrase to Gerschenkron (1962).
43. Pritchett (1997), 15.
44. As cited in Goesling and Firebaugh (2004).
45. As cited in Sala-i-Martin (2002).
46. Goesling and Firebaugh (2004).
Focus 2 on empowerment
1. Evans (2004).
2. See Petesch, Smulovitz, and Walton (2005) for the interactions between opportunity structure and the agency of subordinate
groups.
3. Chaudhuri and Heller (2003).
4. Baiocchi, Chaudhuri, and Heller (2005).
5. Chaudhuri, Harilal, and Heller (2004).
6. The concepts of “terms of recognition” and “capacity to
aspire” come from Appadurai (2004); “capacity to engage” is from
Gibson and Woolcock (2005).
7. Rao and Walton (2004).

8. On the origins, structure and goals of KDP, see Guggenheim
(forthcoming).
9. Gibson and Woolcock (2005).
10. Barron, Diprose, and Woolcock (2005).
Part II
1. In his second inaugural address, Roosevelt also suggested that
avoiding deprivation in outcomes was a legitimate policy aim. As he
put it, “The test of our progress is not whether we add more to the
abundance of those who have much; it is whether we provide
enough for those who have too little” (Washington, DC, January 20,
1937). There tends to be less agreement on the importance of
inequality in specific outcome spaces. Writing about income
inequality, Feldstein (1998) argues that increases in inequality
caused by larger incomes at the very top warrant no policy attention, and represent “pure Pareto improvements,” to which only
“spiteful egalitarians” would object.
2. Michel Ferry, online consultation message, dated October 26,
2004, 10:56 a.m.
3. As chapter 1 also indicated, this is not equivalent to saying
that implementing redistributions is free of tradeoffs, particularly
in the short run, or that terrible inefficiencies cannot arise if redistributions are implemented in ways that pay no heed to incentives.
We return to these difficult policy issues in chapters 7, 8, and 9.
Chapter 4
1. See Pinglé (2005).
2. Plato, The Laws, 745, quoted in Cowell (1995), 21.
3. The reason for this reputation is the combination of a utilitarian objective with a set of (rather restrictive) assumptions about
individual utilities: (i) individual preferences can be represented by
a utility function; (ii) cardinal utility levels are meaningful indicators of the individual’s well-being; (iii) utilities can be compared
across different people; (iv) the utility functions are increasing but
concave (that is, increase at a declining rate) in incomes; and (v) all
individuals have identical utility functions. If they all hold, then, for
a fixed level of aggregate income, the greatest sum of utilities is
achieved by an equal division of incomes across all individuals.
4. Sen (2000), 69.
5. For example, within German Courts, the standard of what is
equitable is based on “the opinion of all those people who think in
equitable and just terms”(Palandt 2004, article 242).
6. For example, within common law jurisdictions, key principles
that guide the application of equity include the principles of
“unconscionability,” “undue influence,” “duress,” and “unjust
enrichment.” A transaction has been deemed unconscionable
where “one party to a transaction is at a special disadvantage in
dealing with the other party because illness, ignorance, inexperience, impaired faculties, financial need, or other circumstances
affect his ability to conserve his own interests, and the other party
unconscientiously takes advantage of the opportunity thus placed
in his hands” (High Court of Australia, Blomley v. Ryan 1956, 99
CLR 362 at p. 415, per Kitto J.).
7. Aristotle, The Nicomachean Ethics, book 5, chapter 10, 350 BC.
8. Kritzer (2002), p. 495. For a more detailed discussion of the
philosophical evolution of the concept, see Alland and Rials (2003).
9. The Chancellory Courts have their origin in the residual discretionary power of the King, generally exercised by the Chancellor,

Endnotes

to correct or overturn cases in which justice could not be obtained
by a common law court.
10. In the common law tradition, equitable jurisdiction is also
associated with a number of well-established principles, sometimes
called the “maxims of equity.” Examples of these include: He who
seeks equity must do equity—that is, a claimant who seeks equitable
relief must be prepared to act fairly toward the defendant (future
conduct); He who comes to equity must come with clean hands—
similar to the previous principle, but related to the claimant’s past
conduct; Equity looks at intent rather than form—equity is more
concerned with substance than form.
11. Cadiet (2004), 425.
12. See Arnaud (1993) and Draï (1991).
13. Preamble to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
(1948).
14. Note also Article 1(3)—purposes of Charter—“promoting
and encouraging respect for human rights and for fundamental
freedoms for all without distinction as to race, sex, language or religion” Article 2(1)—“sovereign equality of all members”—indicates
balance between the principles of sovereignty and noninterference
and of respect for human rights; Article 55—“universal respect for,
and observance of human rights.” Other references to human rights
include Articles 13(b)(1), 62(2), and 68.
15. Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action Vienna Declaration (UNGA) (A/CONF. 157/23), July 12, 1993. This was issued
by the U.N. World Conference on Human Rights, Vienna, Austria,
June 14–25, 1993.
16. Rights identified in the UDHR include the right “without
any discrimination to equal protection before the law” (Article 7),
the right to “take part in the government of his country, directly or
through freely chosen representatives” (Article 21), and the right to
education (Article 26).
17. There exist several different characterizations of the “core
human rights treaties.” One is the “International Bill of Rights,”
which comprises the Universal Declaration on Human Rights, the
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. Another
conceptualization is that there are six major human rights treaties:
the ICCPR (1966), the ICESCR (1966), the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination (ICERD) (1964), the
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination
Against Women (CEDAW) (1989), the Convention Against Torture
(CAT) (1984) and the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC)
(1989). None of these characterizations should be taken as exhaustive
or exclusive; there are several other extremely important human
rights treaties beyond these, both within the U.N. system and outside
it in regional systems. The OHCHR lists “seven core international
human rights instruments”: the six above, plus the International
Convention on the Protection of the Rights of Migrant Workers and
the Members of their Families (1990). In addition to this, mention
should also be made of the Genocide Convention (1948).
18. Henrich and others (2004) report on Ultimatum Games
played in 15 small-scale societies around the world. In an Indonesian experiment, Cameron (1999) found that high offers persisted
in games played with (locally) very high monetary stakes.
19. See, for instance, Fehr and Schmidt (1999) on a theory of
“inequity aversion,” and Rabin (1993) on a model of behavior that
takes other people’s intentions directly into account.

237

20. Ibid.
21. Terry, Carey, and Callan (2001).
22. This is the question in the United States General Social Survey, which was fielded every year between 1972 and 1997. A similar
question is included in the Euro-Barometer surveys, which are also
used in the study.
23. Subjective well-being—or “happiness”—surveys have also
been used to test the relative income hypothesis in a number of different settings. Following on original work by Easterlin (1974),
which suggested that, despite sustained economic growth, people in
some rich countries were not growing any happier, a number of
recent studies have found that reported well-being rises with personal income, but declines with the income of other people in a
person’s reference group. This is usually interpreted to mean that
well-being is driven at least in part by relative incomes, rather than
purely by their absolute levels. See Graham and Felton (2005) for
Latin America, Ravallion and Lokshin (2002) for the Russian Federation, and Luttmer (2004) for the United States. The relative
income literature is of tangential interest for this report, because it
provides additional backing for the idea that one’s position in society in relation to others matters, both for individual behavior and
for welfare.
24. See De Ferranti and others (2004) for an earlier discussion of
this data.
25. The professions included skilled factory worker, doctor in
private practice, chairman of a large national company, lawyer,
shop assistant, federal cabinet minister, judge of the nation’s highest court, owner/manager of a large factory, and unskilled worker.
Respondents were also asked about their own income.
26. Countries in the ISSP sample include the following: Austria,
Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Israel, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland,
the United Kingdom, and the United States.
27. This figure is an update, based on more recent data, of an
original figure that appeared in Ravallion and Chen (1997).
28. See, once again, Ravallion and Chen (1997) and Bourguignon (2003).
29. Using a slightly different dataset, and a decomposition technique that also accounts for the differential sensitivity of different
poverty measures to changes in mean incomes, Kraay (forthcoming) finds that the growth share in this variance is closer to 70 percent. In a sample of long spells only, that share rises to 94 percent.
30. Whereas the total growth elasticity of poverty reduction
simply relates total change in poverty to the growth in mean
incomes, without controlling for changes in the relative distribution and is therefore given by
ε Tµ =

∆P µ
P ∆µ ,

the partial growth elasticity of poverty reduction controls for
changes in inequality. That means that it is calculated for a given
Lorenz curve:
 µ 
 µ 
P  Lt , t +1  − P  Lt , t 
z
z µ
∆P µ



ε Pµ =
=
.
P ∆µ Lt
 µ 
∆µ
P  Lt , t 
z 


238

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

This definition, like the decomposition on which it is based, is pathdependent, and the elasticity would be somewhat different if it was
calculated on the basis of the final-period Lorenz curve, rather than
the initial one. In this report, we always use the initial period relative distribution when computing partial growth elasticities. No
regression method is used, so no functional form of any kind is
imposed on the relationship.
31. This finding is qualitatively consistent with alternative estimates of the relationship between partial and total growth elasticities, on the one hand, and income inequality, on the other. See
Bourguignon (2003) and Ravallion (2005).
32. The other four combinations of poverty lines and measures
were also computed, and the upward-sloping pattern is qualitatively robust.
33. See also Bourguignon, Ferreira, and Lustig (2004) for a
detailed discussion of seven country studies.
34. In fact, World Bank (2005b) finds that, on average, the poorest 20 percent of the population in each of 14 countries in their
study grow 0.7 percent for each 1 percentage point growth in mean
incomes.
Chapter 5
1. See, for example, Fisman (2001a).
2. Even in a hypothetical world with perfectly functioning markets, there may still be an indirect influence, coming from the effect
of wealth or income on savings decisions. It has been suggested that
the poor are less inclined to save than the rich, and as a result,
aggregate savings as a proportion of aggregate income may go up if
the rich gain at the expense of the poor. This could affect investment decisions through the effect of the supply of savings on the
price of capital. Inequality, in this Kaldorian view of the world
(after Nicholas Kaldor, the Cambridge economist), would enhance
growth, although it might yet be a Pyrrhic victory. Kaldor worried
about the inevitability of crises under capitalism, and he saw faster
growth accompanied by burgeoning inequality as a recipe for
ongoing crises.
3. Note that such redistributions from wealthier to poorer people do not necessarily have to be to the poorest people in society,
but rather to those with good growth opportunities.
4. Unless there are two different investment opportunities that
have the exact same payoff, net of interest.
5. Dasgupta, Nayar, and Associates (1989).
6. See also Gill and Singh (1977) and Swaminathan (1991).
7. See Djankov and others (2003).
8. See Deaton (1997) for more details.
9. See Townsend (1995).
10. Fafchamps and Lund (2003) find that, in the Philippines,
households are much better insured against some shocks than
against others. In particular, they seem to be poorly insured against
health risk, a finding corroborated by Gertler and Gruber (2002) in
Indonesia.
11. See Banerjee (2000) for a discussion of the alternative
views.
12. Although, there are instances of government scholarships
for tertiary education in many countries that require beneficiaries
to provide a specified number of years of service in government
after graduation.

13. Blair, Judd, and Chapleau (2004). See also Loury (2002) for a
wide-ranging study.
14. See the survey in Steele and Aronson (1995).
15. From McKenzie and Woodruff (2003), figure 1.
16. Olley and Pakes (1996).
17. The ICOR measures the increase in output predicted by a
one-unit increase in capital stock. It is calculated by extrapolating
from the past experience of the country and assumes that the next
unit of capital will be used exactly as efficiently (or inefficiently) as
the previous one. The inverse of the ICOR therefore gives an upper
bound for the average marginal product for the economy—it is an
upper bound because the calculation of the ICOR does not control
for the effect of the increases in the other factors of production,
which also contributes to the increase in output. The implicit
assumption that the other factors of production are growing is
probably reasonable for most developing countries, except perhaps
in Africa.
18. Banerjee and Munshi (2004); Banerjee, Duflo, and Munshi
(2003).
19. This is not because capital and talent happen to be substitutes. In these data, as is generally assumed, capital and ability
appear to be complements.
20. From Goldstein and Udry (1999), figure 4.
21. From Goldstein and Udry (1999), 38.
22. Based on Berry and Cline (1979).
23. Some of the effects of lack of insurance may be quite subtle.
Banerjee and Newman (1991) argue, for example, that the availability of insurance in one location (the village) and its unavailability in another (the city) may lead to inefficient migration decisions,
because some individuals with high potential in the city may prefer
to stay in the village to remain insured.
24. The fact that there is underinvestment on average, and not
only a set of people with too many bullocks and a set of people with
too few, is probably due to the fact that bullocks are a lumpy investment, and owning more than two is inefficient for production
(there is no small adjustment possible at the margin).
25. Another piece of relevant evidence comes from the effects of
titling nonagricultural land. Field (2003) shows evidence from a landtitling program in the slums of urban Peru that suggests that the lack
of a clear title to the land where you have built your home reduces the
ability of the household members to work outside. Field hypothesizes
that this is because someone needs to be home to defend the untitled
property from expropriation by others. But she does not find any evidence that land titling improves access to credit.
26. This number takes into account the fact that only 20 percent
of the Indonesian population is iron deficient. The private returns
of iron supplementation for someone who knew they were iron
deficient—which they can find out using a simple finger prick—
would be $200.
27. Kremer (1993).
28. Li and others (1994).
29. Banerjee and Duflo (2004b), 11.
30. See Bénabou (1996) for a survey.
31. Forbes (2000) also corrects for the bias introduced by introducing a lagged variable in a fixed-effect specification by using the
Generalized Method of Moments (GMM) estimator developed by
Arellano and Bond (1991).

Endnotes

32. Barro (2000) estimates a cross-sectional relationship
between inequality and short-term growth and finds a negative
relation in poor countries but a positive relation in rich ones.
33. Banerjee, Gertler, and Ghatak (2002).
Chapter 6
1. Engerman and Sokoloff (1997).
2. Acemoglu, Johnson, and Robinson (2001), 1387.
3. Klarén (2000), 44–48.
4. See Hemming (1970), 264 on Pizzaro and Melo (1996), 222
on Colombia.
5. Bakewell (1984), Cole (1985), Lockhart (1969) and Mörner
(1973).
6. Lockhart and Schwartz (1983), 34.
7. Parry (1948).
8. Cardoso (1991), Mahoney (2001), and Lang (1975), 28.
9. An analogous story applies to the parts of the region suitable
for plantation agriculture, especially sugar. Colonists in the
Caribbean, present-day Brazil, and the southern United States took
advantage of the international market in slaves and developed distinct but also highly coercive regimes.
10. See Crosby (1986), 143–44.
11. See Craven (1932) and Morgan (1975).
12. See Acemoglu, Johnson, and Robinson (2002), Acemoglu,
Johnson, and Robinson (2004), and Rodrik, Subramanian, and
Trebbi (2002).
13. In addition to arguments noted above, see the econometric
analysis arguing that governance causes growth, but not the other
way, in Kaufmann and Kraay (2002).
14. Haggard (1990) and Kang (2002).
15. Liddle (1991) and MacIntyre (2001b), 259.
16. Geertz (1963), Elson (2001), 194–201, 280–81; Rock (2003), 14.
17. World Bank (1993).
18. Bates (1981).
19. Bates (1981), 122.
20. Bates (1989).
21. Bowman (1991).
22. Fisman (2001b), MacIntyre (2001a), Stern (2003).
23. Lipset (1959).
24. This conjecture is substantiated by the standard account of
the evolution of institutions in Britain, culminating in the Glorious
Revolution of 1688 (North and Thomas 1973, North and Weingast
1989, and O’Brien 1993).
25. See Brenner (1976), Tawney (1941), Moore (1966), and Acemoglu, Johnson, and Robinson (2002b).
26. See Thompson (1963), Tilly (1995), and Tarrow (1998).
27. Acemoglu and Robinson (2000), Acemoglu and Robinson
(2005).
28. Lindert (2003), Lindert (2004).
29. Other data on real wages and real rental rates on land supports this claim; see O’Rourke and Williamson (2002).
30. Li, Squire, and Zou (1998), Rodrik (1999b).
31. This section is based on Andersson and Gunnarsson (2005)
and Jäntti and others (2005).
32. Wade (1990).
33. Andersson and Gunnarsson (2005), 4.
34. Chen and Ravallion (2004).
35. Montinola, Qian, and Weingast (1995), 51–52.

239

36. Qian (2003), 305.
37. In China revenues were collected at the local level and shared
up with higher levels of government
Focus 4 on Indonesia
1. World Bank (1993).
2. Using data from van der Eng (1993a, 1993b, 2002), it is possible to construct an index of pro-poor growth from 1880 to 1990
(Timmer 2005). Using this index, the rates of pro-poor growth for
each historical era were as follows: 1880–1905 = 0.05 percent per
year; 1905–1925 = 4.57 percent per year; 1925–1950 = –2.57 percent per year; 1950–1965 = 2.37 percent per year; and 1965–1990 =
6.56 percent per year.
3. All Indonesian distributional data are subject to the usual
caveats about the difficulty of obtaining adequate responses from
both the very poor and the very rich. In particular, SUSENAS does
not capture the extremely uneven accumulation of wealth or the
conspicuous consumption of the ultra rich.
4. There is a “standard” economic model behind this story, in
which the capital of individuals—formal and informal skills,
land, location, and even accumulated savings—is deployed to
earn incomes, with the possibilities determined by technology,
transactions costs, and market prices. See Alatas and Bourguignon (2004).
5. Temple (2001). These institutions, for better and worse, lived
well beyond the Suharto era.
6. Timmer (2005).
Chapter 7
1. The study finds that it is the quality of parent-child interactions, especially talking to the child, that matters the most (Hart
and Risley 1995).
2. Pollitt, Watkins, and Husaini (1997), Grantham-McGregor
and Ani (2001), Stoltzfus, Kvalsvig, and Chwaya (2001), Black
(2003), Dickson and others (2000), Smith, Brooks-Gunn, and Klebanov (1997).
3. Shore (1997).
4. Rutter, Giller, and Hagell (2000), Karr-Morse and Wiley
(1977).
5. Paxson and Schady (2005).
6. Pritchett (2004a).
7. Carneiro and Heckman (2003).
8. Three of the best-documented studies for the United States
are on the Chicago Child-Parent Centers, a half-day program on a
large scale in the Chicago public schools; the Abecedarian program,
a full-day year-round education program in Chapel Hill, North
Carolina, with followup to age 21; and the High/Scope Perry
Preschool, a half-day program on a small scale in the Ypsilanti,
Michigan, public schools with follow up to age 40. The last two are
small randomized experiments. Studies on the Chicago program
use statistical techniques to control for selection bias and other factors that might confound interpretation of results.
9. Slide 5 of presentation on Heckman and Masterov (2004), at
http://www.ced.org/docs/presentation_heckman1.pdf.
10. Young (2002). In the United States, Currie (2000) notes that,
while all the children in the North Carolina Abecedarian project
were at risk of mental retardation, positive effects were twice as
large for the most disadvantaged children among them. Currie and

240

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Thomas (1999) find that gains in test scores associated with Head
Start were greater for Hispanic children than for non-Hispanic
whites.
11. Grantham-McGregor and others (1991).
12. Deutsch (1998), Attanasio and Vera-Hernandez (2004).
13. Paxson and Schady (2005).
14. Scott-McDonald (2004).
15. Doryan, Gautman, and Foege (2002).
16. Kirpal (2002).
17. Many conditional cash transfers in Latin America already
have some of these features.
18. Currie and Thomas (1995) find that gains in vocabulary and
reading test scores faded out among black Head Start children
while they were still in elementary grades but not among whites
even though initial gains in test scores were the same for both
groups. Currie and Thomas (2000) attribute this to their finding
that black children who attended Head Start go on to attend lowerquality schools than other black children but that the same is not
true for whites.
19. King, Orazem, and Paterno (1999).
20. UNESCO (2005).
21. Thirty-two more countries have too little data to assess
(Bruns, Mingat, and Rakotomalala 2003 and FTI Secretariat 2004).
22. See Wodon (2005) for Niger and Senegal—in Senegal,
when the school is located less than 15 minutes away from home,
the probability of enrollment for boys goes up by 30 percentage
points as compared with having the school more than one hour
away. Burney and Irfan (1995) found negligible impacts of proximity.
23. The study finds that children age two to four, in 1974, had an
additional 0.12 to 0.19 years of education and 1.5 to 2.7 percent
higher wages for each new school built per 1,000 children (Duflo
2001). Other studies that find positive impacts of expanding school
infrastructure include Birdsall (1985) in urban Brazil, DeTray
(1988) and Lillard and Willis (1994) in Malaysia, Lavy (1996) in
Ghana, and Case and Deaton (1999) in South Africa.
24. Pritchett (2004a).
25. Kremer, Moulin, and Namunyu (2002).
26. In Brazil in 2001, the Bolsa Escola program was spending
almost $700 million a year and reaching 8.6 million school children,
one-third of all primary school children in Brazil. In Bangladesh, the
Food for Education budget in 2000 was $77 million, benefiting 2.2
million children, 13 percent of total school enrollment (Morley and
Coady 2003). In Mexico, according to government figures, by 2004,
Opportunidades was spending approximately $2.3 billion annually,
or about 1.5 percent of total expenditture, and reaching 5 million
households—almost 20 percent of all families in Mexico.
27. Morley and Coady (2003) and Schultz (2004).
28. There are some countries in which gender disparities require
attention to boys even for primary schooling (Mongolia) and quite
a few for higher levels of attainment (Brazil, Philippines).
29. Herz and Sperling (2004).
30. World Bank (2004d).
31. Pritchett (2004a).
32. A score of more than one standard deviation below the
OECD mean is considered poor performance.
33. See Hanushek (1986) and Hanushek (1996).
34. Wößmann (2000).

35. See Glewwe, Kremer, and Moulin (2002), Glewwe, Ilias, and
Kremer (2003), Glewwe and others (2004), Kremer, Miguel, and
Thornton (2004), Miguel and Kremer (2004).
36. It is also important to take account of household behavior in
response to changes in school inputs. Das, Dercon, Habrayimana,
and Krishnan (2004) find that household spending and (nonsalary)
cash grants to schools are close substitutes with no impact on learning from anticipated increases in school funds. Unanticipated
funds have significant learning impacts.
37. Hanushek and Wößman (2005).
38. Ladd (2002).
39. The analysis is not able to separate the effects of private
schools from the effects of the incentives for greater effort generated by the voucher policy. The distinction is important because
effort can be encouraged also by awarding scholarships to students
attending public schools, as we saw with the Balshaki program. See
Angrist and others (2002).
40. Chubb and Moe (1990).
41. See McEwan (2000) on Chile. Hoxby (2002) finds improvements from school choice from charter schools in Michigan and
Arizona; Holmes, DeSimone, and Rupp (2003) find that competition from school choice in North Carolina improved test scores significantly. Cullen, Jacob, and Levitt (2000) and Cullen, Jacob, and
Levitt (2003) found no impact from school choice in Chicago. See
also Witte (2000). Hoxby (2000) finds significant productivity gains
for a representative sample across the United States, while Rothstein (2005) uses the same data to find far more modest results.
42. McEwan and Carnoy (2000) and Hsieh and Urquiola
(2003).
43. Lindert (2004).
44. In Brazil, a 1997 reform set a minimum floor on education
spending in all regions, which led to an increase in primary school
enrollments from 55 to 85 percent in only six years (World Bank
2005f).
45. See Grindle (2004) and Fiszbein (2005) for examples in
Latin America.
46. World Bank (2003j).
47. Wößmann (2004) argues for giving decision-making
authority to those with the most relevant information and the lowest prospects for personal gain. He finds that student performance
improves with central control over the curriculum, budget, and
exams; delegation of process and personnel decisions to the school;
greater say for teachers in the selection of appropriate teaching
methods; regular scrutiny of students’ education performance; and
parental interest in education content. Competition from private
education institutions and the presence of teacher unions, on the
other hand, have adverse effects.
48. See World Bank (2003j) and Pritchett (2004a).
49. World Bank (2003j) for South Africa; Duan (2005).
50. World Bank (2004k).
51. World Bank (2004k).
52. Thailand’s Ministry of Public Health and World Bank
(2005).
53. Rawlings (2004).
54. See Barber, Bertozzi, and Gertler (2005) for Mexico; Das and
Hammer (2004) and Das and Hammer (2005) for India; Barber,
Gertler, and Harimurti (2005) for Indonesia; and Leonard and
Masatu (2005) for Tanzania.

Endnotes

55. World Bank (2003j).
56. Gertler and Barber (2004).
57. World Bank (2005f).
58. World Bank (2004h).
59. See World Bank (2001c) for Vietnam, World Bank (2005f)
for Cambodia, and Lewis (2002) on ECA countries.
60. Schieber (2005).
61. Gertler and Gruber (2002) find that while Indonesian families were able to self-insure reasonably well the costs of minor illness (up to 70 percent of the income loss associated with these),
they were able to insure only 38 percent of the income loss associated with illness that severely limits physical functioning.
62. Sekhri and Savedoff (2005).
63. Savedoff (2004).
64. Escobar (2005); Escobar and Panopoulou (2002); Castaneda
(2003).
65. Uganda’s use rates had dipped with the introduction of fees
in the 1990s, and although Uganda’s poor were formally exempt,
they often paid as much as other users. Deininger and Mpuga
(2004) estimate that the revenues lost to the health system from the
elimination of user fees in 2001 were smaller than the value of benefits from the reduction in foregone earnings, thanks to a healthier
population.
66. Thailand’s Ministry of Public Health and World Bank
(2005).
67. See Chaudhury, Hammer, and Murrugarra (2003) for Armenia, World Bank (2005f) for China, and Meesen and Van Damme
(2004) for Cambodia.
68. Socialist Republic of Vietnam and World Bank (2005).
69. Preker and Carrin (2004), Atim (1999).
70. Ranson and others (2005).
71. World Bank (2004k), World Bank (2003j), Banerjee, Deaton,
and Duflo (2004), Chaudhury and Hammer (2004) on Bangladesh.
72. World Bank (1997a).
73. The equity- and opportunity-enhancing role of social protection is the conceptual underpinning of the Bank’s social
protection sector strategy (World Bank 2001e, Holzmann and
Jorgensen 2001). Other sources are World Bank (2003f), Devereux
(2001), and Ravallion (2003).
74. Improved access to credit is reported for South Africa
(Ardington and Lund 1995) and Brazil (Schwarzer and Querino
2002), where the electronic banking card issued by the program
is often used as proof of creditworthiness. A significant share of
rural pension beneficiaries in Brazil report using part of the pension to purchase seeds and agricultural tools (Delgado and Cardoso Jr. 2000); others report investing in improvements in their
housing. Children and older people in beneficiary households
had better health in South Africa (Case 2001) and enrollment
rates of school-age children were higher among pension beneficiary households in both South Africa (Duflo 2003) and Brazil
(de Carvalho Filho 2000).
75. Kanbur (2005).
76. Lindert (2004).
77. Esping-Andersen (1990) argues, for example, that the success of the welfare system in continental Europe is based on its universality.
78. Alesina and Glaeser (2004) suggest that the different choices
depend on political and institutional factors, including the form of

241

democracy, the degree of ethnic homogeneity, and societal beliefs
about the causes of poverty.
79. This scheme covered about 10 percent of the unemployed
labor force, so it was usefully supplemented by workfare (World
Bank 2000b).
80. Coady, Grosh, and Hoddinott (2004).
81. See World Bank (2002a), World Bank (2003d), and World
Bank (2003e).
82. Social workers assess 52 separate factors grouped in 7
dimensions (identification, health, education, family dynamics,
housing, work, and income). See Chile’s Ministry of Planning
(2004); on Bangladesh, see Hashemi (2000).
83. On Argentina, see Jalan and Ravallion (1999); on the Maharashtra scheme, Ravallion (1991); on Bolivia, Newman, Jorgensen,
and Pradhan (1992).
84. The analysis showed a decline in poverty of 11 percent in the
PROGRESA communities and an increase in poverty in the control
group.
85. See Bourguignon, Ferreira, and Leite (2004) on Brazil’s Bolsa
Escola; see Rawlings (2004) and Morley and Coady (2003) on Mexico’s PROGRESA; and see World Bank (2005d) on Cambodia’s
lower secondary school program.
86. United Nations (2002).
87. See Holzmann and Hinz (2005) and World Bank (2001b).
88. Except for the implicit constraint imposed by a means-tested
scheme (Barrientos 2005).
89. Case and Deaton (1998).
90. Barrientos (2005), Rawlings (2004), De Ferranti and others
(2004).
91. See James (2000) for the general argument, van der Berg and
Brendenkamp (2002) on South Africa, and Paes de Barros and de
Carvalho (2004) on Brazil.
92. Lund (1999) and Atkinson (1995).
93. Hoogeveen and others (2004).
Chapter 8
1. See Haber (2001).
2. Hellman, Jones, and Kaufmann (2003).
3. The separation of powers between the executive, legislative,
and judicial arms of government aims to combat the dangers of
investing state power in one person or group, with each branch
holding the others accountable through differing “checks and balances.” This system also arguably maintains competition within
political institutions. See Haber (2001).
4. Asian Development Bank (2003), 24–25; Garapon (2003),
Russel and O’Brien (2001).
5. The Constitution of the Federal Democratic Republic of
Ethiopia (1995).
6. Tien Dung (2003), 8.
7. See Buscaglia and Dakolias (1999).
8. Ringera and others (2003).
9. See Langseth and Stolpe (2001), Dakolias and Thatchuk (2000).
10. For East Asia, see Asian Development Bank (2003).
11. See www.tsj.gov.ve for an explanation of the judicial portal.
12. The important distinction here is between campaigns that
impede judicial independence (targeting unpopular decisions) and
those that serve as a check on judicial misbehavior (exposing judicial corruption). See Asian Development Bank (2003), 8–9.

242

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

13. See World Bank (2004g), World Bank (2004c), and Hammergreen (2004).
14. It is important to note that a vast array of practices, systems,
and traditions have been defined as informal, traditional, or customary law, all existing within vastly differing contexts. The use of
“informal” is used in contrast to “formal” state systems and is not
meant to imply that such institutions are procedurally informal.
15. World Bank (2004j), 12.
16. Augustinus (2003).
17. See Centre for Housing Rights and Evictions (2004).
18. Mamdani (1996).
19. Fortman (1998).
20. See Buscaglia (1997) and Mattei (1998). See also Kranton
and Swamy (1999) and Pistor and Wellons (1999).
21. The sungusungu have avoided cooption by the state, and
their lack of knowledge of the law and people’s rights can lead to
abuse. See Mwaikusa (1995), 166–78, and Bukurura (1994).
22. Buscaglia (1997).
23. See Bush (1979) discussion on different African nations’
attempts at dynamic integrations.
24. Interestingly, a hundred years later, the 1927 Black Administration Act, which recognized a dual system of official law, formed
the basis for separating whites and Africans under apartheid. See
Van Niekerk (2001).
25. See Bennett (1999) for a discussion of this issue.
26. More than two-thirds of the European Court of Human
Rights’ case load between 1999 and 2003 was about violations of
the right to a fair trial, in particular, the excessive length of court
proceedings.
27. Between 2002 and 2004, 14,992 mediation cases were handled. See Malik (2005).
28. Feierstein and Moreira (2005).
29. Das (2004).
30. See Human Rights Watch (2000).
31. See Greenwood and others (1998), Gottfredson (1998),
Tremblay and Craig (1995), Waller, Welsh, and Sansfaçon (1999),
Waller and Sansfaçon (2000), World Bank (2003a).
32. World Bank (2003a), Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research (2000).
33. Graham and Bowling (1995), Shaw (2001).
34. Sloth-Nielsen and Gallinetti (2004), Bottoms (1990), Shaw
(2001).
35. See Harber (1999), Shaw (2004).
36. For further details see the project Web site at http://www
.bac.co.za/Web%20Content/Projects/Tiisa%20Thuto/Intro%20
Template%20for%20Tiisa%20Thuto.htm.
37. Penal Reform International assisted in establishing community service orders as alternative sentencing in Zimbabwe, Kenya,
Malawi, Uganda, Zambia, Burkina Faso, Congo, the Central African
Republic, and Mozambique.
38. Morrison, Ellsberg, and Bott (2004).
39. Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (2000).
40. Mtani (2002).
41. See Binswanger, Deininger, and Feder (1995). In India,
employment in agricultural wage labor (as opposed to selfemployed cultivation) is strongly correlated with poverty (Kijima
and Lanjouw 2004). Similarly, in Thailand, controlling for other

factors, tenancy increases the risk of poverty by nearly 30 percent
compared with being a landowner (World Bank 2001f).
42. Cardenas (2003), Conning and Robinson (2002).
43. Deininger (forthcoming).
44. Deininger and Olinto (2000) go further and suggest that
asset inequality is a causal determinant of growth performance.
45. Intermediaries were essentially tax collectors who received
land rights (in different forms, depending on the state) to “intermediate” the flow of resources between cultivators and the colonial
administration.
46. Appu (1997), 196.
47. Banerjee, Gertler, and Ghatak (2002). In West Bengal, efforts
in the late 1970s and 1980s to register sharecroppers and codify
their rights were backed by the ruling left parties (Appu 1997).
48. Building on spontaneous transactions in which either the
tenant or landlord buys out the other party’s interest, the government is considering ways to facilitate such buyouts in a more systematic and equitable fashion, thereby allowing one party to
obtain full ownership rights to the land (Nielsen and Hanstad
2004).
49. De Janvry and Sadoulet (2002).
50. Scott (1976), Gunning and others (2000), Deininger,
Hoogeveen, and Kinsey (2004), and Kinsey and Binswansger
(1993).
51. De Ferranti and others (2004).
52. See De Janvry and Sadoulet (1989), Jonakin (1996), Alston,
Libecap, and Mueller (1999).
53. See, for instance, Feder (1988) and Jacoby, Li, and Rozelle
(2002). Some studies report a doubling of investment and large
gains in land values (30–80 percent) with more secure tenure
(World Bank 2003i). To the extent that highly visible investments,
such as trees or fences, may be a means to establish landownership
rights, causality might run the other way (Brasselle, Gaspart, and
Platteau 2002). A recent study from Ethiopia demonstrates that
tenure insecurity indeed encourages investment in trees that have
little impact on productivity, while higher levels of tenure security
are unambiguously associated with productivity-enhancing investments (Deininger and others 2003).
54. De Ferranti and others (2004).
55. See Palmade (2005) on India. See Field (2003) on Peru.
56. Payne (2002), Durand-Lasserve (2003).
57. The three levels are as follows: (1) the right to somewhere to
live (either on the occupied plot or an alternative should relocation
be necessary); (2) a 30-year lease transferable in the event of death;
and (3) a 199-year lease effectively conferring ownership rights
upon survey and payment for the land.
58. World Bank (2003i).
59. Land regulation can also work against the urban poor.
When formal land development parameters (such as minimum
plot sizes, setbacks, and infrastructure servicing standards) are not
benchmarked against affordability levels for the majority of the
urban population, the poor are excluded from access to formal
landownership. Bertaud and Malpezzi (2001), Payne and Majale
(2004).
60. Gravois (2005)
61. Brasselle, Gaspart, and Platteau (2002).
62. World Bank (2003i)

Endnotes

63. Historically, distress sales have played a major role in the
accumulation of land by large manorial estates in China (Shih
1992) and in early Japan (Takeoshi 1967) and by large landlord
estates in Punjab (Hamid 1983). The abolition of communal tenure
and the associated loss of mechanisms for diversifying risk are
among the factors underlying the emergence of large estates in
Central America (Brockett 1984).
64. World Bank (2003i).
65. World Bank (2003i).
66. For Sudan, see Kevane (1996); for Colombia, Deininger,
Castagnini, and González (2004).
67. World Bank (2003i).
68. Long-term fixed rental contracts are the most efficient from
an economic perspective because they are compatible with incentives for effort and investment but various imperfections in markets make these rare (chapter 5).
69. In most states, lack of political support for the legislation
allowed landlords to subvert the intent of the laws. West Bengal is
an exception—a tenant registration campaign had strong political
support and succeeded in protecting tenants (Appu 1997).
70. De Janvry and Sadoulet (2002).
71. De Ferranti and others (2005).
72. World Bank (2003j).
73. See Van de Walle and Cratty (2004) on Vietnam. See Jalan
and Ravallion (2002) on China.
74. See Jalan and Ravallion (2003). The findings also indicate
that the health gains largely bypass children in poor families with
poorly educated mothers.
75. See Malmberg Calvo (1994) on African countries; Ilahi and
Grimard (2000) and Ilahi and Jafarey (1999) on Pakistan; World
Bank (2001g) on electricity and gas; and Khandker, Lavy, and
Filmer (1994) on Morocco.
76. Some 60 percent of the rural population in Africa lives in
areas of good agricultural potential, but with poor market
access, while only 23 percent live in areas of good agricultural
potential and good market access. The remainder have both
poor market access and poor agricultural potential (Byerlee and
Kelley 2004).
77. Between 1970 and 1998, roads (in km) increased by 8.3 percent per year (World Bank 2005c).
78. World Bank (2005c).
79. De Ferranti and others (2004).
80. Economies from large production and delivery have diminished in some activities, especially telecommunications and power
generation. And regulatory innovation made unbundling possible.
Unbundling promoted competition by separating activities in
which economies of scale are important (for example, electricity
transmission and distribution) from activities in which it is less so
(electricity generation). See World Bank (1994) and World Bank
(2004l).
81. World Bank (2004f) and chapter 10.
82. According to the Latinobarómetro, the proportion of
respondents who said they thought privatization had benefited
their country dropped steadily from 46 percent in 1998 to 21 percent in 2003 (Lagos 2005).
83. Estache, Foster, and Wodon (2001).
84. Estache, Foster, and Wodon (2001).

243

85. Lifeline tariffs mean that rates increase after surpassing a
certain consumption threshold (the level deemed necessary to meet
basic household needs).
86. Wodon, Ajwad, and Siaens (2005) and Estache, Foster, and
Wodon (2001).
87. Estache, Foster, and Wodon (2001).
88. Kariuki and Schwartz (2005).
89. Gulyani, Talukdar, and Kariuki (2005).
90. Estache (2003).
91. Irwin and Yamamoto (2004).
92. See Chisari, Estache, and Romero (1999) and Guasch
(2003).
Focus 5 on taxation
1. Bird, Martínez-Vazquez, and Torgler (2004).
2. Bird, Martínez-Vazquez, and Torgler (2004).
3. Moore (2001); Davis, Ossowski, and Fedelino (2003).
4. Moore (2001).
5. Gupta and others (2003).
6. De Ferranti and others (2004).
7. Bird and Slack (2002).
8. Rudnik and Gordon (1996).
9. Boskin (1977).
10. Rajan and Zingales (2003).
11. Prud’Homme (1990).
12. Bird (1991).
Chapter 9
1. Smith (1776), 128.
2. See Tilly (1998) on opportunity hoarding by middle groups.
3. World Bank (2004b), Perotti and Volpin (2004).
4. See De Soto (2000), Glaeser, Sheinkman, and Shleifer (2003),
and Haber, Noel, and Razo (2003).
5. See Morck, Wolfenzon, and Yeung (2004) and Claessens,
Djankov, and Lang (2000).
6. Morck, Stangeland, and Yeung (2000), Morck and Yeung
(2004).
7. On developed countries, see Rajan and Zingales (2003).
8. Halac and Schmukler (2003) and Perotti and Feijen (2005).
9. See Velasco (1988), Valdés-Prieto (1992), Haber and Kantor
(2004), Claessens and Pohl (1994), and Perotti (2002). Also see box
9.2 on Russia.
10. Haggard, Lim, and Kim (2003), 87. See also Siegel (2003) for
a discussion of the importance of political connectedness in the
Republic of Korea.
11. Feijen and Perotti (2005); Claessens and Perotti (2005).
12. Bertrand, Schoar, and Thesmar (2004).
13. Braverman and Guasch (1986).
14. See discussion in Armendáriz de Aghion and Morduch
(2005), Pulley (1989), and Meyer and Nagarajan (2000) for the
poor repayment performance, and Burgess and Pande (2004) for
positive impacts on the poor of social banking.
15. Honohan (2004).
16. The discussion of the Czech and Polish stock markets builds
on Glaeser, Johnson, and Shleifer (2001).
17. Rajan and Zingales (2003), 159.
18. Guiso, Sapienza, and Zingales (2004).

244

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

19. Roland and Verdier (2000) and Claessens and Perotti (2005).
20. See, for example, Diamond (1981), Blanchard (2004),
Bertola (2003), Agell (2002), among others.
21. For discussions of India’s labor market regulation and its
adverse effects, see Stern (2002), Hasan, Mitra, and Ramaswamy
(2003), and Besley and Burgess (2004). For example, industrial sector legislation requires employers with more than 100 workers to
seek prior approval of the government before dismissing workers.
This has earned the country a 90 out of 100 on the World Bank’s
Doing Business in 2005 “difficulty in firing index” (World Bank
(2005e).
22. See Kingdon, Sandefur, and Teal (2005). Strict enforcement
of labor market regulations in South Africa—even for small
firms—can also contribute to unemployment by inhibiting the
development of informal sector firms.
23. In 1997–98, 83 percent of nonagricultural employment in
India was informal (ILO 2002).
24. Kugler (2004).
25. Maloney (1999), Maloney and Nuñez Mendez (2004).
26. Chen, Vanek, and Carr (2004).
27. ILO (2002).
28. Besley and Burgess (2004).
29. The unemployment figure relies on the broad definition of the
labor force (employed + searching and nonsearching unemployed).
Using the strict labor force measure (employed + searching unemployed), the unemployment rate was 32 percent in 2003. Data is
from the 2003 Labor Force Survey cited by Kingdon, Sandefur, and
Teal (2005). “The ratio of non-agricultural informal sector employment to unemployment is 0.7 in South Africa but 4.7 in SubSaharan Africa, 7.0 in Latin America and ll.9 in Asia.” (Kingdon,
Sandefur, and Teal 2005).
30. Estimates suggest high levels of unemployment (20 to 30
percent for urban males), but there are measurement problems that
bias the estimates upward.
31. Rodrik (1999b).
32. Galli and Kucera (2004).
33. The unions then played a critical role pushing the social and
economic agenda toward more welfare-oriented policies (Fishman
1990, Boix 1998, and Boix 2005).
34. Some might argue that the Scandinavian systems are not
easily replicable, on the grounds that they rely on extraordinary levels of trust and social capital. In other words, the political conditions necessary to obtain Scandinavian-type social democracy and
“solidaristic bargaining” might be difficult to achieve in developing
countries, despite their potential economic benefits. See Moene and
Wallerstein (2002). But this was not always the case; high levels of
trust emerged from widespread conflict in the mid-1930s.
35. Nickell (1997).
36. Boeri (2002); Blunch and Verner (2004); Bover, Bentolila,
and Arellano (2002); Chaykowsky and Slotsve (2002); Panagides
and Patrinos (1994).
37. Bertola, Blau, and Kahn (2001).
38. Kingdon, Sandefur, and Teal (2005).
39. Damiani (2003).
40. See Neumark, Cunningham, and Siga (forthcoming) for a
discussion of how Brazil’s minimum wage does not seem to have
lifted family incomes at the lower points of the income distribution. In Colombia, Arango and Pachón (2004) find that “the

minimum wage ends up being regressive, improving the living
conditions of families in the middle and the upper part of the
income distribution with net losses for those at the bottom.”
41. See the ILO Web site (www.ilo.org) for a description of labor
standards. As an example of the range of policy choices for the specific case of child labor, see ILO (2003) and Burra (1995).
42. See World Bank (2004a). Almost 80 percent of Cambodia’s
overseas buyers rated labor standards as one of their top priorities
in sourcing decisions. They also stated that standards have had positive effects on accident rates, workplace productivity, product
quality, turnover, and absenteeism.
43. López (2004).
44. There are two ways to measure outcomes: ex ante simulation using CGE (Computable General Equilibrium) analysis and
ex post econometric analysis relying on household survey data. In
the absence of such analysis, it is hard to predict the impact of
trade reform on poverty or equity. A number of studies related to
the themes of this section can be found in Hertel and Winters
(2005).
45. Schiff and Valdés (1998), 30.
46. The CGE analysis generates price and wage changes that
include the direct price effect of trade policy changes and
“second-round” indirect effects on factor returns and nontraded
goods prices. Certain dynamic gains from greater trade openness
are not captured. For instance, trade could bring new technologies and innovations that boost long-term productivity (Ravallion 2004b).
47. Winters, McCulloch, and McKay (2004); Mundlak and Larson (1992); Lloyd and others (1999); McKay, Morrissey, and Vaillant (1997).
48. Minot and Goletti (1998).
49. See Bates (1981) and chapter 6 for Ghana, and CUTS (Consumer Unity and Trust Society) (2003) for Malawi.
50. McMillan, Rodrik, and Horn Welsh (2002).
51. See Hanson (2003). Other research attributes some of the
benefits of trade reform in border states to higher levels of human
and industrial capital and better communications and transportation infrastructure (Chiquiar 2005).
52. See Nicita (2004) on Mexico and Goetz (1992); International Fund for Agricultural Development (2001); Minot (1998);
and Thomas and others (1999) on Indonesia.
53. Arulpragasam and others (2004), World Bank (2003c).
54. Annamalai and Rao (2003), India Today (2004).
55. Palmade (2005).
56. Carruthers, Bajpai, and Hummels (2004).
57. Wood (1997).
58. See Wood (1997), Sánchez-Páramo and Schady (2003), and
De Ferranti and others (2004).
59. Topalova (2004).
60. World Bank (2004i), Cord and Wodon (2001).
61. McMillan, Rodrik, and Horn Welsh (2002).
62. For a brief survey of the different generations of models of
crises, see Krugman (1999). For selected references see Aghion,
Bacchetta, and Banerjee (2001), Chang and Velasco (2001), Krugman (1979), Obstfeld (1996), and Velasco (1996).
63. Acemoglu and others (2003).
64. On Bolivia, see Morales and Sachs (1998); on Israel, see
Bruno (1993).

Endnotes

65. Blejer and Guerrero (1990).
66. Ferreira and Litchfield (2001).
67. See also Diwan (2002).
68. Rodrik (1999a).
69. Honohan and Klingebiel (2000).
70. Halac and Schmukler (2003).
71. See De Ferranti and others (2004), Lanjouw and Ravallion
(2005).
72. Bruno (1993).
73. Perry (2003).
74. Robinson (2003); see focus 5 on taxation for discussion of
social-fiscal contracts.
Focus 6 on regional inequality
1. Massey (2001).
2. Shepherd and others (2005); Massey (2001).
3. Psacharopoulos and Patrinos (1994); Hall and Patrinos (2005);
Vakis (2003).
4. de Haan (2005).
5. Galiani and Schargrodsky (2002).
6. Manor (1999).
7. Fox (1990).
8. Ferreira (2004).
9. Funck and Pizzati (2003).
10. Shepherd and others (2005); Willanakuy (2004).
11. Ross (2005).
Chapter 10
1. Pogge (2004).
2. Chauvet and Collier (2004) estimated that the cost, to a country and its neighbors, of a country descending into the status of
low-income country under stress (LICUS), as defined by the World
Bank, is in present value terms approximately $80 billion, and that
this cost was mostly borne by neighbors.
3. These conclusions are consistent with the findings of the
World Commission on the Social Dimensions of Globalization
(2004).
4. Goldin and others (forthcoming).
5. That is, 4 percent not 4 percentage points.
6. Stark and Bloom (1985); Cox, Eser, and Jimenez (1998).
7. The assumption that income after migration is higher than
income forgone does not always hold. Adams finds that income
levels would have been higher without migration in three Egyptian
villages and would have been the same in four rural districts in
Pakistan (Adams 1989, 1992). Barham and Boucher (1998) find
essentially similar results for three neighborhoods in Nicaragua.
On the potential impact on income inequality, Mendola (2004)
finds that remittances from members of households with large
land holdings in rural Bangladesh are correlated with adoption of
new agricultural technologies, thus leading to higher productivity
for already better-off households and a possible increase in
inequality.
8. McKenzie and Rapoport (2004).
9. A number of studies by the World Bank Research Program on
International Migration and by others document the positive
impact of remittances. See Taylor (1992), Taylor and Wyatt (1996),
and Yang (2004) for examples of easing of credit constraints.
Adams (2005) finds that Guatemalan households receiving remit-

245

tances spend significantly more on housing, which has positive
indirect effects on wages, business, and employment opportunities.
Yang (2004) finds that Filipino households receiving higher remittances, because of positive exchange rate shocks, had greater child
schooling, reduced child labor, more hours worked in self-employment, and greater entry into relatively capital-intensive enterprises.
10. Ehrenreich and Hochschild (2003).
11. On the phenomenon of brain waste, see Mattoo, Neagu, and
Ozden (2005); on brain drain, see Faini (2003) and Schiff (2005).
12. Mode IV is one of four interrelated modes of supply of services across borders considered in the GATS.
13. As of May 2004, only 25 countries, mostly migrant-sending,
had ratified the convention.
14. An interesting example of innovative partnerships to facilitate remittance flows is the New Alliance Task Force launched by
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and Mexican
Consulate of Chicago, which aims to improve access to the U.S.
banking system, provide financial education, and develop products
with remittance features.
15. Smuggling and trafficking are a multibillion dollar industry
increasingly run by criminal networks. The United Nations International Organization for Migration (2000) estimated that up to 2
million women and children are trafficked globally every year.
16. One option to address these losses is to lock development
assistance to poor countries hurt by specific measures into the
WTO agreements on these measures; see Ricupero (2005).
17. The current tariff structure could change through both
bilateral and multilateral negotiations. For instance, if the Central
American Free Trade Agreement is approved by the U.S. Congress,
most textiles from countries such as Honduras and El Salvador
would benefit from tariff-free entry into the United States, now the
case for some items under existing unilateral preferences.
18. See for example Birdsall (2002).
19. Price-fixing by international cartels brings significant losses
to developed- and developing-country consumers alike. Analysis of
six high-profile cartels uncovered in the 1990s (vitamins, citric
acid, bromine, seamless steel tubes, graphite electrodes, lysine)
indicated that the estimated price increases ranged from 10 percent
for stainless steel tubes to 45 percent for graphite electrodes, and
that cumulative overcharges to developing countries over the life of
the six cartels ranged from $3 billion to $7 billion, depending on
the calculation method. See Connor (2001), OECD (2000), and
World Bank (2003b).
20. Ronchi (2001) and Ronchi (2002).
21. Lewin, Giovannucci, and Varangis (2004).
22. For more information, see www.ethicaltrade.org and
www.fairlabor.org.
23. Fung, O’Rourke, and Sabel (2001).
24. “Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights,”
Annex 1C of the Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organization.
25. Lanjouw and Jack (2004).
26. Sell (2003).
27. Fink and Reichenmuller (2005).
28. These are the agreements between the United States and
Morocco (2004), Bahrain (2004), and the Dominican RepublicCAFTA (signed but not yet approved by the U.S. Congress).
29. Claessens and Underhill (2004).

246

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

30. World Bank (2005g) and UNCTAD (2004).
31. See Claessens, Underhill, and Zhang (2003) and Bhattacharya and Griffith-Jones (2004).
32. We discuss representation on the World Bank and IMF
Boards below.
33. O’Sullivan and Christensen (2005).
34. Moore (2004).
35. McGillivray (2005).
36. Updating the results for 2001 led to similar results (Levin
2005).
37. The findings of Burnside and Dollar (2000) and Collier and
Dollar (2001), Collier and Dollar (2002) are not robust to changes
in functional form, the specification of the interaction terms, and
sample selection; see Hansen and Tarp (2001), Easterly, Levine, and
Roodman (2004), and Dalgaard, Hansen, and Tarp (2004). These
studies also point to the importance of climate, among other factors.
38. Levin and Dollar (2005).
39. These figures include official development assistance
(ODA) provided by countries that are members of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). Non-DAC
countries also provide ODA; the largest non-DAC donors are
Saudi Arabia (providing $2.4 billion in 2003 out of a total of $3.4
billion), the Republic of Korea ($366 million), the United Arab
Emirates ($188 million), and Kuwait ($133 million).
40. Eighteen countries qualify immediately, and as many as
another 20 could qualify over time. See the G-8 Finance Ministers’
Conclusions on Development, London, June 10–11, 2005 (G-8
Finance Ministers, 2005) at http://www.hm-treasury.gov.uk/otherhmtsites/g7/news/conclusions_on_development_110605.cfm.
The G8 Finance Ministers’ agreement was confirmed at the July
2005 G8 Gleneagles Summit.

41. See the G-24 Communique, available at http://web.
worldbank.org/WBSITE/EXTERNAL/DEVCOMMEXT/0,,
menuPK:60001663~pagePK:64001141~piPK:64034162~
theSitePK:277473,00.html.
Focus 7 on drug access
1. See Lanjouw and MacLeod (2005) and World Health Organization (2004).
2. See Kremer and Glennester (2004) and Barder (2004).
3. See Masters (2005).
4. See an interesting article by Maurer, Sali, and Rai (2004) on
how an open-source approach could work.
5. World Health Organization (2004).
6. Based on data from IMS HEALTH Global Services at http://
www.ims-global.com.
7. This proposal is detailed in Lanjouw (2002).
8. For legal details see Lanjouw (2002).
Epilogue
1. This is evident from the very title of Bauer (1971).
2. World Bank (1980).
3. World Bank (1990).
4. World Bank (1997c).
5. World Bank (2002b).
6. World Bank (2001h).
7. See Stern, Dethier, and Rogers (2005) for a detailed treatment
of this synthesis.
8. World Bank (2005h).
9. World Bank (2003j).

References

The word “Processed” describes informally reproduced works that
may not be commonly available through libraries.
Acemoglu, Daron, Simon Johnson, and James Robinson. 2001.
“The Colonial Origins of Comparative Development: An Empirical Investigation.” American Economic Review 91(5):1369–401.
————. 2002a. “Reversal of Fortune: Geography and Institutions
in the Making of the Modern World Income Distribution.”
Quarterly Journal of Economics 117(4):1231–94.
————. 2002b. “The Rise of Europe: Atlantic Trade, Institutional
Change, and Economic Growth.” Cambridge, MA: National
Bureau of Economic Research Working Paper Series 9378.
————. 2004. “Institutions as a Fundamental Cause of Long-run
Growth.” In Philippe Aghion and Steven Durlauf, (ed.), Handbook of Economic Growth. Amsterdam: North Holland.
Acemoglu, Daron, Simon Johnson, James Robinson, and Yunyong
Thaicharoen. 2003. “Institutional Causes, Macroeconomics
Symptoms: Volatility, Crises and Growth.” Journal of Monetary
Economics 50(1):49–131.
Acemoglu, Daron, and James Robinson. 2000. “Why Did the West
Extend the Franchise? Growth, Inequality and Democracy in Historical Perspective.” Quarterly Journal of Economics 115(4):1167–99.
————. 2005. Economic Origins of Dictatorship and Democracy.
Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge University Press.
Adams, Martin. 2000. Breaking Ground: Development Aid for Land
Reform. London: Overseas Development Institute.
Adams, Richard. 1989. “Workers’ Remittances and Inequalities in
Rural Egypt.” Economic Development and Cultural Change
38(1):45–71.
————. 1992. “The Impact of Migration and Remittances on
Inequality in Rural Pakistan.” Pakistan Development Review
31(4):1189–203.
Adams, Richard H. Jr. 2005. “Remittances, Household Expenditures
and Investment in Guatemala.” Washington, DC: World Bank
Policy Research Working Paper Series 3532. Available on line at
http://econ.worldbank.org/resource.php?type=5.
Agarwal, Bina. 1994. A Field of One’s Own: Gender and Land Rights
in South Asia. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
Agell, Jonas. 2002. “On the Determinants of Labor Market Institutions: Rent Seeking vs. Social Insurance.” German Economic
Review 3(2):107–35.
Aghion, Philippe, Philippe Bacchetta, and Abhijit Banerjee. 2001.
“A Corporate Balance Sheet Approach to Currency Crises.” London: Centre for Economic Policy Research 3092.

Alatas, Vivi, and François Bourguignon. 2004. “The Evolution of
Income Distribution during Indonesia’s Fast Growth, 1980–96.”
In François Bourguignon, Francisco Ferreira, and Nora Lustig,
(ed.), The Microeconomics of Income Distribution Dynamics: In
East Asia and Latin America. New York: Oxford University Press
for the World Bank.
Aleem, Irfan. 1990. “Imperfect Information, Screening, and the
Costs of Informal Lending: A Study of Rural Credit Market in
Pakistan.” World Bank Economic Review 4(3):329–49.
Alesina, Alberto, Rafael Di Tella, and Robert MacCulloch. 2004.
“Inequality and Happiness: Are Europeans and Americans Different?” Journal of Public Economics 88(n9-10):2009–42.
Alesina, Alberto, and Edward Glaeser. 2004. Fighting Poverty in the
US and Europe: A World of Difference. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Alland, Denis, and Stéphanie Rials. 2003. Dictionnaire de la Culture
Juridique. Paris: Presses Universitaires de France.
Alston, Lee J., Gary D. Libecap, and Bernardo Mueller. 1999. “A
Model of Rural Conflict: Violence and Land Reform Policy in
Brazil.” Environment and Development Economics 4(2):135–60.
Andersson, Kim, and Will Martin. 2004. “Agricultural Trade
Reform and the Doha Development Agenda.” Paper presented at
the International Trade Brown Bag Lunch Seminar. December
15. Washington, DC.
Andersson, Martin, and Christer Gunnarsson. 2005. “Egalitarianism in the Process of Modern Economic Growth: The Case of
Sweden.” Background paper for the WDR 2006.
Angrist, Joshua D., Eric Bettinger, Eric Bloom, Elizabeth M. King,
and Michael Kremer. 2002. “Vouchers for Private Schooling in
Colombia: Evidence from a Randomized Natural Experiment.”
American Economic Review 92(5):1535–58.
Annabi, Nabil, Bazlul Khandkher, Selim Raiham, John Cockburn,
and Bernard Decaluwe. Forthcoming. “The Impact of Trade
Reforms on Bangladesh.” In Thomas W. Hertel and L. Alan Winters (ed.) Putting Development Back into the Doha Agenda: Poverty
Impacts of a WTO Agreement. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Annamalai, Kuttayan, and Sachin Rao. 2003. What Works: ITC’s EChoupal and Profitable Rural Transformation. University of
Michigan: World Resource Institute Digital Dividend. Available
on line at http://povertyprofit.wri.org/.
Appadurai, Arjun. 2004. “The Capacity to Aspire: Culture and the
Terms of Recognition.” In Vijayendra Rao and Michael Walton,
(ed.), Culture and Public Action. Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press.
247

248

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Appu, P. S. 1997. Land Reforms in India: A Survey of Policy, Legislation and Implementation. New Delhi: Vikas Publishing House.
Arango, Carlos A., and Angelica Pachón. 2004. “Minimum Wages in
Colombia: Holding the Middle with a Bite on the Poor.” Colombia:
Banco de la República (The Colombian Central Bank) 280. Available on line at http://www.banrep.gov.co/docum/ftp/borra280.pdf.
Araujo, Caridad, Francisco Ferreira, and Norbert Schady. 2004. “Is
the World Becoming More Unequal? Changes in the World
Distribution of Schooling.” World Bank. Washington, DC.
Processed.
Ardington, E., and F. Lund. 1995. “Pensions and Development:
Social Security as Complementary to Programmes of Reconstruction and Development.” Development Southern Africa
12(4):557–77.
Arellano, Manuel, and Stephen Bond. 1991. “Some Tests of Specification for Panel Data: Monte Carlo Evidence and an Application to Employment Equations.” Review of Economic Studies
58(2):277–97.
Armendáriz de Aghion, Beatriz, and Jonathan Morduch. 2005. The
Economics of Microfinance. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Arnaud, André-Jean, eds. 1993. Dictionnaire Encyclopédique de
Théory et de Sociologie du Droit (2nd edition). Paris: Librairie
Générale de Droit et de Jurisprudence.
Arulpragasam, Jehan, Francesco Goletti, Tamar Manuelyan Atinc,
and Vera Songwe. 2004. “Trade in Sectors Important to the Poor:
Rice in Cambodia and Vietnam and Cashmere in Mongolia.” In
Kathie Krumm and Homi Kharas, (ed.), East Asia Integrates.
Washington, DC: Oxford University Press for the World Bank.
Asian Development Bank. 2003. Judicial Independence Overview
and Country-Level Summaries. Manila, Philippines: Asian
Development Bank. Available on line at http://www.adb.org/
Documents/Events/2003/RETA5987/Final_Overview_Report.pdf.
Assunção, Juliano Junqueira, and Humberto Moreira. 2001.
“Towards a Truthful Land Taxation Mechanism in Brazil.” Paper
presented at the LACEA. October 18. Montevideo, Uruguay.
Atim, C. 1999. “Social Movements and Health Insurance: A Critical
Evaluation of Voluntary, Non-profit Insurance Schemes with
Case Studies from Ghana and Cameroon.” Social Science and
Medicine 48(7):881–896.
Atkinson, A. B. 1995. Incomes and the Welfare State: Essays on
Britain and Europe. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Atkinson, Anthony B. 2003. “Income Inequality in OECD Countries: Data and Explanations.” Munich: CESifo Working Paper
Series 881.
Atkinson, Anthony B., and Andrea Brandolini. 2001. “Promise and
Pitfalls in the Use of ‘Secondary’ Data-sets: Income Inequality in
OECD Countries as a Case Study.” Journal of Economic Literature
39(3):771–99.
————. 2004. “Global World Inequality: Absolute, Relative or
Intermediate?” Paper presented at the 28th General Conference
of the International Association for Research on Income and
Wealth. August 22. Cork, Ireland.
Atkinson, Anthony B., A. Maynard, and Christopher Trinder. 1983.
Parents and Children: Incomes in Two Generations. London:
Heinemann.

Atkinson, Anthony B., and Joseph E. Stiglitz. 1980. Lectures on Public Economics. London: McGraw-Hill International Editions.
Attanasio, Orazio P., and A. Marcos Vera-Hernandez. 2004.
“Medium and Long Run Effects of Nutrition and Child Care:
Evaluation of a Community Nursery Programme in Rural
Colombia.” London: Institute for Fiscal Studies Working Paper
EWP04/06. Available on line at http://www.ifs.org.uk/
publications.php?publication_id=3146.
Augustinus, Clarisa. 2003. “Comparative Analysis of Land Administration Systems: African Review with Special Reference to
Mozambique, Uganda, Namibia, Ghana, South Africa.” World
Bank. Washington, DC. Processed.
Australian Bureau of Statistics. 2003. Deaths in Australia 2002. Canberra: Australian Bureau of Statistics.
Ayadi, Mohamed, Ghazi Boulila, Mohamed Lahouel, and Philippe
Montigny. 2004. Pro-Poor Growth in Tunisia. Paris: International
Development and Strategies. Available on line at http://www.
kfw-entwicklungsbank.de/EN/Fachinformationen/Pro-PoorGr77/
oppgtunisia.pdf.
Azam, Jean-Paul, Magueye Dia, Clarence Tsimpo, and Quentin
Wodon. 2005. “Has Growth in Senegal after the 1994 Devaluation Been Pro-Poor?” World Bank. Washington, DC. Processed.
Baffes, John. 2004. “Cotton: Market Setting, Trade Policies and
Issues.” Washington, DC: World Bank Policy Research Working
Paper Series 3218.
Baiocchi, Gianpolo, Shubham Chaudhuri, and Patrick Heller. 2005.
“Evaluating Empowerment: Participatory Budgeting in Brazil.”
World Bank. Washington, DC. Available on line at http://
siteresources.worldbank.org/INTEMPOWERMENT/Resources/
Brazilpres.pdf. Processed.
Bakewell, Peter J. 1984. Miners of the Red Mountain. Albuquerque:
University of New Mexico Press.
Balat, Jorge, and Guido Porto. Forthcoming. “The WTO Doha
Round, Cotton Sector Dynamics and Poverty Trends in Zambia.”
In Thomas W. Hertel and L. Alan Winters (ed.) Putting Development Back into the Doha Agenda: Poverty Impacts of a WTO
Agreement. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Banerjee, Abhijit. 2000. “Land Reforms: Prospects and Incentives.”
In Boris Pleskovic and Joseph E. Stiglitz, (ed.), Annual World
Bank Conference on Development Economics, 1999. Washington,
DC: World Bank.
Banerjee, Abhijit, Shawn Cole, Esther Duflo, and Leigh Linden.
2004. “Remedying Education: Evidence from Two Randomized
Experiments in India.” Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Cambridge, MA. Available on line at http://econ-www.mit.edu/
faculty/download_pdf.php?id=677. Processed.
Banerjee, Abhijit, Angus Deaton, and Esther Duflo. 2004. “Health
Care Delivery in Rural Rajasthan.” Cambridge, MA: Poverty
Action Lab Papers 7.
Banerjee, Abhijit, and Esther Duflo. 2003. “Inequality and Growth:
What Can the Data Say?” Journal of Economic Growth
8(3):267–99.
————. 2004a. “Do Firms Want to Borrow More? Testing Credit
Constraints using a Direct Lending Program.” London: CEPR
Working Paper Series 4681.

References

————. 2004b. “Growth Theory Through the Lens of Development Economics.” Cambridge, MA: MIT Department of Economic Working Papers 05-01.
Banerjee, Abhijit, Esther Duflo, and Kaivan Munshi. 2003. “The
Miss(allocation) of Capital.” Journal of the European Economic
Association 1(2-3):484–94.
Banerjee, Abhijit, Paul Gertler, and Maitreesh Ghatak. 2002.
“Empowerment and Efficiency: Tenancy Reform in West Bengal.” Journal of Political Economy 110(2):239–80.
Banerjee, Abhijit, Dilip Mookherjee, Kaivan Munshi, and Debraj
Ray. 2001. “Inequality, Control Rights, and Rent Seeking: Sugar
Cooperatives in Maharashtra.” Journal of Political Economy
109(1):138–90.
Banerjee, Abhijit, and Kaivan Munshi. 2004. “How Efficiently is
Capital Allocated? Evidence from the Knitted Garment Industry
in Tirupur.” Review of Economic Studies 71(1):19–42.
Banerjee, Abhijit, and Andrew Newman. 1991. “Risk-Bearing and
the Theory of Income Distribution.” Review of Economic Studies
58(2):211–35.
Banerjee, Abhijit, and Thomas Piketty. 2003. “Top Indian Incomes:
1956–2000.” Cambridge, MA: MIT Department of Economics
Working Paper 03-32.
Barber, Catherine. 2003. “Making Migration ‘DevelopmentFriendly’.” Kennedy School of Government Master’s thesis. Harvard University.
Barber, Sarah, Stefan Bertozzi, and Paul Gertler. 2005. “Variations
in Prenatal Care Quality in Mexico Mirror Health Inequalities.”
World Bank. Washington, DC. Processed.
Barber, Sarah, Paul J. Gertler, and Pandu Harimurti. 2005. “Promoting High Quality Care in Indonesia: Roles for Public and Private Ambulatory Care Providers.” World Bank. Washington, DC.
Processed.
Bardasi, Elena, and Quentin Wodon. 2004. “Comparing Subsidies
for Access or Consumption in Basic Infrastructure: A Simple
Approach.” World Bank. Washington, DC. Processed.
Barder, Owen. 2004. “Making Markets for Vaccines: A Practical
Plan.” Washington, DC: Center for Global Development
Brief 1. Available on line at http://www.cgdev.org/Publications/
?PubID=173.
Barham, Bradford, and Stephen Boucher. 1998. “Migration, Remittances and Inequality: Estimating the Net Effect of Migration
on Income Distribution.” Journal of Development Economics
55(2):307–31.
Barrientos, Armando. 2005. “Cash Transfers for Older People
Reduce Poverty and Inequality.” Background paper for the WDR
2006.
Barro, Robert J. 2000. “Inequality and Growth in a Panel of Countries.” Journal of Economic Growth 5(1):5–32.
Barro, Robert J., and Jong-Wha Lee. 2001. “International Data on
Educational Attainment: Updates and Implications.” Oxford Economic Papers 53(3):541–63.
Barron, Patrick, Rachel Diprose, and Michael Woolcock. 2005.
“Local Conflict and Community Development in Indonesia:
Assessing the Impact of the Kecamatan Development Program.”
World Bank Jakarta Regional Office. Jakarta. Processed.

249

Barron, Patrick, Claire Q. Smith, and Michael Woolcock. 2004.
“Understanding Local Level Conflict in Developing Countries:
Theory, Evidence and Implications for Indonesia.” Washington,
DC: World Bank, Social Development Papers, Conflict Prevention & Reconstruction 19.
Basta, S., D. Soekirman, and N. Scrimshaw. 1979. “Iron Deficiency
Anemia and the Productivity of Adult Males in Indonesia.”
American Journal of Clinical Nutrition 32(4):916–25.
Bates, Robert H. 1981. Markets and States in Tropical Africa: The
Political Basis of Agricultural Policies. Berkeley, CA: University of
California Press.
————. 1989. Beyond the Miracle of the Market. Cambridge, NY:
Cambridge University Press.
Bauer, Peter. 1971. Dissent on Development: Studies and Debates in
Development Economics. London: Weidenfeld and Nicolson.
Behrman, Jere, Nancy Birdsall, and Miquel Székely. 2003.
“Economic Policy and Wage Differentials in Latin America.”
Washington, DC: Center for Global Development Working
Paper 29. Available on line at http://www.cgdev.org/Publications/
?PubID=29.
Bénabou, Roland. 1996. “Inequality and Growth.” In Ben Bernanke
and Julio J. Rotemberg, (ed.), National Bureau of Economic
Research Macroeconomics Annual 1996. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
————. 2000. “Unequal Societies: Income Distribution and the
Social Contract.” American Economic Review 90(1):96–129.
Bennett, T. W. 1999. Human Rights and African Customary Law
under the South African Constitution. Cape Town: Juta and Co.
Bentham [1781], Jeremy. 2000. The Principles of Morals and Legislation. Kitchener, Ontario Canada: Batoche Books.
Berry, R. Albert, and William Cline. 1979. Agrarian Structure and
Productivity in Developing Countries: A Study Prepared for the
International Labour Office within the Framework of the World
Employment Program. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University
Press.
Bertaud, Alain, and Stephen Malpezzi. 2001. “Measuring the Costs
and Benefits of Urban Land Use Regulation: A Simple Model
with an Application to Malaysia.” Journal of Housing Economics
10(3):393–418.
Bertola, Giuseppe. 1990. “Job Security, Employment and Wages.”
European Economic Review 34(4):851–86.
————. 2003. “Distribution, Efficiency, and Labor Market Regulation in Theory.” Paper presented at the Séptima Conferencia
Anual del Banco Central de Chile: Mercado Laboral e Instituciones. November 6. Santiago de Chile.
Bertola, Giuseppe, Francine D. Blau, and Lawrence M. Kahn. 2001.
“Comparative Analysis of Labor Market Outcomes: Lessons for
the US from International Long-run Evidence.” Cambridge, MA:
National Bureau of Economic Research Working Paper Series
8526.
Bertrand, Marianne, and Sendhil Mullanaithan. 2003. “Are Emily
and Greg more Employable than Lakisha and Jamal?: A Field
Experiment on Labor Market Discrimination.” Cambridge, MA:
National Bureau of Economic Research Working Paper Series
9873.

250

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Bertrand, Marianne, Antoinette S. Schoar, and David Thesmar.
2004. “Banking Deregulation and Industry Structure: Evidence
from the French Banking Reforms of 1985.” London: CEPR Discussion Papers 4488.
Besley, Timothy, and Robin Burgess. 2000. “Land Reform, Poverty
Reduction, and Growth: Evidence from India.” Quarterly Journal
of Economics 115(2):389–430.
————. 2004. “Can Labor Regulation Hinder Economic Performance? Evidence from India.” Quarterly Journal of Economics
119(1):91–134.
Besley, Timothy, Rohini Pande, Lupin Rahman, and Vijayendra
Rao. 2004. “The Politics of Public Good Provision: Evidence
From Indian Local Governments.” Journal of the European Economic Association 2(2-3):416–26.
Bhagwati, Jagdish. 2003. “Borders Beyond Control.” Foreign Affairs
82(1):98–104.
Bhattacharya, Amar, and Stephany Griffith-Jones. 2004. “The
Search for a Stable and Equitable Global Financial System.” In
Jan Joost Teunissen and Age Akkerman, (ed.), Diversity in Development: Reconsidering the Washington Consensus. Washington,
DC: Fondad.
Binswanger, Hans, Klaus Deininger, and Gershon Feder. 1995.
“Power Distortions, Revolt and Reform in Agricultural Land
Relations.” In Jere Behrman and T. N. Srinivasan, (ed.), Handbook
of Development Economics, vol. 3B. Amsterdam: North Holland.
Binswanger, Hans, and Mark Rosenzweig. 1986. “Behavioural and
Material Determinants of Production Relations in Agriculture.”
Journal of Development Studies 22(3):503–39.
Bird, Richard M. 1991. More Taxing than Taxes? The Tax-like Effects
of Non-tax Policies in LDC’s. San Francisco: ICS Press.
Bird, Richard M., Jorge Martínez-Vazquez, and Benno Torgler. 2004.
“Societal Institutions and Tax Effort in Developing Countries.” Toronto:
University of Toronto, International Tax Program Paper 04011.
Bird, Richard M., and Barbara Diane Miller. 1989. “The Incidence
of Indirect Taxes on Low-income Households in Jamaica.” Economic Development and Cultural Change 37(2):393–409.
Bird, Richard M., and Enid Slack. 2002. “Land and Property Taxation: A Review.” Paper presented at the Workshop on Land Issues
in Latin American and the Caribbean. May 19. Pachuca, México.
Birdsall, Nancy. 1985. “Public Inputs and Child Schooling in
Brazil.” Journal of Development Economics 18(1):67–86.
————. 2002. “Asymmetric Globalization. Global Markets
Require Good Global Politics.” Washington, DC: Center for
Global Development Working Paper 12.
————. 2004. “Seven Deadly Sins: Reflections on Donor Failings.” Washington, DC: Center for Global Development Working
Paper Series 50.
Birdsall, Nancy, Carol Graham, and Richard Sabot. 1998. Beyond
Tradeoffs: Market Reforms and Equitable Growth in Latin America. Washington, DC: Brookings Instittution Press.
Black, Bernard, Reinier Kraakman, and Anna Tassarova. 2000.
“Russian Privatization and Corporate Governance: What Went
Wrong?” Stanford Law Review 52(6):1731–808.
Black, Maureen M. 2003. “Micronutrient Deficiencies and Cognitive
Functioning.” Journal of Nutrition 133(11 Suppl 2):3927S–3931S.

Blackhurst, Richard, Bill Lyakurwa, and Ademola Oyejide. 2000.
“Options for Improving Africa’s Participation in the WTO.”
World Economy 23(4):491–510.
Blair, Irene V., Charles M. Judd, and Kristine M. Chapleau. 2004.
“The Influence of Afrocentric Facial Features in Criminal Sentencing.” Pscyhological Science 15(10):674–79.
Blanchard, Olivier. 2004. “Reforming Labor Market Institutions:
Unemployed Insurance and Employment Protection.” Cambridge, MA: MIT Department of Economics Working Paper
Series 04-38.
Blejer, Mario, and Isabel Guerrero. 1990. “The Impact of Macroeconomic Policies on Income Distribution: An Empirical Study
of the Philippines.” Review of Economics and Statistics
72(3):414–23.
Bloch, Francis, and Vijayendra Rao. 2002. “Terror as a Bargaining
Instrument: A Case-study of Dowry Violence in Rural India.”
American Economic Review 92(4):1029–43.
Blunch, Niels-Hugo, and Dorte Verner. 2004. “Asymmetries in the
Union Wage Premium in Ghana.” World Bank Economic Review
18(2):237–52.
Boeke, Julius Herman. 1946. The Evolution of the Netherlands Indies
Economy. New York: Netherlands and Netherlands Indies Council, Institute of Pacific Relations.
Boeri, Tito. 2002. “Increasing the Size of the European Labor Force:
The Relevant Trade-offs.” Economic Survey of Europe 2:99–108.
Boix, Carles. 1998. Political Parties, Growth and Equality: Conservative and Social Democratic Economic Strategies in the World Economy. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
————. 2005. “Spain: Development, Democracy and Equity.”
Background paper for the WDR 2006.
Boskin, Michael J. 1977. “An Economist’s Perspective on Estate Taxation.” In Edward C. Halbach Jr., (ed.), Death, Taxes and Family
Property. St. Paul, MN: West Publishing Co.
Bottoms, A. E. 1990. “Crime Prevention Facing the 1990s.” Policy
and Society 1(1):3–22.
Bourdieu, Pierre. 1986. “The Forms of Capital.” In John G. Richardson, (ed.), Handbook of Theory and Research for the Sociology of
Education. Westport, CT: Greenwood Press.
————. 1990. The Logic of Practice. Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press.
Bourguignon, François. 2003. “The Growth Elasticity of Poverty
Reduction: Explaining Heterogeneity across Countries and
Time-periods.” In T. Eichler and S. Turnovsky, (ed.), Growth and
Inequality. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Bourguignon, François, Francisco Ferreira, and Phillippe G. Leite.
2004. “Conditional Cash Transfers, Schooling, and Child Labor:
Microsimulating Brazil's Bolsa Escola Program,” World Bank
Economic Review 17(2):229–54.
Bourguignon, François, Francisco Ferreira, and Nora Lustig. 2004.
The Microeconomics of Income Distribution Dynamics in East Asia
and Latin America. New York: Oxford University Press for the
World Bank.
Bourguignon, François, Francisco Ferreira, and Marta Menendez.
2005. “Inequality of Opportunity in Brazil?” World Bank. Washington, DC. Processed.

References

Bourguignon, François, Victoria Levin, and David Rosenblatt.
2004a. “Declining Economic Inequality and Economic Divergence: Reviewing the Evidence through Different Lenses.”
Economie Internationale 100(4).
————. 2004b. “Global Redistribution: The Role of Aid,
Market Access, and Remittances.” World Bank. Washington, DC.
Processed.
Bourguignon, François, and Christian Morrison. 1990. “Income
Distribution, Development and Foreign Trade: A Cross-sectional
Analysis21`.” European Economic Review 34(6):1113–32.
Bourguignon, François, and Christian Morrisson. 1993. “External
Trade and Income Distribution.” Journal of Development Economics 41(1):207–9.
————. 1998. “Inequality and Development: The Role of Dualism.” Journal of Development Economics 57(2):233–57.
————. 2002. “Inequality among World Citizens: 1820–1992.”
American Economic Review 92(4):727–44.
Bourguignon, François, and Thierry Verdier. 2000. “Oligarchy,
Democracy, Inequality and Growth.” Journal of Development
Economics 62(2):285–313.
Bover, Olimpia, Samuel Bentolila, and Manuel Arellano. 2002. “The
Distribution of Earnings in Spain During the 1980s: The Effect
of Skill, Unemployment and Union Power.” Madrid: Banco De
Espana, Servicio de Estudios, Documento de Trabajo 015. Available on line at http://www.bde.es/informes/be/docs/dt0015e.pdf.
Bowen, William G., and Derek Bok. 1998. The Shape of the River:
Long Term Consequences of Considering Race in College and
University Admissions. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University
Press.
Bowman, Larry W. 1991. Mauritius: Democracy and Development in
the Indian Ocean. Boulder, CO: Westview Press.
Brainerd, Elizabeth, and David M. Cuttler. 2004. “Autopsy on an
Empire: Understanding Mortality in Russia and the Former
Soviet Union.” Cambridge, MA: National Bureau of Economic
Research Working Paper Series 10868.
Brasselle, Anne-Sophie, Frederic Gaspart, and Jean-Philippe Platteau. 2002. “Land Tenure Security and Investment Incentives:
Puzzling Evidence from Burkina Faso.” Journal of Development
Economics 67(2):373–418.
Braverman, Avishay, and J. Luis Guasch. 1986. “Rural Credit Markets and Institutions in Developing Countries: Lessons for Policy
Analysis from Practice and Modern Theory.” World Development
14(10/11):1253–67.
Brenner, Robert. 1976. “Agrarian Class Structure and Economic
Development in Preindustrial Europe.” Past and Present
70(1976):30–75.
Brockett, C. D. 1984. “Malnutrition, Public Policy, and Agrarian
Change in Guatemala.” Journal of Interamerican Studies and
World Affairs 26(4):477–97.
Brocklehurst, Clarissa, and Jan G. Janssens. 2004. “Innovative Contracts, Sound Relationships: Urban Water Sector Reform in
Senegal.” Washington, DC: World Bank Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Board Discussion Paper 1.
Brosnan, Sarah F., and Frans B. M. De Waal. 2003. “Monkeys Reject
Unequal Pay.” Nature 425(6955):297–99.

251

Browning, Martin, and Pierre-Andre Chiappori. 1998. “Efficient
Intra-household Allocation: A General Characterization and
Empirical Tests.” Econometrica 66(6):1241–78.
Bruno, Michael. 1993. Crisis, Stabilization, and Economic Reform:
Therapy by Consensus. New York: Clarendon Press.
Bruno, Michael, Martin Ravallion, and Lyn Squire. 1998. “Equity and
Growth in Developing Countries: Old and New Perspectives on the
Policy Issues.” In Vito Tanzi and Ke-young Chu, (ed.), Income Distribution and High-quality Growth. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Bruns, Barbara, Alain Mingat, and Ramahatra Rakotomalala. 2003.
Achieving Universal Primary Education by 2015: A Chance for
Every Child. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Buchanan, James M. 1976. “A Hobbesian Interpretation of the
Rawlsian Difference Principle.” Kyklos 29(1):5–25.
Bukurura, Sufian Hemed. 1994. “ The Maintenance of Order in
Rural Tanzania: The Case of the Sungusungu.” Journal of Legal
Pluralism 34:1–29.
Burgess, Robin, and Rohini Pande. 2004. “Do Rural Banks Matter?
Evidence from the Indian Social Banking Experiment.” London:
Center for Economic Policy Research Discussion Papers 4211.
Burney, Nadeem A., and Mohammad Irfan. 1995. “Determinants of
Child School Enrollment: Evidence from LDCs Using Choicetheoretic Approach.” International Journal of Social Economics
22(1):24–40.
Burnside, Craig, and David Dollar. 2000. “Aid, Policies and
Growth.” American Economic Review 90(4):847–68.
Burra, Nera. 1995. Born to Work: Child Labour in India. New York:
Oxford University Press.
Buscaglia, Edgardo. 1997. “Introduction.” In Edgardo Buscaglia,
Louise Cord, and W. Ratliff, (ed.), Law and Economics of Development. Greenwich, CT: JAI Press Inc.
Buscaglia, Edgardo, and Maria Dakolias. 1999. An Analysis of the
Causes of Corruption in the Judiciary. Washington, DC: World
Bank, Legal and Judicial Reform Unit.
Bush, Robert A. 1979. “Access to Justice and Societal Pluralism.” In
Mauro Cappelletti and Bryant Garth, (ed.), Access to Justice, Vol.
3. Milan: Guiffre Editore.
Byerlee, D., and T. Kelley. 2004. “Surviving on the Margin: Agricultural Research and Development Strategies for Poverty Reduction in Marginal Areas.” World Bank, Agriculture and Rural
Development. Washington, DC. Processed.
Cadiet, Loïc. 2004. Dictionnaire de la Justice. Paris: Presses Universitaires de France.
Cain, Mead. 1981. “Risk and Insurance: Perspective on Fertility and
Agrarian Change in India and Bangladesh.” Population and
Development Review 7(3):435–74.
Cameron, Lisa. 1999. “Raising the Stakes in the Ultimatum Game:
Experimental Evidence from Indonesia.” Economic Inquiry
37(1):47–59.
Campos, Javier, Antonio Estache, Noelia Martin, and Lourdes Trujillo. 2003. “Macroeconomic Effects of Private Sector Participation in Infrastructure.” In William Easterly and Luis Servén,
(ed.), The Limits of Stabilization. Washington, DC: World Bank
and Stanford Social Sciences, an imprint of Stanford University
Press.

252

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Cardenas, Juan-Camillo. 2003. “Real Wealth and Experimental
Cooperation: Experiments in the Field Lab.” Journal of Development Economics 70(2):263–89.
Cardoso, Ciro F. S. 1991. “The Liberal Era, 1870-1930.” In Leslie
Bethell, (ed.), Central America Since Independence. Cambridge,
UK: Cambridge University Press.
Carneiro, Pedro, and James Heckman. 2003. “Human Capital Policy.” Cambridge, MA: National Bureau of Economic Research
Working Paper Series 9495.
Carruthers, Robin, Jitendra N. Bajpai, and David Hummels. 2004.
“Trade and Logistics: An East Asia Perspective.” In Kathie
Krumm and Homi Kharas, (ed.), East Asia Integrates: A Trade
Policy Agenda for Shared Growth. Washington, DC: Oxford University Press for the World Bank.
Casagrande, Joseph B., and Arthur R. Piper. 1969. “La Transformación Estructural de una Parroquia Rural en las Tierras Altas del
Ecuador.” América Indígena 29:1029–64.
Case, Anne. 2001. “Does Money Protect Health Status? Evidence
from South African Pensions.” Cambridge, MA: National Bureau
of Economic Research Working Paper Series 8495.
Case, Anne, and Angus Deaton. 1998. “Large Cash Transfers to the
Elderly in South Africa.” Economic Journal 108(450):1330–61.
————. 1999. “School Quality and Educational Outcomes in
South Africa.” Quarterly Journal of Economics 114(3):1047–84.
Castaneda, Tarsicio. 2003. “Targeting Social Spending to the Poor
with Proxy-Means Testing: Columbia’s SISBEN System.” World
Bank. Washington, DC. Processed.
Castello, Amparo, and Rafael Domenech. 2002. “Human Capital
Inequality and Economic Growth: Some New Evidence.” Economic Journal 112(478):C187–C200.
Center for Global Development. 2004. Ranking the Rich: The 2004
CGD/FP Commitment to Development Index. Washington, DC:
Center for Global Development. Available on line at http://www.
cgdev.org/rankingtherich/home.html.
Centre for Housing Rights and Evictions. 2004. Bringing Equality
Home: Promoting and Protecting the Inheritance Rights of Women.
Geneva: Centre for Housing Rights and Evictions. Available on
line at http://www.cohre.org/downloads/womens-inheritancerights-africa.pdf.
Chang, Roberto, and Andrés Velasco. 2001. “A Model of Financial
Crises in Emerging Markets.” Quarterly Journal of Economics
116(2):489–517.
Chattopadhyay, Raghabendra, and Esther Duflo. 2004. “Women as
Policy Makers: Evidence from a Randomized Policy Experiment
in India.” Econometrica 72(5):1409–43.
Chaturvedi, S., B. C. Srivastava, J. V. Singh, and M. Prasad. 1987.
“Impact of Six Years Exposure to ICDS Scheme on Psycho-social
Development.” Indian Pediatrics 24:153–64.
Chaudhuri, Shubham, Pinelopi K. Goldberg, and Panle Jia. 2004.
“Estimating the Effects of Global Patent Protection in Pharmaceuticals: A Case Study of Quinolones in India.” World Bank.
Washington, DC. Available on line at http://www.econ.yale.edu/
~pg87/TRIPS.pdf. Processed.
Chaudhuri, Shubham, K. N. Harilal, and Patrick Heller. 2004. Does
Decentralization Make a Difference? A Study of the Peoples Cam-

paign for Decentralized Planning in the Indian State of Kerala.
New Delhi: Ford Foundation.
Chaudhuri, Shubham, and Patrick Heller. 2003. “The Plasticity of
Participation: Evidence from a Participatory Governance Experiment.” New York: Columbia University ISERP Working Paper
03-01.
Chaudhury, Nazmul, and Jeffery Hammer. 2004. “Ghost Doctors:
Absenteeism in Rural Bangladeshi Health Clinics.” World Bank
Economic Review 18(3):423–41.
Chaudhury, Nazmul, Jeffery Hammer, K. Muralidharan, and F. H.
Rogers. 2005. “Missing in Action: Teacher and Health Worker
Absence in Developing Countries.” World Bank. Washington,
DC. Processed.
Chaudhury, Nazmul, Jeffery Hammer, and Edmundo Murrugarra. 2003. “The Effects of a Fee-Waiver Program on Health
Care Utilization among the Poor: Evidence from Armenia.”
Washington, DC: World Bank Policy Research Working Paper
Series 2952.
Chauvet, Lisa, and Paul Collier. 2004. “Development Effectiveness
in Fragile States: Spillovers and Turnarounds.” Oxford University, Centre for the Study of African Economies. Oxford, UK.
Available on line at http://www.oecd.org/dataoecd/32/59/
34255628.pdf. Processed.
Chaykowsky, Richard P., and Richard A. Slotsve. 2002. “Earnings
Inequality and Unions in Canada.” British Journal of Industrial
Relations 40(3):493–519.
Chen, Martha, Joann Vanek, and Marilyn Carr. 2004. Mainstreaming Informal Employment and Gender in Poverty Reduction. London: Commonwealth Secretariat.
Chen, Shaohua, and Martin Ravallion. 2004. “How Have The
World’s Poorest Fared since the Early 1980’s?” World Bank
Research Observer 19(2):141–69.
Chenery, Hollis, Clive Bell, J. Duloy, and Richard Jolly. 1974. Redistribution with Growth. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Chile’s Ministry of Planning. 2004. Sistema de Proteccion Social:
Chile Solidario. Santiago de Chile: Ministry of Planning, Government of Chile.
Chiquiar, Daniel. 2005. “Why Mexico’s Regional Income Convergence
Broke Down.” Journal of Development Economics 77(1):257–75.
Chirayath, Leila, Caroline Sage, and Michael Woolcock. 2005. “Customary Law and Policy Reform: Engaging with the Plurality of
Justice Systems.” Background paper for the WDR 2006.
Chisari, Omar, Antonio Estache, and Carlos Romero. 1999. “Winners and Losers from the Privatization and Regulation Utilities:
Lessons from a General Equilibrium Model of Argentina.” World
Bank Economic Review 13(2):357–78.
Chua, Amy. 2004. World on Fire: How Exporting Free Market
Democracy Breeds Ethnic Hatred and Global Instability. New York:
Anchor Books.
Chubb, John E., and Terry M. Moe. 1990. Politics, Markets, and
America’s Schools. Washington, DC: The Brookings Institution.
Claessens, Stijn, Simeon Djankov, and Larry H. P. Lang. 2000. “The
Separation of Ownership and Control in East Asian Corporations.” Journal of Financial Economics 58(1-2):81–112.

References

Claessens, Stijn, and Enrico Perotti. 2005. “The Links Between
Finance and Inequality: Channels and Evidence.” Background
paper for the WDR 2006.
Claessens, Stijn, and Gerhard Pohl. 1994. “Banks, Capital Markets,
and Corporate Governance: Lessons from Russia for Eastern
Europe.” Washington, DC: World Bank Policy Research Working
Paper Series 1326.
Claessens, Stijn, and Geoffrey R. D. Underhill. 2004. “The Need for
Institutional Changes in the Global Financial System: An Analytical Framework.” Paper presented at the Developing Countries,
Global Finance, and the Role of the IMF: Towards a New Relationship? November 12. The Hague.
Claessens, Stijn, Geoffrey R. D. Underhill, and Xiaoke Zhang. 2003.
“Basle II Capital Requirements and Developing Countries: A
Political Economy Perspective.” Paper presented at the Quantifying the Impact of Rich Countries’ Policies on Poor Countries.
October 23. Washington, DC.
Cline, William R. 2004. Trade Policy and Global Poverty. Washington, DC: Institute for International Economics.
Coady, David, Margaret Grosh, and John Hoddinott. 2004. Targeting Transfers in Developing Countries: Review of Lessons and
Experience. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Coate, Stephen, and Glenn Loury. 1993. “Antidiscrimination
Enforcement and the Problem of Patronization.” American Economic Review 83(2):92–8.
Coatsworth, John H. 1993. “Notes on the Comparative Economic
History of Latin America and the United States.” In W. L. Bernecker and H. W Tobler, (ed.), Development and Underdevelopment in America: Contrasts of Economic Growth in North and
Latin America in Historical Perspective. Berlin: de Gruyter.
Cogneau, Denis. 2005. “Equality of Opportunity and Other Equity
Principles in the Context of Developing Countries.” Paris,
France: Développement, Institutions & Analyses de Long terme
(DIAL) Working Paper DT/2005/01.
Cogneau, Denis, and Jean-David Naudet. 2004. “Who Deserves
Aid? Equality of Opportunity, International Aid, and Poverty
Reduction.” Paper presented at the Equity and Development
Workshop. September 6. Berlin.
Cole, Jeffrey A. 1985. The Potosi Mita, 1573-1700: Compulsory
Indian Labor in the Andes. Palo Alto, CA: Stanford University
Press.
Collier, Paul, and David Dollar. 2001. “Can the World Cut
Poverty in Half? How Policy Reform and Effective Aid Can
Meet International Development Goals.” World Development
29(11):1787–802.
————. 2002. “Aid Allocation and Poverty Reduction.” European
Economic Review 46(8):1475–500.
Commission on Macroeconomics and Health. 2001. Macroeconomics and Health: Investing in Health for Economic Development.
Geneva: World Health Organization.
Conning, Jonathan H., and James A. Robinson. 2002. “Land
Reform and the Political Organization of Agriculture.” London:
CEPR Working Paper 3204.
Connor, John M. 2001. Global Price-Fixing: Our Customers Are the
Enemy. Boston, MA: Kluwer Academic Publishing.

253

Cord, Louise, and Quentin Wodon. 2001. Do Mexico’s Agricultural
Programs Alleviate Poverty: Evidence from the Ejido Sector. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Cornia, Andrea Giovanni, and Leonardo Menchini. 2005. “The
Pace and Distribution of Health Improvements during the Last
40 Years: Some Preliminary Results.” Paper presented at the
Forum on Human Development. January 17. Paris.
Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. 2000. Making South
Africa Safe: A Manual for Community Based Crime Prevention.
Pretoria: Deparment of Safety and Security, South African Police
Service.
Cowell, Frank A. 1995. Measuring Inequality (second edition).
Wheatsheaf: Prentice Hall.
Cox, Donald, Zekeriya Eser, and Emmanuel Jimenez. 1998.
“Motives for Private Transfers Over the Life Cycle: An Analytical
Framework and Evidence for Peru.” Journal of Development Economics 55(1):57–80.
Craven, Wesley F. 1932. Dissolution of the Virginia Company. New
York: Oxford University Press.
Crosby, Alfred. 1986. Ecological Imperialism: The Biological Expansion of Europe 900-1900. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University
Press.
Cull, Robert, Jana Matesova, and Mary Shirley. 2002. “Ownership
and the Temptation to Loot: Evidence from Privatized Firms in
the Czech Republic.” Journal of Comparative Economics
30(1):1–24.
Cullen, Julie Berry, Brian A. Jacob, and Steven Levitt. 2000. “The
Impact of School Choice on Student Outcomes: An Analysis of
the Chicago Public Schools.” Cambridge, MA: National Bureau
of Economic Research Working Paper Series 7888.
————. 2003. “The Effect of School Choice on Student Outcomes: Evidence from Randomized Lotteries.” Cambridge, MA:
National Bureau of Economic Research Working Paper Series
10113.
Currie, Janet. 2000. “Early Childhood Intervention Programs: What
do we Know?” Chicago: JCPR Working Paper 169.
Currie, Janet, and Duncan Thomas. 1995. “Does Head Start Make a
Difference?” American Economic Review 85(3):341–64.
————. 1999. “Does Head Start Help Hispanic Children?” International Journal of Social Economics 74(2):235–62.
————. 2000. “School Quality and the Longer-Term Effects of
Head Start.” Journal of Human Resources 35(4):755–74.
CUTS (Consumer Unity and Trust Society). 2003. Spine Chilling
Experiences of Anti-Competitive Practices in Malawi. India:
CUTS.
Dakolias, Maria, and Kim Thatchuk. 2000. “The Problem of Eradicating Corruption from the Judiciary.” In Marco Fabri and Philip
M. Langbroek, (ed.), The Challenge of Change for Judicial Systems. Amsterdam: IOS Press.
Dalgaard, Carl-Johan., Henrik Hansen, and Finn Tarp. 2004. “On
the Empirics of Foreign Aid and Growth.” Economic Journal
114(496):F191–F216.
Damiani, Octavio. 2003. “Effects on Employment, Wages and Labor
Standards of Nontraditional Export Crops in Northeast Brazil.”
Latin American Research Review 38(1):83–112.

254

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Das Gupta, Monica, Sunhwa Lee, Patricia Uberoi, Danning Wang,
Lihong Wang, and Xiaodan Zhang. 2004. “State Policies and
Women’s Agency in China, The Republic of Korea, and India,
1950–2000: Lessons from Contrasting Experiences.” In Vijayendra Rao and Michael Walton, (ed.), Culture and Public Action.
Stanford: Stanford University Press.
Das Gupta, Monica, Jian Zhenghua, Li Bohua, Xie Zhenming, Woojin Chung, and Bae Hwa-Ok. 2003. “Why is Son Preference so
Persistent in East and South Asia? A Cross-country Study of
India, China and the Republic of Korea.” Journal of Development
Studies 40(2):153–87.
Das, Hans. 2004. “Restoring Property Rights in the Aftermath of
War.” International and Comparative Law Quarterly
53(2):429–44.
Das, Jishnu, and Jeffery Hammer. 2005. “Poverty and the Access to
Quality Health-Care: Evidence from Delhi.” World Bank. Washington, DC. Processed.
Das, Jishnu, and Jeffrey Hammer. 2-28-2004. “Strained Mercy;
Quality of Medical Care in Delhi.” Economic and Political Weekly.
Dasgupta, A., C. P. S. Nayar, and Associates. 1989. Urban Informal
Credit Markets in India. New Delhi: National Institute of Public
Finance and Policy.
Datt, Gaurav, and Martin Ravallion. 1992. “Growth and Redistribution Components of Changes in Poverty Measures: A Decomposition with Applications to Brazil and India in the 1980s.” Journal
of Development Economics 38(2):275–95.
Davies, James B., and Anthony F. Shorrocks. 2005. “Wealth Holdings in Developing and Transition Countries.” Paper presented at
the Luxembourg Wealth Study Conference. January 27. Luxembourg.
Davis, Jeffrey, Rolando Ossowski, and Annalisa Fedelino, eds. 2003.
Fiscal Policy Formulation and Implementation in Oil-Producing
Countries. Washington, DC: International Monetary Fund.
Day, Candy, and Calle Hedberg. 2004. “Health Indicators.” South
African Health Review 2003(4):349–420.
de Carvalho Filho, Irineue Evangelista. 2000. “Household Income
as a Determinant of Child Labour and School Enrollment in
Brazil: Evidence from a Social Security Reform.” Boston University. Boston. Processed.
De Ferranti, David, Guillermo Perry, William Foster, Daniel Lederman, and Alberto Valdés. 2005. Beyond the City: The Rural Contribution to Development. Washington, DC: World Bank.
De Ferranti, David, Guillermo E. Perry, Francisco H. G. Ferreira,
and Michael Walton. 2004. Inequality in Latin America: Breaking
with History? Washington, DC: World Bank.
de Haan, Arjan. 2005. “Disparities Within India’s Poorest Regions:
Why Do The Same Institutions Work Differently In Different
Places?” Background paper for the WDR 2006.
De Janvry, Alain, and Elisabeth Sadoulet. 1989. “A Study in Resistance to Institutional Change: The Lost Game of Latin American
Land Reform.” World Development 17(9):1397–407.
————. 2002. “Land Reforms in Latin America: Ten Lessons
toward a Contemporary Agenda.” Paper presented at the World
Bank’s Latin American Land Policy Workshop. June 14. Pachuca,
Mexico.

————. 2004. “Conditional Cash Transfer Programs: Are they
Really Magic Bullets?” University of California. Berkeley, CA.
Available on line at http://are.berkeley.edu/~sadoulet/papers/
ARE-CCTPrograms.pdf. Processed.
De Soto, Hernando. 2000. The Mystery of Capital: Why Capitalism
Triumphs in the West and Fails Everywhere Else. New York: Basic
Books.
Dearden, Lorraine, Stephen Machin, and Howard Reed. 1997.
“Intergenerational Mobility in Britain.” Economic Journal
107(440):47–66.
Deaton, Angus. 1997. The Analysis of Household Surveys. Washington, DC: World Bank.
————. 2003. “Health, Inequality and Economic Development.”
Journal of Economic Literature 41(1):113–58.
————. 2004. “Health in an Age of Globalization.” Paper presented at the Brookings Trade Forum. May 13. Brookings Institution, Washington, DC.
Deaton, Angus, and Jean Drèze. 2002. “Poverty and Inequality in
India: A Reexamination.” Economic and Political Weekly September 7:3729–48.
Deaton, Angus, and Valerie Kozel. 2004. Data and Dogma: The
Great Indian Poverty Debate. New Delhi: McMillan.
Decker, Klaus, Siobhan McInerney-Lankford, and Caroline Sage.
2005. “Human Rights and Equitable Development: ‘Ideals’, Iissues and Implications.” Background paper for the WDR 2006.
Decker, Klaus, Caroline Sage, and Milena Stefanova. 2005. “Law or
Justice: Building Equitable Legal Institutions.” Background paper
for the WDR 2006.
Deere, Carmen Diana, and Magdalena León. 2003.“The Gender Asset
Gap: Land in Latin America.” World Development 31(6):925–47.
Deininger, Klaus. Forthcoming. “Land Policy Reforms.” In Aline
Coudouel and Stefano Paternostro (ed.) The Distributional
Impact of Reforms: A Practitioners’ Guide, Volume I, Trade, Monetary and Exchange Rate Policy, Utility Provision, Agricultural Markets, Land, and Education. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Deininger, Klaus, Raffaella Castagnini, and María A. González.
2004. “Comparing Land Reform and Land Markets in Colombia:
Impacts on Equity and Efficiency.” Washington, DC: World Bank
Policy Research Working Paper Series 3258.
Deininger, Klaus, J. Hoogeveen, and B. Kinsey. 2004. “Economic
Benefits and Costs of Land Redistribution in Zimbabwe in the
early 1980s.” World Development 32(10):1697–709.
Deininger, Klaus, Songquing Jin, Berhanu Adenew, Samuel GebreSelassie, and Berhanu Nega. 2003. “Tenure Security and LandRelated Investment: Evidence from Ethiopia.” Washington, DC:
World Bank Policy Research Working Paper Series 2991.
Deininger, Klaus, and Paul Mpuga. 2004. “Economic and Welfare
Effects of the Abolition of Health User Fees: Evidence from
Uganda.” Washington, DC: World Bank Policy Research Working
Paper Series 3276.
Deininger, Klaus, and Pedro Olinto. 2000. “Asset Distribution,
Inequality and Growth.” World Bank: World Bank Policy
Research Working Paper Series 2375.
Deininger, Klaus, and Lyn Squire. 1996. “A New Data Set Measuring
Income Inequality.” World Bank Economic Review 10(3):565–91.

References

————. 1998. “New Ways of Looking at Old Issues: Inequality
and Growth.” Journal of Development Economics 57(2):259–87.
Delgado, Guilherme, and José Celso Cardoso Jr., eds. 2000. A Universalização de Direitos Sociais no Brasil: A Previdência Rural nos
Anos 90. Brasília: IPEA.
Demombynes, Gabriel, and Berk Özler. 2005. “Crime and Local
Inequality in South Africa.” Journal of Development Economics
76(2):265–92.
Deshpande, Ashwini. 2005. “Affirmative Action in India and the
United States.” Background paper for the WDR 2006.
DeTray, Dennis. 1988. “Government Policy, Household Behavior
and the Distribution of Schooling: A Case Study in Malaysia.” In
T. P. Schultz, (ed.), Research in Population Economics, Vol. 6.
Greenwich, CT: JAI Press.
Deutsch, Ruthanne. 1998. “Does Child Care Pay? Labor Force
Participation and Earnings Effects of Access to Child Care in
the Favelas of Rio.” Washington, DC: Inter-American Development Bank, Office of the Chief Economist Working Paper
Series 384.
Devereux, Stephen. 2001. “Livelihood Insecurity and Social Protection: A Re-emerging Issue in Rural Development.” Development
Policy Review 19(4):507–19.
Diallo, Amadou Bassirou, and Quentin Wodon. 2005. “A Note on
Access to Network-based Infrastructure Services in Africa: Benefit and Marginal Benefit Incidence Analysis.” World Bank. Washington, DC. Processed.
Diamond, Peter A. 1981. “Mobility Costs, Frictional Unemployment, and Efficiency.” Journal of Political Economy 89(4):798–812.
Dickson, Rumona, Shally Awasthi, Paula Williamson, Colin
Demellweek, and Paul Garner. 2000. “Effects of Treatment for
Intestinal Helminth Infection on Growth and Cognitive Performance in Children: Systematic Review of Randomized Trials.”
British Medical Journal 320(7251):1697–701.
Diwan, Ishac. 2001. “Debt as Sweat: Labor, Financial Crisis, and the
Globalization of Capital.” World Bank. Washington, DC.
Available on line at http://info.worldbank.org/etools/docs/
voddocs/150/332/diwan.pdf. Processed.
————. 2002. “The Labor Share during Financial Crisis: New
Results.” World Bank. Washington, DC. Processed.
Djankov, Simeon, Rafael La Porta, Florencio López-de-Silanes, and
Andrei Shleifer. 2003. “Courts.” Quarterly Journal of Economics
118(2):453–517.
Do, Toan, and Laksmi Iyer. 2003. “Land Rights and Economic
Development: Evidence from Vietnam.” Washington, DC: World
Bank Policy Research Working Paper Series 3120.
Dollar, David, and Aart Kraay. 2002. “Growth is Good for the Poor.”
Journal of Economic Growth 7(3):195–225.
————. 2004. “Trade, Growth and Poverty.” Economic Journal
114(493):F22–F49.
Dollar, David, and Victoria Levin. 2004. “The Increasing Selectivity
of Foreign Aid.” Washington DC: World Bank Policy Research
Working Paper Series 3299.
Doryan, Eduardo A., Kul C. Gautman, and William H. Foege. 2002.
“The Political Challenge: Commitment and Cooperation.” In
Mary Eming Young, (ed.), From Early Childhood Development to

255

Human Development: Investing in our Children’s Future. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Draï, Raphaël. 1991. Le Mythe de la Loi du Talion. Paris: Alinea.
Drèze, Jean, Peter Lanjouw, and Naresh Sharma. 1998. “Economic
Development in Palanpur, 1957–93.” In Peter Lanjouw and
Nicholas Stern, (ed.), Economic Development in Palanpur over
Five Decades. New York: Clarendon Press.
Duan, Chengrong. 2005. “China: Gender Inequality Status Report.”
Renmin University. Beijing. Processed.
Duflo, Esther. 2001. “Schooling and Labor Market Consequences of
School Construction in Indonesia: Evidence from an Unusual
Policy Experiment.” American Economic Review 91(4):795–813.
————. 2003. “Grandmothers and Granddaughters: Old-age
Pensions and Intrahousehold Allocation in South Africa.” World
Bank Economic Review 17(1):1–25.
Duflo, Esther, Michael Kremer, and Jonathan Robinson. 2004.
“Understanding Technology Adoption: Fertilizer in Western
Kenya, Preliminary Results from Field Experiments.” Paper presented at the LSE Conference ‘Behavioral Economics, Public
Economics and Development Economics. May 28. London.
Duflo, Esther, and Christopher Udry. 2004. “Intrahousehold
Resource Allocation in Côte d’Ivoire: Social Norms, Separate
Accounts and Consumption Choices.” Cambridge, MA:
National Bureau of Economic Research Working Paper Series
10498.
Dunn, Christopher. 2003. “Assortative Matching and Intergenerational Mobility in Family Earnings: Evidence from Brazil.” University of Michigan. Ann Harbor, MI. Processed.
Durand-Lasserve, A. 2003. “Land Issues and Security of Tenure.
Background Report for the UN Millennium Project Task Force
on Improving the Lives of Slum Dwellers.” National Centre for
Scientific Research. France. Processed.
Dworkin, Ronald. 1981a. “What is Equality? Part 2: Equality of
Resources.” Philosophy and Public Affairs 10(3):283–345.
————. 1981b. “What is Equality? Part 1: Equality of Welfare.”
Philosophy and Public Affairs 10(3):185–246.
Easterlin, Richard. 1974. “Does Economic Growth Improve the
Human Lot?: Some Empirical Evidence.” In David A. Paul and
Melvin W. Reder, (ed.), Nations and Households in Economic
Growth: Essays in Honor of Moses Abramowitz. New York: Academic Press.
Easterly, William, and Ross Levine. 1997. “Africa’s Growth Tragedy:
Policies and Ethnic Divisions.” Quarterly Journal of Economics
112(4):1203–50.
Easterly, William, Ross Levine, and David Roodman. 2004. “Aid,
Policies, and Growth: Comment.” American Economic Review
94(3):774–80.
Ehrenreich, Barbara, and Arlie Russell Hochschild, eds. 2003.
Global Woman. Nannies, Maids, and Sex Workers in the New
Economy. New York: Metropolitan Books.
Elbers, Chris, Peter Lanjouw, Joan Mistiaen, Berk Özler, and K.
Simler. 2004. “On the Unequal Inequality of Poor Communities.”
World Bank Economic Review 18(3):401–21.
Elbers, Chris, Peter Lanjouw, Johan Mistiaen, and Berk Özler. 2005.“Reinterpreting Sub-group Inequality Decompositions.” World Bank.

256

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Washington, DC. Available on line at http://globetrotter.berkeley.edu/
macarthur/inequality/papers/OzlerReinterpretingDecomp.pdf.
Processed.
Elo, Irma, and Samuel H. Preston. 1996. “Educational Differences in
Mortality: United States.” Social Science and Medicine 42(1):47–57.
Elson, Robert E. 2001. Suharto: A Political Biography. Cambridge,
UK: Cambridge University Press.
Engerman, Stanley, and Kenneth Sokoloff. 1997. “Factor Endowments, Institutions, and Differential Paths of Growth Among
New World Economies: A View from Economic Historians of the
United States.” In Stephen Haber, (ed.), How Latin America Fell
Behind. Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press.
Engerman, Stanley L., and Kenneth Sokoloff. 2002. “Factor Endowments, Inequality, and Paths of Development among New World
Economies.” Economia 3(1):41–88.
Engerman, Stanley L., and Kenneth L. Sokoloff. 2001. “The Evolution of Suffrage Institutions in the New World.” Cambridge, MA:
National Bureau of Economic Research Working Paper Series
8512.
Erikson, Robert, and John Goldthrope. 2002. “Intergenerational
Inequality: A Sociological Perspective.” Journal of Economic Perspectives 16(3):31–44.
Escobal, Javier, and Máximo Torero. 2003. “Adverse Geography and
Differences in Welfare in Peru.” Helsinki: United Nations University, World Institute for Development Economics Research, Discussion Paper 2003/73.
Escobar, María-Luisa. 2005. “The Columbia Health Sector Reform
and the Poor.” World Bank. Washington, DC. Processed.
Escobar, María-Luisa, and Panagiota Panopoulou. 2002. “Chapter
6: Health.” In Giugale, Lafourcade, and Luff, (ed.), Columbia: The
Economic Foundations for Peace. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Esping-Andersen, Gosta. 1990. The Three Worlds of Welfare Capitalism. Cambridge, UK: Polity Press.
Estache, Antonio. 2003. “On Latin America’s Infrastructure Privatization and its Distributional Effects.” Paper presented at the Distributional Consequences of Privatization Conference. February
24. Washington, DC.
Estache, Antonio, Vivien Foster, and Quentin Wodon. 2001.
Accounting for Poverty in Infrastructure Reform: Learning from
Latin America’s Experience. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Estache, Antonio, Andrés Gómez-Lobo, and Danny Leipziger. 2001.
“Utilities Privatization and the Poor: Lessons and Evidence from
Latin America.” World Development 29(7):1179–98.
Esteban, Joan, and Debraj Ray. 1994. “On the Measurement of
Polarization.” Econometrica 62(4):819–51.
Evans, Peter. 2004. “Development as Institutional Change: The Pitfalls of Monocropping and Potentials of Deliberation.” Studies in
Comparative International Development 38(4):30–53.
Fafchamps, Marcel. 2000. “Ethnicity and Credit in African Manufacturing.” Journal of Development Economics 61(1):205–35.
Fafchamps, Marcel, and Susan Lund. 2003. “Risk-sharing Networks
in Rural Philippines.” Review of Economic Studies 71(2):261–87.
Faini, Riccardo. 2003. “The Brain Drain: An Unmitigated Blessing?”
Milan: Centro Studi Luca d’Agliano Development Studies 173.
Available on line at http://ssrn.com/abstract=463021.

Fajnzylber, Pablo, Daniel Lederman, and Norman Loayza. 2000.
“Crime and Victimization: An Economic Perspective.” Economía
1(1):219–78.
Fallon, Peter R., and Robert E. B. Lucas. 1993. “Job Security Regulations and the Dynamic Demand for Industrial Labor in
India and Zimbabwe.” Journal of Development Economics
40(2):241–75.
Feder, Gershon. 1988. Land Policies and Farm Productivity in Thailand. Baltimore, MD: Johns Hopkins University.
————. 2002. “The Intricacies of Land Markets: Why the World
Bank Succeeds in Economic Reforms through Land Registration
and Tenure Security.” Paper presented at the International Federation of Surveyors Conference. April 19. Washington, DC.
Fehr, Ernst, and Urs Fischbacher. 2003. “The Nature of Human
Altruism.” Nature 425(October):785–91.
Fehr, Ernst, and Simon Gachter. 2000. “Cooperation and Punishment in Public Goods Experiments.” American Economic Review
90(4):980–94.
Fehr, Ernst, and Klaus M. Schmidt. 1999. “A Theory of Fairness,
Competition and Cooperation.” Quarterly Journal of Economics
114(3):817–68.
Feierstein, Mark, and John Moreira. 2005. Liberians Have New
Outlook On Their Future. Washington, DC: Greenberg Quinland Rosner Research Inc. Available on line at http://www.
greenbergresearch.com.
Feijen, Erik, and Enrico Perotti. 2005. “Lobbying for Strategic
Default.” University of Amsterdam. Amsterdam. Processed.
Feldstein, Martin. 1998. “Income Inequality and Poverty.” Cambridge, MA: National Bureau of Economic Research Working
Paper Series 6770.
Fernández-Kelly, Patricia. 1995. “Social and Cultural Capital in the
Urban Ghetto: Implications for the Economic Sociology of
Immigration.” In Alejandro Portes, (ed.), The Economic Sociology
of Immigration: Essays in Network, Ethnicity, and Entrepreneurship. New York: Rusell Sage Foundation.
Ferreira, Francisco H. G. 2001. “Education for the Masses? The
Interaction between Wealth, Educational and Political Inequalities.” Economics of Transition 9(2):533–52.
Ferreira, Francisco H. G., and Julie A. Litchfield. 2001. “Education
or Inflation? The Micro and Macroeconomics of the Brazilian
Income Distribution during 1981–95.” Cuadernos de Economía
38(114):209–38.
Ferreira, Pedro Cavalcanti. 2004. Regional Policy in Brazil: A Review.
Rio de Janeiro: Fundacao Getulio Vargas.
Field, Erica. 2003. “Entitled to Work: Urban Tenure Security and
Labor Supply in Peru.” Princeton, NJ: Princeton University,
Princeton Law & Public Affairs Working Paper 02-1.
Fields, Gary S. 1989. “Changes in Poverty and Inequality in Developing Countries.” World Bank Research Observer 4(2):167–85.
Fields, Gary S., and George H. Jakubson. 1994. “New Evidence on
the Kuznets Curve.” Cornell University. Ithaca, NY. Processed.
Filmer, Deon. 2004. “If you Build it, Will They Come? School
Availability and School Enrollment in 21 Poor Countries.”
Washington, DC: World Bank Policy Research Working Paper
Series 3340.

References

Filmer, Deon, Margaret Grosh, Elizabeth M. King, and Dominique
Van de Walle. 1998. “Pay and Grade Differentials at the World
Bank.” Washington, DC: World Bank Policy Research Working
Paper Series 1912.
Filmer, Deon, and Lant Pritchett. 1998. The Effect of Household
Wealth on Educational Attainment. Policy Research Working
Paper #1980, The World Bank.
Filmer, Deon, and Lant Pritchett. 1999. “The Effect of Household
Wealth on Educational Attainment: Evidence from 35 Countries.” Population and Development Review 25(1):85–120.
Fink, Carsten, and Patrick Reichenmuller. 2005. “Tightening TRIPs:
The Intellectual Property Provisions of Recent US Freed Trade
Agreements.” Washington, DC: World Bank, Trade Note 20.
Firebaugh, Glenn, and Brian Goesling. 2004. “Accounting for the
Recent Decline in Global Income Inequality.” The American Journal of Sociology 110(2):283–312.
Fishman, Robert M. 1990. Working Class Organization and the Return
to Democracy in Spain. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press.
Fisman, Raymond. 2001a. “Trade Credit and Productive Efficiency
in Developing Countries.” World Development 29(2):7311–21.
————. 2001b. “Estimating the Value of Political Connections.”
American Economic Review 91(4):1095–102.
————. 2003. “Ethnic Ties and the Provision of Credit: Relationship-Level Evidence from African Firms.” Advances in Economic
Analysis and Policy 3(1):1211–1211.
Fiszbein, Ariel. 2005. Citizens, Politicians and Providers: The Latin
American Experience with Service Delivery Reform. Washington,
DC: World Bank.
Fleshman, Michael. 2001. “AIDS Orphans: Facing Africa’s Silent
Crisis.” Africa Recovery 15(3):1–1.
Forbes, Kristin J. 2000. “A Reassessment of the Relationship
Between Inequality and Growth.” American Economic Review
90(4):869–87.
Fortman, Louise. 1998. “Why Women’s Property Rights Matter.”
Paper presented at the International Conference and Workshop
on Land Tenure in the Developing World. Cape Town.
Foster, Andrew D., and Mark R. Rosenzweig. 1995.“Learning by Doing
and Learning from Others: Human Capital and Technical Change in
Agriculture.” Journal of Political Economy 103(6):1176–209.
Fox, Jonathan, eds. 1990. The Challenge of Rural Democratization:
Perspectives from Latin America and the Philippines. London:
Frank Cass and Company.
FTI Secretariat. 2004. Education for All (EFA)-Fast Track Initiative
(FTI); Status Report. Washington, DC: World Bank. Available on
line at http://www1.worldbank.org/education/efafti/documents/
Brasilia/status_report_dec6.pdf.
Fujii, Tomoki. 2005. “Micro-level Estimation of Child Malnutrition
Indicators and its Application in Cambodia.” Washington, DC:
World Bank Policy Research Working Paper Series 3662.
Funck, Bernard, and Lodovico Pizzati, eds. 2003. European Integration, Regional Policy, and Growth. Washington, DC: World
Bank.
Fung, Archon, Dara O’Rourke, and Charles Sabel. 2001. Can we Put
an End to Sweatshops? A New Democracy Forum on Raising Global
Labor Standards. Boston, MA: Beacon Press.

257

Galasso, Emanuela, and Martin Ravallion. 2005. “Decentralized
Targeting of an Anti-poverty Program.” Journal of Public Economics 89(4):705–27.
Galiani, Sebastián, Paul Gertler, and Ernesto Schargrodsky. 2002.
“Water for Life: The Impact of the Privatization of Water Services on Child Mortality.” Stanford, CA: Stanford University,
Center for Research on Economic Development and Policy
Reform Working Paper 154.
Galiani, Sebastián, and Ernesto Schargrodsky. 2002. “Evaluating the
Impact of School Decentralization on Ecucational Quality.”
Economía 2(2):275–314.
————. 2004. “Effects of Land Titling.” Paper presented at the
World Bank Poverty and Applied Micro Seminar Series. October
6. Washington, DC.
Galli, Rossana, and David Kucera. 2004. “Labor Standards and
Informal Employment in Latin America.” World Development
32(5):809–828.
Garapon, Antoine, eds. 2003. Les Juges Un Pouvoir Irresponsable?
Paris: Éditions Nicolas Philippe.
García-Montalvo, José, and Marta Reynal-Querol. Forthcoming.
“Why Ethnic Fractionalization? Polarization, Conflict and
Growth.” American Economic Review.
Geertz, Clifford. 1963. Peddlers and Princes; Social Change and Economic Modernization in Two Indonesian Towns. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Gerschenkron, Alexander. 1962. Economic Backwardness in Historical Perspective: A Books of Essays. Cambridge: Belknap Press of
Harvard University Press.
Gertler, Paul, and Sarah Barber. 2004. “The Returns to Investing in
Quality Healthcare.” Institute of Business and Economic
Research, University of California. Berkeley, CA. Processed.
Gertler, Paul, and Jonathan Gruber. 2002. “Insuring Consumption
against Illness.” American Economic Review 92(1):51–76.
Gibson, Christopher, and Michael Woolcock. 2005. “Empowerment
and Local Level Conflict Mediation in Indonesia: A Comparative
Analysis of Concepts, Measures, and Project Efficacy.” World
Bank. Washington, DC. Processed.
Gill, A., and U. C. Singh. 1977.“Financial Sector Reforms, Rate of Interest and the Rural Credit Markets: The Role of Informal Lenders in
Punjab.” Indian Journal of Applied Economics 6(4):37–65.
Glaeser, Edward L., Simon Johnson, and Andrei Shleifer. 2001. “Coase
versus the Coasians.” Quarterly Journal of Economics 116(3):853–99.
Glaeser, Edward L., José Sheinkman, and Andrei Shleifer. 2003.
“The Injustice of Inequality.” Journal of Monetary Economics
50(1):199–222.
Glewwe, Paul, Nauman Ilias, and Michael Kremer. 2003. “Teacher
Incentives.” Cambridge, MA: National Bureau of Economic
Research Working Paper Series 9671.
Glewwe, Paul, Michael Kremer, and Sylvie Moulin. 2002. “Textbooks and Test Scores: Evidence from a Prospective Evaluation in
Kenya.” Harvard University. Cambridge, MA. Available on line at
http://post.economics.harvard.edu/faculty/kremer/webpapers/
Textbooks_Test_Scores.pdf. Processed.
Glewwe, Paul, Michael Kremer, Sylvie Moulin, and Eric Zitzewitz.
2004. “Retrospective vs. Prospective Analyses of School Inputs:

258

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

The Case of Flip Charts in Kenya.” Journal of Development Economics 74(1):251–68.
Goesling, Brian, and Glenn Firebaugh. 2004.“The Trend in International
Health Inequality.”Population and Development Review 30(1):131–46.
Goetz, Stephan J. 1992. “A Selectivity Model of Household Food
Marketing Behavior in Sub-Saharan Africa.” American Journal of
Agricultural Economics 74(2):444–52.
Goldin, Ian, Kenneth A. Reinert, and Andrew Beath. Forthcoming.
“Migration.” In Ian Goldin and Kenneth A. Reinert (ed.) Globalization and Poverty. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Goldstein, Markus, and Christopher Udry. 1999. “Agricultural
Innovation and Resource Management in Ghana.” Yale University. New Haven, CT. Processed.
————. 2002. “Gender, Land Rights and Agriculture in Ghana.”
Yale University. New Haven, CT. Processed.
Gottfredson, Denise. 1998. “School-based Crime Prevention.” In
Lawrence W. Sherman, Denise Gottfredson, Doris MacKenzie,
John Eck, Peter Reuter, and Shawn Bushway, (ed.), Preventing
Crime. What Works. What Doesn’t. What’s Promising. Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Justice.
Graham, Carol, and Andrew Felton. 2005. “Does Inequality Matter
to Individual Welfare?: An Initial Exploration based on Happiness Surveys from Latin America.” Washington, DC: Brooking
Institution, CSED Working Paper 138. Available on line at
http://www.brookings.edu/es/dynamics/papers/csed_wp38.pdf.
Graham, Jean, and Benjamin Bowling. 1995. “Young People and
Crime.” London: Home Office Research Study 145.
Grantham-McGregor, S, and C. Ani. 2001. “A Review of Studies on
the Effect of Iron Deficiency on Cognitive Development in Children.” Journal of Nutrition 131(2S-2):649S–668S.
Grantham-McGregor, S., C. Powell, S. P. Walker, and J. H. Himes.
1991. “Nutritional Suplementation, Pshychosocial Stimulation,
and Mental Development of Stunted Children: The Jamaican
Study.” The Lancet 338(8758):1–5.
Gravois, John. 1-28-2005. “The De Soto Delusion.” Slate.
Greenwood, Peter W., Karyn T. Model, C. Peter Rydell, and James
Chiesa. 1998. Diverting Children from a Life of Crime: Measuring
Cost and Benefits. Santa Monica, CA: Rand Corporation.
Grindle, Merilee S. 2004. Despite The Odds: Contentious Politics of
Education Reform. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
Guasch, J. Luis. 2003. Concessions of Infrastructure Services: Incidence and Determinants of Renegotiation: An Empirical Evaluation and Guidelines for Optimal Concession Design. Washington,
DC: World Bank Institute.
Guggenheim, Scott. Forthcoming. “Crises and Contradictions:
Understanding the Origins of a Community Development Project in Indonesia.” In Anthony Bebbington, Scott Guggenheim,
Elizabeth Olson, and Michael Woolcock (ed.) The Search for
Empowerment: Social Capital as Idea and Practice at the World
Bank. Bloomfield, CT: Kumarian Press.
Guiso, Luigi, Paola Sapienza, and Luigi Zingales. 2004. “Does Local
Financial Development Matter?” Quarterly Journal of Economics
119(3):929–69.
Gulyani, Sumila, Debabrata Talukdar, and R. Mukami Kariuki.
2005. “Water for the Urban Poor: Water Markets, Household

Demand, and Service Preferences in Kenya.” Washington, DC:
World Bank Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Board Discussion Paper Series 5.
Gunning, Jan Willem, John Hoddinott, Bill Kinsey, and Trudy
Owens. 2000. “Revisiting Forever Gained: Income Dynamics in
the Resettlement Areas of Zimbabwe, 1983–96.” Journal of Development Studies 36(6):131–54.
Gunther, Richard, José Ramón Montero, and Joan Botella. 2004.
Democracy in Modern Spain. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press.
Gupta, Sanjeev, Benedict Clements, Alexander Pivovarsky, and
Erwin R. Tiongson. 2003. “Foreign Aid and Revenue Response:
Does the Composition of Aid Matter?” Washington, DC: International Monetary Fund Working Paper Series WP/03/176.
Gurr, Ted Robert. 1997. “Polity II: Political Structures and
Regime Change, 1800–1986.” Ann Arbor, MI: ICSPR Study No.
9263. Available on line at http://webapp.icpsr.umich.edu/cocoon/
ICPSR-STUDY/09263.xml.
Gwatkin, Davidson R. 2002. “The Poor Come Last: SocioEconomic Inequalities in Use of Maternal and Child Health Services in Developing Countries.” Paper presented at the Presentation at the Meeting of the Fogarty International Center. July 24.
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD.
Gwatkin, Davidson R., Shea Rutstein, Kiersten Johnson, Eldaw
Abdalla Suliman, and Adam Wagstaff. 2004. Socio-economic differences in health, nutrition, and population, volumes I–III. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Haber, Stephen. 2004. “Political Institutions and Economic Development: Evidence from the Banking Systems of the United States
and Mexico.” Paper presented at the Economics, Political Institutions, and Financial Markets II: Institutional Theory and Evidence from Europe, the United States, and Latin America Conference. February 5. Palo Alto, CA.
Haber, Stephen, and Shawn Kantor. 2004. “Getting Privatization
Wrong: The Mexican Banking System, 1991–2003.” Paper presented at the World Bank Conference on Bank Privatizacion in
Low and Middle-Income Countries. November 23. Washington,
DC.
Haber, Stephen, and Noel Maurer. 2004. “Related Lending and Economic Performance: Evidence from Mexico.” Paper presented at
the Sixty Fifth Annual Meeting of the American Finance Association. January 7. Philadelphia.
Haber, Stephen, Maurer Noel, and Armando Razo. 2003. The Politics of Property Rights: Political Instability, Credible Commitments,
and Economic Growth in Mexico: 1876–1929. Cambridge, UK:
Cambridge University Press.
Haber, Stephen H. 2001. “Political Institutions and Banking Systems: Lessons from the Economic Histories of Mexico and the
United States, 1790–1914.” Department of Political Science,
Stanford University. Stanford, CA. Processed.
Haggard, Stephan. 1990. Pathways from the Periphery: The Politics of
Growth in the Newly Industrializing Countries. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press.
Haggard, Stephan, Wonhyuk Lim, and Euysung Kim, eds. 2003.
Economic Crisis and Corporate Restructuring in Korea: Reforming
the Chaebol. New York: Cambridge University Press.

References

Halac, Marina, and Sergio L. Schmukler. 2003. “Distribution Effects
of Crises: The Role of Financial Transfers.” Washington, DC:
World Bank Policy Research Working Paper Series 3173.
Hall, Gillette, and Harry Anthony Patrinos, eds. 2005. Indigenous
Peoples, Poverty and Human Development in Latin America:
1994–2004. New York: Palgrave MacMillan.
Hall, Robert E., and Charles I. Jones. 1999. “Why Do Some Countries Produce so Much More Output per Worker than Others?”
Quarterly Journal of Economics 114(1):83–116.
Hamid, N. 1983. “Growth of Small-scale Industry in Pakistan.” Pakistan Economic and Social Review 21(1-2):37–76.
Hamilton, Bob, and John Whalley. 1984. “Efficiency and Distributional Implications of Global Restrictions on Labor Mobility.”
Journal of Development Economics 14(1-2):61–75.
Hammergreen, Linn. 2004. “Use and Users Study of the Justice System in Peru.” World Bank. Washington, DC. Processed.
Hansen, Henrik, and Finn Tarp. 2001. “Aid and Growth Regressions.” Journal of Development Economics 64(2):547–70.
Hanson, Gordon H. 2003. “What Has Happened to Wages in Mexico since NAFTA? Implications for Hemispheric Free Trade.”
Cambridge, MA: National Bureau of Economic Research Working Paper Series 9563.
Hanushek, Eric A. 1986. “The Economics of Schooling: Production
and Efficiency in Public Schools.” Journal of Economic Literature
24(3):1141–77.
————. 1996. “School Resources and Student Performance.” In
Gary Burtless, (ed.), Does Money Matter? The Effects of School
Resources on Student Achievement and Adult Success. Washington,
DC: Brookings Institution.
Hanushek, Eric A., and Ludger Wößman. 2005. “Does Educational
Tracking Affect Performance and Inequality? Differences-inDifferences Evidence Across Countries.” Cambridge, MA: National
Bureau of Economic Research Working Paper Series 11124.
Harber, Clive. 1999. Protecting Your School from Violence and Crime:
An Evaluation of One-Year Programme. KwaZulu-Natal, South
Africa: Independent Project Trust.
Hargreaves, James R., and Judith R. Glynn. 2002. “Educational
Attainment and HIV Infection in Developing Countries: A Systematic Review.” Tropical Medicine and International Health
7(6):489–98.
Harsanyi, John C. 1955. “Cardinal Welfare, Individualistic Ethics,
and Interpersonal Comparisons of Utility.” Journal of Political
Economy 63(4):309–21.
Hart, Betty, and Todd R. Risley. 1995. Meaningful Differences in
Everyday Experiences of Young American Children. Baltimore,
MD: Paul H. Brookes Publishing Co.
Hasan, Rana, Devashish Mitra, and K. V. Ramaswamy. 2003. “Trade
Reforms, Labor Regulations and Labor-demand Elasticities:
Empirical Evidence from India.” Cambridge, MA: National
Bureau of Economic Research Working Paper Series 9879.
Hashemi, Syed. 2000. “Linking Microfinance and Safety Net Programs to Include the Poorest: The Case of IGVGD in
Bangladesh.” Washington, DC: World Bank, Focus Notes 21.
Haslam, Alexander S. 2001. Psychology in Organizations: The Socialidentity Approach. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications Ltd.

259

Heckman, James, and Dimitri V. Masterov. 2004. “The Productivity
Argument for Investing in Young Children.” Washington, DC:
Committee for Economic Development Working Paper 5.
Heise, L., M. Ellsberg, and M. Gottemoeller. 1999. “Ending Violence
Against Women.” Baltimore, MD: Johns Hopkins University
School of Public Health, Population Information Program Population Report Series L, number 11.
Hellman, Joel S., Geraint Jones, and Daniel Kaufmann. 2003. “Seize
the State, Seize the Day: State Capture and Influence in Transition
Economies.” Journal of Comparative Economics 31(4):751–73.
Hemming, John. 1970. The Conquest of the Incas. London: Papermac.
Henrich, Joseph, Robert Boyd, Samuel Bowles, Colin Camerer,
Ernst Fehr, and Herbert Gintis, eds. 2004. Foundations of
Human Society: Economic Experiments and Ethnographic Evidence from Fifteen Small-Scale Societies. New York: Oxford
University Press.
Hertel, Thomas W., and L. Alan Winters. Forthcoming. “Putting
Development Back into the Doha Agenda: Poverty Impacts of a
WTO Agreement.” World Bank. Washington, DC. Processed.
Hertz, Thomas. 2001. “Education, Inequality and Economic Mobility in South Africa.” PhD thesis. University of Massachussetts.
————. 2005. “Rags, Riches and Race: The Intergenerational
Economic Mobility of Black and White Families in the U.S.” In
Sam Bowles, Herb Gintis, and Melissa Osborne Grove, (ed.),
Unequal Chances. Family Background and Economic Success.
Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
Herz, Barbara, and Gene B. Sperling. 2004. What Works in Girls’
Education. New York: Council on Foreign Relations.
Hoff, Karla. 2003. “Paths of Institutional Development: A View from
Economic History.” World Bank Research Observer 18(2):2205–26.
Hoff, Karla, and Priyanka Pandey. 2004. “Belief Systems and
Durable Inequalities: An Experimental Investigation of Indian
Caste.” Washington, DC: World Bank Policy Research Working
Paper Series 3351.
Hoffman, Elizabeth, Kevin A. McCabe, and Vernon L. Smith. 1996.
“On Expectations and Monetary Stakes in Ultimatum Games.”
International Journal of Game Theory 25(3):289–301.
Holmes, George M., Jeff DeSimone, and Nicholas G. Rupp. 2003.
“Does School Choice Increase School Quality?” Cambridge, MA:
National Bureau of Economic Research Working Paper Series
9683.
Holzer, Harry, and David Neumark. 2000. “Assessing Affirmative
Action.” Journal of Economic Literature 38(3):483–568.
Holzmann, Robert, and Richard Hinz. 2005. Old-Age Income Support in the Twenty-First Century: An International Perspective on
Pension Systems and Reform. Washington, DC: World Bank. Available on line at http://www1.worldbank.org/sp/incomesupport.
asp.
Holzmann, Robert, and Steen Jorgensen. 2001. “Social Risk Management: A New Conceptual Framework for Social Protection and
Beyond.” Washington, DC: World Bank, Social Protection Discussion Paper 0006.
Honohan, Patrick. 2004. Financial Sector Policy and the Poor:
Selected Findings and Issues. Washington, DC: World Bank.

260

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Honohan, Patrick, and Daniela Klingebiel. 2000. “Controlling the
Fiscal Costs of Banking Crises.” Washington, DC: World Bank
Policy Research Working Paper Series 2441.
Hoogeveen, Hans. 2003. “Census-Based Welfare Estimates for Small
Populations: Poverty and Disability in Uganda.” World Bank.
Washington, DC. Processed.
Hoogeveen, Johannes, Emil Tesliuc, Renos Vakis, and Stefan Dercon. 2004. “A Guide to the Analysis of Risk, Vulnerability and
Vulnerable Groups.” World Bank. Washington, DC. Available on
line at http://siteresources.worldbank.org/INTSRM/Publications/
20316319/RVA.pdf. Processed.
Hoxby, Caroline M. 2000. “Does Competition Among Public
Schools Benefit Students and Taxpayers?” American Economic
Review 90(5):1209–38.
————. 2002. “School Choice and School Productivity (or
Could School Choice be a Tide that Lifts All Boats?).” Cambridge, MA: National Bureau of Economic Research Working
Paper Series 8873.
Hsieh, Chang-Tai, and Miguel Urquiola. 2003. “When Schools
Compete, How Do They Compete? An Assessment of
Chile’s Nationwide School Voucher Program.” Cambridge, MA:
National Bureau of Economic Research Working Paper Series
10008.
Human Rights Watch. 2000. United States Punishment and Prejudice: The Racial Disparities in the War on Drugs. New York:
Human Rights Watch. Available on line at http://www.hrw.org/
reports/2000/usa/.
Ilahi, Nadeem, and Franque Grimard. 2000. “Public Infrastructure
and Private Costs: Water Supply and Time Allocation of Women
in Rural Pakistan.” Economic Development and Cultural Change
49(1):45–75.
Ilahi, Nadeem, and Saqib Jafarey. 1999. “Guestworker Migration,
Remittances, and the Extended Family: Evidence from Pakistan.”
Journal of Development Economics 58(2):485–512.
ILO. 2002. Women and Men in the Informal Economy: A Statistical
Picture. Geneva: International Labour Organization. Available
on line at http://www.ilo.org/public/english/employment/gems/
download/women.pdf.
————. 2003. Investing in Every Child—An Economic Study of the
Costs and Benefits of Eliminating Child Labor. Geneva: International Labour Organization. Available on line at http://www.
ilo.org/public/english/standards/ipec/publ/download/2003_12_
investingchild.pdf.
India Today. 12-13-2004. “Rural Markets: Call of the Countryside.”
India Today.
Inglehart, Ronald, Miguel Basáñez, Jaime Díez-Medrano, Loek Halman, and Ruud Luijkx, eds. 2004. Human Beliefs and Values: A
Cross-cultural Sourcebook based on the 1999–2002 Values Surveys.
Mexico, DF: Siglo Veinteiuno.
International Confederation of Free Trade Unions. 2005. The
Impact of the Ending of Quotas on the Textile Industry. Cambodia:
Increasing Pressure on Trade Union Rights. Brussels: International
Confederation of Free Trade Unions. Available on line at
http://www.icftu.org/displaydocument.asp?Index=991221551&
Language=EN.

International Cotton Advisory Committee. 2003. Production and
Trade Policies Affecting the Cotton Industry. A Report by the Secretariat. Washington, DC: International Cotton Advisory Committee. Available on line at http://www.icac.org/cotton_info/
publications/statistics/stats_wtd/prod_trade_policies_03.pdf.
International Fund for Agricultural Development. 2001. Rural
Poverty Report 2001: The Challenge of Ending Rural Poverty.
Oxford: Oxford University Press. Available on line at
http://www.ifad.org.
Irwin, Timothy, and Chiaki Yamamoto. 2004. “Improving the Governance of State-owned Electricity Utilities.” Washington, DC: World
Bank Energy and Mining Sector Board Discussion Paper 11.
Jacoby, Hanan G., Guo Li, and Scott Rozelle. 2002. “Hazards of
Expropriation: Tenure Insecurity and Investment in Rural
China.” American Economic Review 92(5):1420–47.
Jalan, Jyostna, and Martin Ravallion. 1997. “Spatial Poverty Traps?”
Washington, DC: World Bank Policy Research Working Paper
Series 1862.
————. 2002. “Geographic Poverty Traps? A Micro Model of
Consumption Growth in Rural China.” Journal of Applied Econometrics 17(4):329–46.
————. 2003. “Does Piped Water Reduce Diarrhea for Children
in Rural India?” Journal of Econometrics 112(1):153–73.
Jalan, Jyotsna, and Martin Ravallion. 1999. “Income Gains to the
Poor from Workfare: Estimates for Argentina’s Trabajar Program.” Washington, DC: World Bank Policy Research Working
Paper Series 2149.
James, Estelle. 2000. “Old-age Protection for the Uninsured: What
are the Issues?” In Nora Lustig, (ed.), Shielding the Poor: Social
Protection in the Developing World. Washington, DC: Brookings
Institutiond and Inter-american Development Bank.
Jäntti, Markus, Juho Saari, and Juhana Vartiainen. 2005. “Country
Case Study: Finland-Combining Growth with Equity.” Background paper for the WDR 2006.
Jha, Saumitra, Vijayendra Rao, and Michael Woolcock. Forthcoming. “Governance in the Gullies: Democratic Responsiveness and Community Leadership in Delhi’s Slums.” World
Development.
Johnson, Simon, and Todd Mitton. 2003. “Cronyism and Capital
Controls: Evidence from Malaysia.” Journal of Financial Economics 67(2):351–82.
Jonakin, Jon. 1996. “The Impact of Structural Adjustment and
Property Rights Conflicts on Nicaraguan Agrarian Reform Beneficiaries.” World Development 24(7):1179–91.
Kabeer, Naila. 1997. “Women, Wages and Intra-household Power Relations in Urban Bangladesh.” Development and Change 28(2):261–302.
————. 1999. “Resources, Agency, Achievements: Reflections on
the Measurement of Women’s Empowerment.” Development and
Change 30(3):435–64.
Kakwani, Nanak, and Kalanidhi Subbarao. 2005. Ageing and Poverty
in Africa and the Role of Social Pensions. Washington, DC: World
Bank. Available on line at http://www-wds.worldbank.org/.
Kanbur, Rabi. 2000. “Income Distribution and Development.” In
Anthony B. Atkinson and François Bourguignon, (ed.), Handbook of Income Distribution. Amsterdam: North Holland.

References

Kanbur, Rabi, and Xiaobo Zhang. 2001. “Fifty Years of Regional
Inequality in China: A Journey through Revolution, Reform and
Openness.” London: Centre for Economic Policy Research Discussion Paper 2887.
Kanbur, Ravi. 2005. “Pareto’s Revenge.” Cornell University. Ithaca,
NY. Available on line at http://www.arts.cornell.edu/poverty/
kanbur/ParRev.pdf. Processed.
Kang, David C. 2002. Crony Capitalism: Corruption and Development in South Korea and the Philippines. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
Kariuki, Mukami, and Jordan Schwartz. 2005. “Small-Scale Private
Service Providers of Water Supply and Electricity: A Review of
Incidence, Structure, Pricing and Operating Characteristics.”
World Bank—Energy and Water Department, Bank Netherlands
Water Partnership, Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility. Washington, DC. Processed.
Karr-Morse, Robin, and Meredith S. Wiley. 1977. Ghost from the
Nursery: Tracing the Roots of Violence. New York: Atlantic
Monthly Press.
Kaufmann, Daniel, and Aart Kraay. 2002. “Growth without Governance.” Economia 3(1):169–215.
Kaufmann, Daniel, Aart Kraay, and Massimo Mastruzzi. 2004.
“Governance Matters III: Governance Indicators for 1996, 1998,
2000, and 2002.” World Bank Economic Review 18(2):253–87.
————. 2005. “Governance Matters IV: Governance Indicators
for 1996–2004.” World Bank. Washington, DC. Available on line
at http://www.worldbank.org/wbi/governance/pubs/govmatters4.
html. Processed.
Kevane, Michael. 1996. “Agrarian Structure and Agricultural Practice: Typology and Application to Western Sudan.” American
Journal of Agricultural Economics 78(1):236–245.
Khan, Azizur Rahman, and Binayak Sen. 2001. “Inequality and Its
Sources in Bangladesh: 1991/92 to 1995/96: An Analysis Based
on Household Expenditure Surveys.” Bangladesh Development
Studies 27(1):1–50.
Khandker, Shahidur, Victor Lavy, and Deon Filmer. 1994. “Schooling and Cognitive Achievements of Children in Morocco: Can
the Government Improve Outcomes?” Washington, DC: World
Bank Discussion Paper 264.
Khwaja, Asim Ijaz, and Atif Mian. 2004. “Unchecked Intermediaries: Price Manipulation in an Emerging Stock Market.”
Boston: Bureau for Research in Economic Analysis of Development Working Paper 061. Available on line at http://www.cid.
harvard.edu/bread/papers/working/061.pdf.
Kijima, Yoko, and Peter Lanjouw. 2004. “Agricultural Wages, NonFarm Employment and Poverty in Rural India.” World Bank.
Washington, DC. Processed.
King, Elizabeth M., Peter F. Orazem, and Elizabeth M. Paterno.
1999. “Promotion with and without Learning: Effects on Students Dropouts.” Washington, DC: World Bank Working Paper
Series on Impact Evaluation of Education Reforms No. 18.
King, Steve. 1997. “Poor Relief and English Economic Development
Reappraised.” Economic History Review 50(2):360–68.
————. 2000. Poverty and Welfare in England, 1700-1850: A
Regional Perspective. Manchester, UK: Manchester University Press.

261

Kingdon, Geeta, Justin Sandefur, and Francis Teal. 2005. “Patterns
of Labor Demand in Sub-Saharan Africa: A Review paper.” Centre for the Study of African Economies, Department of Economics, University of Oxford. Oxford, UK. Processed.
Kinsey, Bill H., and Hans P. Binswansger. 1993. “Characteristics and
Performance of Resettlement Programs: A Review.” World Development 21(9):1477–94.
Kirpal, Simone. 2002. “Communities Can Make a Difference: Five
Cases Across Continents.” In Mary Eming Young, (ed.), From
Early Childhood Development to Human Development: Investing
in our Children’s Future. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Klarén, Peter Flindell. 2000. Peru: Society and Nationhood in the
Andes. New York: Oxford University Press.
Klasen, Stephen. 2005. Comments on “Hepatitis B and the Case of
the Missing Women” by Emily Oster. University of Göttingen.
Processed.
Knack, Steven, and Philip Keefer. 1995. “Institutions and Economic
Performance: Cross-Country Tests using Alternative Measures.”
Economics and Politics 7(3):207–27.
Kolm, Serge-Christophe. 1976. “Unequal Inequalities I.” Journal of
Economic Theory 12(3):416–42.
Korinek, Anton, Johan Mistiaen, and Martin Ravallion. Forthcoming. “Survey Non-response and the Distribution of Income.”
Journal of Economic Inequality.
Kraay, Aart. Forthcoming. “When is Growth Pro-Poor? Evidence
from a Panel of Countries.” Journal of Development Economics.
Kranton, Rachel E., and Anand V. Swamy. 1999. “The Hazards of
Piecemeal Reform: British Civil Courts and the Credit Market in
Colonial India.” Journal of Development Economics 58(1):1–24.
Kremer, Michael. 1993. “The O-Ring Theory of Economic Development.” Quarterly Journal of Economics 108(3):551–75.
Kremer, Michael, and Rache Glennester. 2004. Strong Medicine Creating Incentives for Pharmaceutical Research on Neglected Diseases. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
Kremer, Michael, Edward Miguel, and Rebecca Thornton. 2004.
“Incentives to Learn.” Cambridge, MA: National Bureau of Economic Research Working Paper Series 10971.
Kremer, Michael, Sylvie Moulin, and Robert Namunyu. 2002.
“Unbalanced Decentralization.” Harvard University. Cambridge, MA. Available on line at http://econ.bu.edu/dilipm/
40-kremounam.pdf. Processed.
Kritzer, Herbert M. 2002. Legal Systems of the World: A Political,
Social and Cultural Encyclopedia. Santa Barbara, CA: ABC-CLIO.
Krueger, Alan B., and Alexandre Mas. 2004. “Strikes, Scabs, and
Tread Separations: Labor Strife and the Production of Defective Bridgestone/Firestone Tires.” Journal of Political Economy
112(2):253–89.
Krugman, Paul. 1979. “A Model of Balance-of-Payments Crises.”
Journal of Money, Credit, and Banking 11(3):311–25.
————. 1999. “Balance Sheets, the Transfer Problem and
Financial Crises.” In P. Isard, A. Razin, A. K. Rose, and Kluwer
Dordrecht, (ed.), International Finance and Financial Crises,
Essays in Honor of Robert P. Flood. Netherlands and Washington, DC: Kluwer Academic Publishers and International Monetary Fund.

262

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Kugler, Adriana. 2004. “The Effect of Job Security Regulations on
Labor Market Flexibility: Evidence from the Colombian Labor
Market Reform.” Cambridge, MA: National Bureau of Economic
Research Working Paper Series 10215.
Kugler, Adriana, Juan F. Jimeno, and Virginia Hernanz. 2003.“Employment Consequences of Restrictive Permanent Contracts.” London:
Centre for Economic Policy Research Discussion Paper 3724.
Kumar, Anjali. 2005. Assessing Financial Access In Brazil. Washington, DC: World Bank.
La Porta, Rafael, Florencio López-de-Silanes, and Guillermo
Zamarripa. 2002. “Related Lending.” Cambridge, MA: National
Bureau of Economic Research Working Paper Series 8848.
Ladd, Hellen F. 2002. “School Vouchers: A Critical View.” Journal of
Economic Perspectives 16(4):3–24.
Laffont, Jean-Jacques, and Mohamed Salah Matoussi. 1995. “Moral
Hazard, Financial Constraints and Sharecropping in El Oulja.”
Review of Economic Studies 62(3):381–99.
Lagos, Marta (2005). Personal communication with Marta Lagos,
Director, Latinobarómetro.
Lang, James. 1975. Conquest and Commerce: Spain and England in
the Americas. New York: Academic Press.
Langseth, Petter, and Oliver Stolpe. 2001. Strengthening Judicial
Corruption against Corruption. Vienna: United Nations Office for
Drug Control and Crime Prevention, Global Programme Against
Corruption. Available on line at http://www.unodc.org/pdf/
crime/gpacpublications/cicp10.pdf.
Lanjouw, Jean O. 2002. “A New Global Patent Regime for Diseases:
U.S. and International Legal Issues.” Harvard Journal of Law and
Technology 16(1):85–124.
————. 2004. Outline of the Foreign Filing License Approach.
Washington, DC: Center for Global Development.
Lanjouw, Jean O., and William Jack. 2004. “Trading Up: How Much
Should Poor Countries Pay to Support Pharmaceutical Innovation?” CGD Brief 4(3):1–8.
Lanjouw, Jean O., and Margaret MacLeod. 2005. “Statistics Trends
in Research on Tropical Diseases.” Berkeley University. Berkeley,
CA. Available on line at http://www.who.int/intellectualproperty/
studies/Lanjouw_Statistical%20Trends.pdf. Processed.
Lanjouw, Peter, and Martin Ravallion. 2005. “Progresiveness of
Social and Infrastructure Spending in India.” World Bank. Washington, DC. Processed.
Larrain, Mauricio. 1989. “How the 1981–1983 Chilean Banking Crisis
was Handled.” Washington, DC: World Bank Working Paper 300.
Lavy, Victor. 1996. “School Supply Constraints and Children’s Educational Outcomes in Rural Ghana.” Journal of Development Economics 51(2):291–314.
Lees, Lynn Hollen. 1998. The Solidarities of Strangers: The English Poor
Laws and the People. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
Leipziger, Danny, Marianne Fay, Quentin Wodon, and Tito Yepes.
2003. “Achieving the Millennium Development Goals: The Role
of Infrastructure.” Washington, DC: World Bank Policy Research
Working Paper Series 3163.
Leonard, Kenneth L., and Melkiory C. Masatu. 2005. “Variation in
the Quality of Care Accessible to Rural Communities in Tanzania.” University of Maryland. College Park, MD. Processed.

Levin, Victoria. 2005a. “Updating Aid Allocation Estimates.” Background Note for the WDR Note 2006.
———. 2005b. “Updating the Poverty-efficient Aid Allocation to
2001.” World Bank. Washington, DC. Processed.
Levin, Victoria, and David Dollar. 2005. “The Forgotten States: Aid
Volumes and Volatility in Difficult Partnership Countries
(1992–2002).” OECD, DAC Learning and Advisory Process on
Difficult Partnerships. Paris. Available on line at http://www.
oecd.org/dataoecd/32/44/34687926.pdf. Processed.
Lewin, Bryan, Daniele Giovannucci, and Panos Varangis. 2004.
“Coffee Markets: New Paradigms in Global Supply and
Demand.” Washington, DC: World Bank, Agriculture and Rural
Development Discussion Paper 3.
Lewis, Arthur. 1954. “Economic Development with Unlimited Supplies of Labor.” Manchester School of Economic and Social Studies
22(2):139–91.
Lewis, M. 2002. “Informal Health Payments in Central and Eastern
Europe and the Former Soviet Union: Issues, Trends and Policy
Implications.” In Elias Mossialos, Ana Dixon, Josep Figueras, and
Joe Kutzin, (ed.), Funding Health Care: Options for Europe. Buckingham: Open University Press.
Lewis, Stephen. 2003. “Opening Address to the 13th International
Conference on AIDS and STIs in Africa (ICASA).” Paper presented at the 13th International Conference on AIDS and STIs in
Africa (ICASA). September 21. Nairobi.
Li, Hongyi, Lyn Squire, and Heng-fu Zou. 1998. “Explaining International and Intertemporal Variations in Income Inequality.”
Economic Journal 108(446):26–43.
Li, Hongyi, and Heng-fu Zou. 1998. “Income Inequality is not
Harmful for Growth: Theory and Evidence.” Review of Development Economics 2(3):318–34.
Li, R., X. Chen, H. Yan, P. Deurenberg, L. Garby, and J. G. Hautvast.
1994. “Functional Consequences of Iron Supplementation in
Iron-deficient female Cotton Workers in Beijing China.” American Journal of Clinical Nutrition 59(4):908–13.
Liddle, R. William. 1991. “The Relative Autonomy of the Third
World Politician: Soeharto and Indonesian Economic Development in Comparative Perspective.” International Studies Quarterly 35(4):403–27.
Lillard, Lee A., and Robert J. Willis. 1994. “Intergenerational Educational Mobility: Effects of Family and State in Malaysia.” Journal
of Human Resources 29(4):1126–66.
Lindert, Peter H. 2003. “Voice and Growth: Was Churchill Right?”
Journal of Economic History 63(2):315–50.
————. 2004. Growing Public: Social Spending and Economics
Growth since the Eighteenth Century. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge
University Press.
Lindert, Peter H., and Jeffrey G. Williamson. 1982. “Revising England’s Social Tables, 1688–1812.” Explorations in Economic History 19(4):385–408.
————. 1983. “Reinterpreting Britain’s Social Tables, 1688–1913.”
Explorations in Economic History 20(1):94–109.
Lipset, Seymour M. 1959. “Some Social Requisites of Democracy:
Economic Development and Political Legitimacy.” American
Political Science Review 53(1):69–105.

References

Llorente, María, and Angela Rivas. 2005. “Reduction of Crime in
Bogota: A Decade of Citizen’s Security Policies.” World Bank,
Department of Finance, Private Secton and Infrastructure.
Washington, DC. Processed.
Lloyd, Cynthia B., eds. 2005. Growing up Global: The Changing
Transitions to Adulthood in Developing Countries. Washington,
DC: The National Academies Press.
Lloyd, Tim, Wyn Morgan, Tony Rayner, and Charlotte Vaillant.
1999. “The Transmission of World Agricultural Prices in Côte
d’Ivoire.” Journal of International Trade and Economic Development 8(1):125–41.
Lockhart, James B. 1969. “Encomienda and Hacienda: The Evolution of the Great Estate in the Spanish Indies.” Hispanic American
Historical Review 49(3):411–29.
Lockhart, James B., and Stuart B. Schwartz. 1983. Early Latin America: A History of Colonial Spanish and America and Brazil. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
Lokshin, Michael, and Martin Ravallion. 2000. “Welfare Impacts of
the 1998 Financial Crisis in Russia and the Response of the Public Safety Net.” Economics of Transition 8(2):269–95.
López, Alan D. 2000. “Reducing Chile’s Mortality.” Bulletin of the
World Health Organization 78(10):1173–73.
López, J. Humberto. 2004. “Pro-growth, Pro-poor: Is there a Tradeoff?” Washington, DC: World Bank Policy Research Working
Paper Series 3378.
Loury, Glenn C. 2002. The Anatomy of Racial Inequality. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Lucas, Robert. 2003. The Industrial Revolution: Past and Future.
Minneapolis: Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis.
Lund, Frances. 1999. “Understanding South African Social Security
through Recent Household Surveys: New Opportunities and
Continuing Gaps.” Development Southern Africa 16(1):55–67.
Lundberg, Mattias, and Lyn Squire. 2003. “The Simultaneous
Evolution of Growth and Inequality.” Economic Journal
113(487):326–44.
Lundberg, Shelley J., Robert A. Pollak, and Terence J. Wales. 1997.
“Do Husbands and Wives Pool their Resources?” Journal of
Human Resources 32(3):463–80.
Luttmer, Erzo F. P. 2004. “Neighbors as Negatives: Relative Earnings
and Well-Being.” Cambridge, MA: Faculty Research Working
Paper Series 4-029.
MacIntyre, Andrew. 2001a. “Institutions and Investors: The Politics
of the Economic Crisis in Southeast Asia.” International Organization 55(1):81–122.
————. 2001b. “Rethinking the Politics of Agricultural Policy
Making: The Importance of Institutions.” In J. Edgard Campos,
(ed.), The Evolving Roles of State, Private, and Local Actors in
Asian Rural Development. Cambridge, UK: Oxford University
Press.
Maddison, Angus. 1995. Monitoring the World Economy:1820–1992.
Paris: Development Centre of the Organisation for Economic
Co-operation and Development.
Mahoney, James. 2001. The Legacies of Liberalism: Path Dependence
and Political Regimes in Central America. Baltimore, MD: Johns
Hopkins University Press.

263

Malik, Waleed Haider. 2005. “Guatemala: The Role of Judicial Modernization in Post Conflict Reconciliation.” Washington, DC:
Social Development Notes, World Bank 99.
Malmberg Calvo, Christina. 1994. “Case Study on the Role of
Women in Rural Transport: Access of Women to Domestic
Facilities.” World Bank and Economic Commission for Africa,
Washington, DC: Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy Program
Working Paper 11.
Maloney, William F. 1999. “Does Informality Imply Segmentation
in Urban Labor Markets? Evidence from Sectoral Transitions in
Mexico.” World Bank Economic Review 13(2):275–302.
Maloney, William F., and Jairo Nuñez Mendez. 2004. “Measuring
the Impact of Minimum Wages, Evidence from Latin America.”
In James Heckman and Carmen Pagés, (ed.), Law and Labor
Markets. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Mamdani, Mahmood. 1996. Citizen and Subject: Contemporary
Africa and the Legacy of Late Colonialism. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
Manor, James. 1999. The Political Economy of Democratic Decentralization. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Marmot, Michael G. 2004. The Status Syndrome: How Social Standing Affects our Health and Longevity. New York: Times Books.
Mason, Karen O., and Helene M. Carlsson. Forthcoming. “The
Development Impact of Gender Equality in Land Rights.” In
Philip Alston and Mary Robinson (ed.) Human Rights and
Development: Towards Mutual Reinforcement. New York: Oxford
University Press.
Massey, D. 2001. “The Progress in Human Geography Lecture,
Geography on the Agenda.” Progress in Human Geography
25(1):5–17.
Masters, Williams A. 2005. “Paying for Prosperity: How and Why to
Invest in Agricultural R&D for Development in Africa.” Journal
of International Affairs 58(2):35–64.
Masters, Williams A., F. T. Sparrow, and Brian H. Bowen. 1999.
Modeling Electricity Trade in Southern Africa 1999–2000. West
Lafayette, Indiana: Purdue University. Available on line at
https://engineering.purdue.edu/IE/Research/PEMRG/PPDG/
SAPP/1999proposal.pdf.
Mattei, U. 1998. “Legal Pluralism, Legal Change and Economic
Development.” In Lyda Favali, E. Grande, and M. Guadagni,
(ed.), New Law for New States. Torino, Italy: L’Harmattan Italia.
Mattoo, Aaditya, Ileana Cristina Neagu, and Caglar Ozden. 2005.
“Brain Waste? Educated Immigrants in the U.S. Labor Market.”
Washington, DC: World Bank Policy Research Working Paper
Series 3581.
Maurer, Stephen M., Andrej Sali, and Arti Rai. 2004. “Finding Cures
for Tropical Disease: Is Open Source the Answer?” Public Library
of Science: Medicine 1(3):33–7.
Maynard, E., eds. 1966. The Indians of Colta. Essays on the Colta
Lake Zone, Chimborazo (Ecuador). Ithaca, NY: Cornell University.
Mazumder, Bhakshar. 2005. “The Apple Falls Even closer to the Tree
than We Thought: New and Revised Estimates of the Intergenerational Inheritance of Earnings.” In Samuel Bowles, Herbert Gintis, and Melissa Osborne Groves, (ed.), Unequal Chances: Family

264

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Background and Economic Success. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
McEwan, Patrick J. 2000. “The Impact of Vouchers on School Efficiency: Empirical Evidence from Chile.” Ph.D. thesis. Stanford
University.
McEwan, Patrick J., and Martin Carnoy. 2000. “The Effectiveness
and Efficiency of Private Schools in Chile’s Voucher System.”
Educational Evaluation and Policy Analysis 22(3):213–39.
McGillivray, Mark. 2005. “Aid Allocation and Fragile States.” Paper
presented at the Senior Level Forum on Development Effectiveness in Fragile States. January 13. London.
McKay, Andrew, Oliver Morrissey, and Charlotte Vaillant. 1997.
“Trade Liberalization and Agricultural Supply Response: A Study
of Rural Asia.” European Journal of Development 9(2):129–47.
McKenzie, David, and Dilip Mookherjee. 2003. “Distributive
Impact of Privatization in Latin America: An Overview of Evidence from Four Countries.” Economia 3(2):161–218.
McKenzie, David, and Hillel Rapoport. 2004. “Network Effects and
the Dynamics of Migration and Inequality: Theory and Evidence
from Mexico.” Washington DC: BREAD Working Paper Series 63.
McKenzie, David, and Christopher Woodruff. 2003. “Do Entry
Costs Provide an Empirical Basis for Poverty Traps? Evidence
from Mexican Microenterprises.” Cambridge, MA: Harvard University, Bureau for Research in Economic Analysis of Development (BREAD) Working Paper 20. Available on line at
http://www.cid.harvard.edu/bread/papers/working/020.pdf.
McMillan, Margaret, Dani Rodrik, and Karen Horn Welch. 2002.
“When Economic Reform Goes Wrong: Cashews in Mozambique.” Cambridge, MA: National Bureau of Economic Research
Working Paper Series 9117.
Meesen, Bruno, and Wim Van Damme. 2004. “Health Equity in
Cambodia, A New Approach to Fee Exemptions.” Paper presented at the Reaching the Poor with Effective Health, Nutrition,
and Population Services: What Works, What Doesn’t, and Why.
February 18. Washington, DC.
Melo, Jorge Orlando. 1996. Historia de Colombia: La Dominación
Española. Bogotá: Biblioteca Familiar.
Mendola, Mariapia. 2004. “Migration and Technological Change in
Rural Households: Complements or Substitutes?” Milano, Italy:
Centro Study Luca d’Agliano, Development Studies Working
Paper 195.
Mesnard, Alice, and Martin Ravallion. 2004. “The Wealth Effects on
New Business Startups in a Developing Economy.” Institute
of Fiscal Studies and World Bank. London, U.K. and Washington, DC. Available on line at http://www.cefims.ac.uk/pdfs/
mesnard_paper.pdf. Processed.
Meyer, Richard, and Geetha Nagarajan. 2000. “Rural Financial Markets in Asia: Policies, Paradigms, and Performance.” In Asian
Development Bank, (ed.), A Study of Rural Asia vol. 3. Hong
Kong, China: Oxford University Press for the Asian Development
Bank.
Miguel, Edward, and Michael Kremer. 2004. “Worms: Identifying
Impacts on Education and Health in the Presence of Treatment
Externalities.” Econometrica 72(1):159–217.

Milanovic, Branko. 2002. “Can We Discern the Effect of Globalization on Income Distribution? Evidence from Household Surveys.” Washington, DC: World Bank Policy Research Report
Working Paper Series 2876.
————. 2005. Worlds Apart: International and Global Inequality
1950-2000. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
Minot, Nicholas W. 1998. “Distributional and Nutritional Impact
of Devaluation in Rwanda.” Economic Development and Cultural
Change 46(2):379–402.
Minot, Nicholas W., and Lisa Daniels. 2002. “Impact of Global Cotton Markets on Rural Poverty in Benin.” Washington, DC: International Food Policy Research Institute Discussion Paper 48.
Minot, Nicholas W., and Francesco Goletti. 1998. “Rice Market Liberalization and Poverty in Vietnam.” Washington, DC: International Food Policy Research Institute Research Report 114.
Moene, Karl Ove, and Michael Wallerstein. 2002. “Social Democracy as a Development Strategy.” University of Oslo, Department
of Economics: Memorandum 35/2003.
Moncrieffe, Joy. 2005. “Beyond Categories: Power, Recognition, and
the Conditions for Equity.” Background paper for the WDR
2006.
Montenegro, Claudio E., and Carmen Pagés. 2004. “Who Benefits
from Labor Market Regulations?” In James Heckman and Carmen Pagés, (ed.), Law and Employment: Lessons from the Latin
American and the Caribbean. Chicago: University of Chicago
Press. Reprinted in Jorge Enrique Restrepo and Andrea Tokman
R. (ed.) “Labor Markets and Institutions,” (2005), Santiago de
Chile: Banco Central de Chile.
Montinola, Gabriela, Yingyi Qian, and Barry Weingast. 1995. “Federalism Chinese-Style: The Political Basis for Economic Success
in China.” World Politics 48(1):50–81.
Moore, Barrington Jr. 1966. The Social Origins of Dictatorship and
Democracy: Lord and Peasant in the Making of the Modern World.
Boston, MA: Beacon Press.
Moore, Mick. 2001. “Political Underdevelopment: What Causes
‘Bad Governance’?” Public Management Review 3(3):385–418.
————. 2004. “Revenues, State Formation, and the Quality of
Governance in Developing Countries.” International Political Science Review 25(3):297–319.
Morales, Juan Antonio, and Jeffrey D. Sachs. 1998. “Bolivia’s Economic Crisis.” Cambridge, MA: National Bureau of Economic
Research Working Paper Series 2620.
Morck, Randall, Daniel Wolfenzon, and Bernard Yeung. 2004. “Corporate Governance, Economic Entrenchment and Growth.”
Cambridge, MA: National Bureau of Economic Research Working Paper Series 10692.
Morck, Randall, and Bernard Yeung. 2004. “Special Issues Relating
to Corporate Governance and Family Control.” Washington, DC:
World Bank Policy Research Working Paper Series 3406.
Morck, Randall K., David A. Stangeland, and Bernard Yeung. 2000.
“Inherited Wealth, Corporate Control, and Economic Growth:
The Canadian Disease?” In Randall Morck, (ed.), Concentrated
Corporate Ownership. National Bureau of Economic Research
Conference Volume. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.

References

Morduch, Jonathan. 1993. “Risk Production and Saving: Theory
and Evidence from Indian Households.” Cambridge, MA. Harvard University. Processed.
Morgan, Edmund S. 1975. American Slavery, American Freedom:
The Ordeal of Colonial Virginia. New York: W. W. Norton & Co.
Morley, Samuel. 2001. The Income Distribution Problem in Latin
America and the Caribbean. Santiago de Chile: Economic Commission for Latin American and the Caribbean.
Morley, Samuel, and David Coady. 2003. From Social Assistance to
Social Development: A Review of Targeted Education Subsidies in
Developing Countries. Washington, DC: International Food Policy Research Institute.
Mörner, Magnus. 1973. “The Spanish American Hacienda: A Survey of Recent Research and Debate.” Hispanic American Historical Review 53(2):183–216.
Morrison, Andrew, Mary Ellsberg, and Sarah Bott. 2004. “Addressing Gender-Based Violence in the Latin American and Caribbean
Region: A Critical Review of Interventions.” Washington, DC:
World Bank Policy Research Report Working Paper Series 3438.
Mtani, Anna. 2002.“Safety Audits and Beyond.” Paper presented at the
First International Seminar on Women’s Safety. May 9. Montreal.
Mundlak,Yair,and Donald F.Larson.1992.“On the Transmission of World
Agricultural Prices.” World Bank Economic Review 6(3):399–422.
Munshi, Kaivan. 2003. “Networks in the Modern Economy: Mexican Migrants in the U.S. Labor Markets.” Quarterly Journal of
Economics 118(2):549–97.
Munshi, Kaivan, and Mark Rosenzweig. Forthcoming. “Traditional
Institutions Meet the Modern World: Caste, Gender and Schooling in a Globalizing Economy.” American Economic Review.
Murgai, Rinku, and Martin Ravallion. 2005. “A Guaranteed Living
Wage in Rural India: Who Would Gain and at What Cost?”
World Bank. Washington, DC. Processed.
Mwaikusa, Jwani T. 1995. “Maintaining Law and Order in Tanzania: The Role of Sungusungu Defence Groups.” In Joseph Semboja and Ole Therkildsen, (ed.), Service Provision Under Stress in
East Africa: The State, NGOs, and People’s Organizations in Kenya,
Tanzania, and Uganda. Copenhagen: Center for Development
Research.
Myers, Robert. 1995. The Twelve Who Survive: Strengthening Programs of Early Childhood Development in the Third World. Ypsilanti, MI: High Scope Press.
Narayan, A., and N. Yoshida. 2004. “Poverty in Sri Lanka: The
Impact of Growth with Rising Inequality.” Paper presented at the
World Development Consultation Meeting. December 12. Delhi.
Narayan, Deepa, eds. 2002. Empowerment and Poverty Reduction: A
Sourcebook. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Neumark, David, Wendy Cunningham, and Lucas Siga. Forthcoming.
“The Effects of Minimum Wages in Brazil on the Distribution of
Family Incomes: 1996–2001.” Journal of Development Economics.
Newman, John, Steen Jorgensen, and Menno Pradhan. 1992. “How
Did Workers Benefit?” In Steen Jorgensen, Margaret Grosh, and
Mark Schacter, (ed.), Bolivia’s Answer to Poverty, Economic Crisis
and Adjustment: The Emergency Social Fund. Washington, DC:
World Bank.

265

Nicita, Alessandro. 2004. “Who Benefited from Trade Liberalization
in Mexico? Measuring the Effects on Household Welfare.” Washington, DC: World Bank Policy Research Working Paper Series
3265.
Nickell, Stephen. 1997. “Unemployment and Labor Market Rigidities: Europe versus North America.” Journal of Economic Perspectives 11(3):55–74.
Nielsen, Robin, and Tim Hanstad. 2004. “From Sharecroppers to
Landowners: Paving the Way for West Bengal’s Bargadars.” Seattle, WA: Rural Development Institute, Reports on Foreign Aid
121. Available on line at http://www.rdiland.org/PDF/PDF_
Reports/RDI_121.pdf.
North, Douglas C. 1981. Structure and Change in Economic History.
New York: W. W. Norton & Co.
North, Douglas C., and Robert P. Thomas. 1973. The Rise of the
Western World: A New Economic History. Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge University Press.
North, Douglas C., and Barry R. Weingast. 1989. “Constitutions
and Commitment: The Evolution of Institutions Governing
Public Choice in Seventeenth-Century England.” Journal of Economic History 49(4):803–32.
Nozick, Robert. 1974. Anarchy, State And Utopia. New York: Basic
Books.
Nussbaum, Martha C. 2000. Women and Human Development: The
Capabilities Approach. New York: Cambridge University Press.
O’Brien, Patrick K. 1993. “Political Preconditions for the Industrial
Revolution.” In Patrick O’Brien and Roland Quinault, (ed.), The
Industrial Revolution and British Society. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
O’Rourke, Kevin H., and Jeffrey G. Williamson. 2002. “From
Malthus to Ohlin: Trade, Growth and Distribution Since 1500.”
Cambridge, MA: National Bureau of Economic Research Working Paper Series 8955.
O’Sullivan, Robert, and Amiee Christensen. 2005. “Equity and
Inequity in the Context of Climate Change.” Background note
for the WDR 2006.
Obstfeld, Maurice. 1996. “Models of Currency Crises with Selffulfilling Features.” European Economic Review 40(3-5):1037–47.
OECD. 1999. Employment Outlook. Paris: Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.
————. 2000. Hard Core Cartels. Paris: Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. Available on line at
http://www.oecd.org/dataoecd/36/24/2367816.pdf.
————. 2003. Agricultural Policies in OECD Countries: Monitoring and Evaluation 2003. Paris: Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. Available on line at www1.oecd.
org/publications/e-book/5103081E.PDF.
————. 2005. “OECD Productivity Database (February 2005
version)”. Paris, Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development.
OECD-DAC. 2004. Development Cooperation Report Statistical
Annex 2004. Paris: Organization for Economic Co-operation and
Development. Available on line at http://www.oecd.org/document/
9/0,2340,en_2649_33721_1893129_1_1_1_1,00.html.

266

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Olley, G. Steven, and Ariel Pakes. 1996. “The Dynamics of Productivity in the Telecommunications Equipment Industry.” Econometrica 64(6):1263–97.
Osberg, Lars, and Timothy Smeeding. 2004. “Fair’ Inequality?: An
International Comparison of Attitudes to Pay Differentials.” Dalhousie University. Dalhousie. Available on line at http://wwwcpr.
maxwell.syr.edu/faculty/smeeding/selectedpapers/
Economicaversion27October2004.pdf. Processed.
Oster, Emily. 2005. “Hepatitis B and the Case of the Missing
Women.” Cambridge, MA: Harvard University, CID Graduate
Student and Postdoctoral Fellow Working Paper 7. Available on
line at http://www.cid.harvard.edu/cidwp/graduate.html.
Paes de Barros, Ricardo, and Mirela de Carvalho. 2004. “Targeting
as an Instrument for a more Effective Social Policy.” InterAmerican Development Bank. Washington, DC. Available on
line at http://www.iadb.org/sds/doc/POV-SEFVI-Barros_Carvalho.
pdf. Processed.
Palandt, Otto. 2004. Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch. Munich: C. H. Beck.
Palmade, Vincent. 2005. “Industry Level Analysis: The Way to Identify the Binding Constraints to Economic Growth.” Washington,
DC: World Bank Policy Research Working Paper Series 3551.
Panagides, Alexis, and Harry Anthony Patrinos. 1994. “Unionnonunion Wage Differentials in the Developing World: A Case
Study of Mexico.” Washington, DC: World Bank Policy Research
Report Working Paper Series 1269.
Pande, Rohini. 2003. “Can Mandated Political Representation
Increase Policy Influence for the Disadvantaged Minorities? Theory and Evidence from India.” American Economic Review
93(4):1132–51.
Parry, John H. 1948. The Audiencia of New Galicia in the Sixteenth
Century: A Study in Spanish Colonial Government. Cambridge,
UK: Cambridge University Press.
Pathmanathan, Indra, Jerke Liljestrand, Jo M. Martins, Lalini C.
Rajapaksa, Craig Lissner, Amalia de Silva, Swarna Selvajuru, and
Prabha Joginder Singh. 2003. Investing in Maternal Health:
Learning from Malaysia and Sri Lanka. Washington, DC: World
Bank.
Paxson, Christina H., and Norbert Schady. 2004. “Child Health and
Economic Crisis in Peru.” Washington, DC: World Bank Policy
Research Working Paper Series 3260.
————. 2005. “Cognitive Development among Young Children in
Ecuador: The Roles of Wealth, Health and Parenting.”Washington,
DC: World Bank Policy Research Working Paper Series 3605.
Payne, Geoffrey, eds. 2002. Land, Rights, and Innovation: Improving
Tenure for the Urban Poor. London, UK: ITDG Publishing.
Payne, Geoffrey, and Michael Majale. 2004. The Urban Housing
Manual: Making Regulatory Frameworks Work for the Poor. London, U.K.: Earthscan Publications.
Perotti, Enrico. 2002. “Lessons from the Russian Meltdown: The
Economics of Soft Legal Constraints.” International Finance
5(3):359–99.
Perotti, Enrico, and Erik Feijen. 2005. “Lobbying for Exit: The Political Economy of Financial Fragility.” University of Amsterdam.
Amsterdam. Available on line at http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/
papers.cfm?abstract_id=686661. Processed.

Perotti, Enrico, and Paolo Volpin. 2004. “Lobbying on Entry.” London, UK: Centre for Economic Policy Research Discussion Paper
Series 4519.
Perry, Guillermo. 2003. “Can Fiscal Rules Reduce Macroeconomic
Volatility in the Latin American and Caribbean Region?” Washington, DC: World Bank Policy Research Working Paper Series 3080.
Petesch, Patti, Catalina Smulovitz, and Michael Walton. 2005.
“Evaluating Empowerment: A Framework with Cases from Latin
America.” In Deepa Narayan, (ed.), Measuring Empowerment:
Cross-disciplinary Perspectives. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Piketty, Thomas. 1995. “Social Mobility and Redistributive Politics.” Quarterly Journal of Economics 110(3):551–84.
Pinglé, Vibha. 2005. “Faith, Equity, and Development.” Background
paper for the WDR 2006.
Pinto, Brian, Evsey Gurvich, and Sergei Ulatov. Forthcoming.
“Lessons from the Russia Crisis of 1998 and Recovery.” In Joshua
Aizenman and Brian Pinto (ed.) Managing Volatility and Crisis:
A Practitioner’s Guide. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Pistor, Katharina, and Phillip A. Wellons. 1999. The Role of Law and
Legal Institutions in Asian Economic Development: 1960-1995.
Hong Kong, China: Oxford University Press for the Asian Development Bank.
Pitayarangsarit, Siriwan. 2004. “Agenda Setting Process.” In Viroj
Tangcharoensathien and Pongpisut Jongudomsuk, (ed.), From
Policy to Implementation: Historical Events During 2001–2004 of
Universal Coverage in Thailand. Nonthaburi, Thailand: National
Health Security Office.
Pogge, Thomas W. 2004. “Assisting the Global Poor.” In Deen K.
Chatterjee, (ed.), The Ethics of Assistance: Morality and the Distant Needy. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
Pollitt, E., W. E. Watkins, and M. A. Husaini. 1997. “Three-Month
Nutritional Supplementation in Indonesian Infants and Toddlers Benefits Memory Function 8 Years Later.” American Journal
of Clinical Nutrition 66(6):1357–363.
Pradhan, Menno, David E. Sahn, and Stephen D. Younger. 2003.
“Decomposing World Health Inequality.” Journal of Health Economics 22(2):271–93.
Preker, Alexander, and Guy Carrin, eds. 2004. Health Financing for
Poor People: Resource Mobilization and Risk Sharing. Washington,
DC: World Bank.
Preston, Samuel H. 1980. “Causes and Consequences of Mortality
Declines in Less Developed Countries During the Twentieth Century.” In Richard Easterlin, (ed.), Population and Economic Change
in Developing Countries. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Pritchett, Lant. 1997. “Divergence: Big Time.” Journal of Economic
Perspectives 11(3):3–17.
————. 2001. “Where Has All the Education Gone?” World Bank
Economic Review 15(3):367–91.
————. 2003. “The Future of Migration: Irresistible Forces Meet
Immovable Ideas.” Paper presented at the The Future of Globalization: Explorations in Ligth of the Recent Turbulence Conference. October 11. New Haven, CT.
————. 2004a. “Towards a New Consensus for Addressing the
Global Challenge of the Lack of Education.” Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University. Cambridge, MA. Available on line at

References

http://www.copenhagenconsensus.com/Files/Filer/CC/Papers/
Education_230404.pdf. Processed.
————. 2004b. “Does Learning to Add Up Add Up? The Returns
to Schooling in Aggregate Data.” Cambridge, MA: Bureau for
Research in Economic Analysis of Development (BREAD)
Working Paper 053.
————. Forthcoming. “Who is Not Poor? Dreaming of a World
Truly Free of Poverty.” World Bank Research Observer.
Prud’Homme, Rémy. 1990. “Decentralization of Expenditures or
Taxes: The Case of France.” In Robert J. Bennett, (ed.), Decentralization, Local Governments, and Markets. Oxford, UK: Clarendon
Press.
Psacharopoulos, George, and Harry Anthony Patrinos. 1994.
Indigenous People and Poverty in Latin America: An Empirical
Analysis. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Pulley, Robert V. 1989. “Making the Poor Creditworthy: A Case
Study of the Integrated Rural Development Program in India.”
Washington, DC: World Bank Discussion Paper 58.
Qian, Yingyi. 2003. “How Reform Worked in China.” In Dani
Rodrik, (ed.), In Search of Prosperity: Analytic Narratives of Economic Growth. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
Quisumbing, Agnes R., Jona P. Estudillo, and Keijiro Otsuka. 2004.
Land and Schooling: Transferring Wealth Across Generations. Baltimore, MD: Johns Hopkins University Press.
Quisumbing, Agnes R., and John A. Maluccio. 2003. “Resources at
Marriage and Intrahousehold Allocation: Evidence from
Bangladesh, Ethiopia, Indonesia, and South Africa.” Oxford Bulletin of Economics and Statistics 65(3):283–327.
Rabin, Mathew. 1993. “Incorporating Fairness Into Game Theory
and Economics.” American Economic Review 83(5):1281–302.
Rahman, Lupin, and Vijayendra Rao. 2004. “The Determinants
of Gender Equity in India: Examining Dyson and Moore’s
Thesis with New Data.” Population and Development Review
30(2):239–68.
Rajan, Ragurham G., and Luigi Zingales. 2003. Saving Capitalism
from the Capitalists: Unleashing the Power of Financial Markets to
create Wealth and Spread Opportunity. New York: Crown Business.
Ranson, Kent, Tara Sinha, Mirai Chatterjee, Akash Adharya, Ami
Bhavsar, Saul Morris, and Anne J. Mills. 2005. “Making Health
Insurance Work for the Poor: Learning from SEWA’s Communitybased Health Insurance Scheme.” Processed.
Rao, Vijayendra. 2005. “Symbolic Public Goods and the Coordination of Collective Action: A Comparison of Local Development in India and Indonesia.” Background paper for the WDR
2006.
Rao, Vijayendra, and Michael Walton. 2004. Culture and Public
Action. Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press.
Ravallion, Martin. 1991. “Reaching the Rural Poor through Public
Employment: Arguments, Evidence and Lessons from South
Asia.” World Bank Research Observer 6(2):153–75.
————. 2001. “Growth, Inequality and Poverty: Looking Beyond
Averages.” World Development 29(11):1803–15.
————. 2003. “Targeted Transfers in Poor Countries: Revisiting
the Trade-Offs and Policy Options.” Washington, DC: World
Bank Social Protection Discussion Paper Series 0314.

267

————. 2004a. “Competing Concepts of Inequality in the Globalization Debate.” In Susan Margaret Collins and Carol Graham,
(ed.), Brookings Trade Forum 2004. Washington, DC: Brookings
Institution.
————. 2004b. “Looking Beyond Averages in the Trade and
Poverty Debate.” Washington, DC: World Bank Policy Research
Working Paper Series 3461.
————. 2005. “Why Should Poor People Care about Inequality?”
Background paper for the WDR 2006.
Ravallion, Martin, and Shaohua Chen. 1997. “What Can New Survey Data Tell us about Recent Changes in Distribution and
Poverty?” World Bank Economic Review 11(2):357–82.
————. 2004. “China’s (Uneven) Progress Against Poverty.”
Washington, DC: World Bank Policy Research Working Paper
Series 3408.
Ravallion, Martin, and Michael Lokshin. 2002. “Self-rated Economic Welfare in Russia.” European Economic Review
46(8):1453–73.
Ravallion, Martin, and Quentin Wodon. 1999. “Poor Areas, or only
Poor People?” Journal of Regional Science 39(4):689–711.
Rawlings, Laura B. 2004. “A New Approach to Social Assistance:
Latin America’s Experience with Conditional Cash Transfer Programs.” Washington, DC: World Bank, Social Protection Discussion Paper Series 0416.
Rawls, John. 1971. A Theory of Justice. Cambridge, MA: Harvard
University Press.
Revenga, Ana. 1991. “La Liberalización Económica y la Distribución de la Renta: La Experiencia Española.” Moneda y Crédito
193:179–224.
Ricupero, Rubens. 2005. “Why Should Small Developing Countries
Engage in the Global Trading System? Three Points of View on a
Hot Topic in the Doha Round: Overcoming Fear First.” Finance
and Development 42(1):10–11.
Ringera, A., J. W. Onyango-Otieno, W. Karanja, and M. W. Muigai.
2003. An Anatomy of Corruption in the Kenyan Judiciary: The
Report of the Integrity and Anti-Corruption Committee of the Judiciary. Nairobi, Kenya: The Judiciary.
Ringold, Dena, Mitchell A. Orenstein, and Erika Wilkens. 2005.
Roma in an Expanding Europe: Breaking the Poverty Cycle. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Robinson, James. 2003. “Politician-Proof Policy?” Washington, DC:
World Bank, Working Paper 26945. Available on line at
http://www.people.fas.harvard.edu/~jrobins/researchpapers/
unpublishedpapers/jr_WDR2004.pdf.
Rock, Michael T. 2003. “The Politics of Development Policy and
Development Policy Reform in New Order Indonesia.” Ann
Arbor, MI: University of Michigan, William Davidson Institute
Working Paper 632.
Rodrik, Dani. 1998. “Why Do More Open Economies Have Bigger
Governments?” Journal of Political Economy 106(5):997–1032.
————. 1999a. “Where Did All the Growth Go? External Shocks,
Social Conflict, and Growth Collapses.” Journal of Economic
Growth 4(4):385–412.
————. 1999b. “Democracies Pay Higher Wages.” Quarterly
Journal of Economics 114(3):707–38.

268

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Rodrik, Dani, Arvind Subramanian, and Francesco Trebbi. 2002.
“Institutions Rule: The Primacy of Institutions over Geography
and Integration in Economic Development.” Cambridge, MA:
National Bureau of Economic Research Working Paper Series 9305.
Roemer, John E. 1998. Equality of Opportunity. Cambridge, MA:
Harvard University Press.
Roland, Gérard, and Thierry Verdier. 2000. “Law Enforcement and
Transition.” London, UK: Centre for Economic Policy Research
Discussion Paper Series 2501.
Ronchi, Loraine. 2001. “The Impact of Fair Trade on Producers and
Their Organizations: A Case Study with Coocafe in Costa Rica.”
Brighton: University of Sussex, Poverty Research Unit Working
Paper 11. Available on line at http://www.sussex.ac.uk/Units/
PRU/wps/wp11.pdf.
————. 2002. Monitoring Impact of Fair Trade Initiatives: A Case
Study of Kuapa Kokoo and the Day Chocolate Company. London:
Twinsight. TWIN. Available on line at http://www.divinechocolate.
com/ImpactAssessmentLeaflet.pdf.
Rosenzweig, Mark R., and Hans P. Binswansger. 1993. “Wealth,
Weather Risk and the Composition and Profitability of Agricultural Investments.” Economic Journal 103(416):56–78.
Rosenzweig, Mark R., and Kenneth I. Wolpin. 1993. “Credit Market
Constraints, Consumption Smoothing, and the Accumulation of
Durable Production Assets in Low-income Countries: Investments in Bullocks in India.” Journal of Political Economy
101(2):223–44.
Ross, Michael. 2005. “Mineral Wealth and Equitable Development.”
Background paper for the WDR 2006.
Rothstein, Jesse. 2005. “Does Competition Among Public Schools
Benefit Students and Taxpayers? A Comment on Hoxby (2000).”
Cambridge, MA: National Bureau of Economic Research Working Paper Series 11215.
Rudnik, Rebecca S., and Richard K. Gordon. 1996. “Taxation of
Wealth.” In Victor Thuronyi, (ed.), Tax Law Design and Drafting.
Washington, DC: International Monetary Fund.
Russel, Peter H., and David M. O’Brien, eds. 2001. Judicial Independence in the Age of Democracy: Critical Perspectives from Around
the World. Charlottesville, VA: University of Virginia Press.
Rutter, Michael, Henri Giller, and Ann Hagell. 2000. Antisocial Behavior by Young People. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
Sala-i-Martin, Xavier. 2002. “Unhealthy People are Poor People . . .
And vice-versa.” Paper presented at the European Conference on
Health Economics of the International Health Economics Association. July 7. Paris.
Samuels, David, and Richard Snyder. 2001. “Devaluing the Vote in
Latin America.” Journal of Democracy 12(1):146–59.
Sánchez-Páramo, Carolina, and Norbert Schady. 2003. “Off and
Running? Technology, Trade, and the Rising Demand for Skilled
Workers in Latin America.” Washington, DC: World Bank Policy
Research Working Paper Series 3015.
Savedoff, William D. 2004. “Is there a Case for Social Insurance?”
Health Policy and Planning 19(3):183–84.
Schady, Norbert. 2005. “Changes in the Global Distribution of Life
Expectancy and Education.” World Bank. Washington, DC.
Processed.

Schieber, George. 2005. “Financing Health Systems in the 21st Century.” World Bank. Washington, DC. Processed.
Schiff, Maurice. 2005. “Brain Gain: Claims About its Size and
Impact on Welfare and Growth are (Greatly) Exaggerated.”
Bonn, Germany: IZA Discussion Paper 1599.
Schiff, Maurice, and Alberto Valdés. 1998. “Agriculture and the
Macroeconomy.” Washington, DC: World Bank Policy Research
Working Paper Series 1967.
Schultz, Paul T. 1998. “Inequality in the Distribution of Personal
Income in the World: How is it Changing and Why?” Journal of
Population Economics 11(3):307–44.
————. 2004. “School Subsidies for the Poor: Evaluating the
Mexican Progresa Poverty Program.” Journal of Development
Economics 74(1):199–250.
Schwartz, Anita. 2003. Old Age Security and Social Pensions. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Schwarzer, H., and A. C. Querino. 2002. “Non-contributory Pensions in Brazil: The Impact on Poverty Reduction.” Geneva: ILO,
Social Security Policy and Development Branch, ESS Paper 11.
Scott, James C. 1976. The Moral Economy of the Peasant: Rebellion and
Subsistence in Southeast Asia. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press.
————. 1986. “Everyday Forms of Peasant Resistance.” In James
C. Scott and Benedict J. Tria Kerkvilet, (ed.), Everyday Forms of
Peasant Resistance in Southeast Asia. London: Frank Cass. & Co.
Scott-McDonald, Kerida. 2004. “Elements of Quality in Home Visiting Programs: Three Jamaican Models.” In Mary Eming Young,
(ed.), From Early Child Development to Human Development:
Investing in our Chidren’s Future. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Sekhri, Neelam, and William Savedoff. 2005. “Private Health Insurance: Implications for Developing Countries.” Bulletin of the
World Health Organization 83(2):127–134.
Sell, Susan K. 2003. Private Power, Public Law: The Globalization of
Intellectual Property Rights. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
Sen, Abhijit, and Himanshu. 2004. “Poverty and Inequality in India:
Getting Closer to the Truth.” Centre for Economic Studies and Planning, Jawaharlal Nehru University. New Delhi. Available on line at
http://www.networkideas.org/featart/may2004/Poverty_WC.pdf.
Processed.
Sen, Amartya. 1985. Commodities and Capabilities. Amsterdam:
North-Holland.
————. 2000. “Social Justice and the Distribution of Income.” In
Anthony B. Atkinson and François Bourguignon, (ed.), Handbook of Income Distribution. Amsterdam: North-Holland.
————. 2001. “10 Theses on Globalization.” Global Viewpoint,
July 12.Available on line at http://www.digitalnpq.org/global_
services/global%20viewpoint/07-12-01.html.
————. 2004. “Disability and Justice.” Disability and Inclusive
Development Conference, keynote speech, World Bank. Washington, DC. Processed.
Shaban, Radwan. 1987. “Testing between Competing Models of
Sharecropping.” Journal of Political Economy 95(5):893–920.
Shaw, M. 2001. Investing in Youth: International Approaches to Preventing Crime and Victimization. Montreal: International Center
for the Prevention of Crime.

References

Shaw, Margaret. 2004. Police, Schools and Crime Prevention: A Preliminary Review of Current Practices. Montreal: International
Center for the Prevention of Crime. Available on line at
http://www.crime-prevention-intl.org/publications/pub_110_1.
pdf.
Shepherd, Andrew, Emmanuel Gyimah-Boadi, with Sulley Gariba,
Sophie Plagerson, and Abdul Wahab Musa. 2005. “Bridging the
North-south Divide in Ghana.”Background paper for the WDR 2006.
Shih, James C. 1992. Chinese Rural Society in Transition: A Case
Study of the Lake Tai Area. Berkeley, CA: University of California,
Inst.of East Asian Studies.
Shore, Rima. 1997. Rethinking the Brain: New Insights into Early
Development. New York: Family and Work Institute.
Shorrocks, A. F. 1980. “The Class of Additively Decomposable
Inequality Measures.” Econometrica 48(3):613–25.
Siegel, Jordan. 2003. “Is Political Connectedness a Paramount
Investment after Liberalization? The Successful Leveraging of
Contingent Social Capital and the Formation of Cross Border
Strategic Alliances Involving Korean Firms and their Global
Parners (1987–2000).” Cambridge, MA: Harvard NOM Working
Paper No. 03-45 03-45.
Slack, Paul. 1990. The English Poor Law, 1531–1782. London: The
Macmillan Press.
Sloth-Nielsen, Julia, and Jackie Gallinetti. 2004. Child Justice in
Africa: A Guide to Good Practice, Community Law Center.
Bellville, South Africa: University of the Western Cape Community Law Centre.
Smith [1776], Adam. 1937. An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of
the Wealth of Nations. New York: The Modern Library.
Smith, J. R., J. Brooks-Gunn, and P. K. Klebanov. 1997. “Consequences of Living in Poverty for Young Children’s Cognitive and
Verbal Ability and Early School Achievement.” In J. Duncan and
J. Brooks-Gunn, (ed.), Consequences of Growing up Poor. New
York: Russell Sage Foundation.
Smith, Peter H. 1978. “The Breakdown of Democracy in Argentina:
1916-1930.” In Juan J. Linz and Alfred Stepan, (ed.), The Breakdown of Democratic Regimes: Latin America. Baltimore, MD:
Johns Hopkins University Press.
Socialist Republic of Vietnam, and World Bank. 2005. Vietnam:
Managing Public Expenditure for Poverty Reduction and Growth;
Public Expenditure Review and Integrated Fiduciary Assessment
2004 (Vols. I and II). Washington, DC: World Bank.
Sokoloff, Kenneth L., and B. Zorina Khan. 1990. “The Democratization of Invention During Early Industrialization: Evidence
from the United States, 1790–1846.” Journal of Economic History
50(2):363–78.
Solar, Peter. 1995. “Poor Relief and English Economic Development
before the Industrial Revolution.” Economic History Review
48(2):1–22.
————. 1997. “Poor Relief and English Economic Development:
A Renewed Plea for Comparative History.” Economic History
Review 50(2):369–74.
Solon, Gary. 1999. “Intergenerational Mobility in the Labor Market.” In Orley Ashenfelter and David Card, (ed.), Handbook of
Labor Economics. Amsterdam: North-Holland.

269

————. 2002. “Cross-country Differences in Intergenerational
Earnings Mobility.” Journal of Economic Perspectives 16(3):59–66.
South Africa Competition Commission. 2003. Competition Commission
Media Release 33. Johannesburg: South Africa Competition Commission. Available on line at http://www.compcom.co.za/resources/
Media%20Releases/MediaReleases%202003/Jul/
Med%20Rel%2034%200f16%20Dec%202003.asp.
Sowell, Thomas. 2004. Affirmative Action Around the World: An
Empirical Study. New Haven: Yale University Press.
Stark, Oded, and David E. Bloom. 1985. “The New Economics of
Labor Migration.” American Economic Review 75(2):173–78.
Steele, Claude M. 1999. “Thin Ice: ‘Stereotype Threat’ and Black
College Students.” Atlantic Monthly 284(2):44–54.
Steele, Claude M., and J. Aronson. 1995. “Stereotype Threat and the
Intellectual Test Performance of African Americans.” Journal of
Personality and Social Psychology 69(5):797–811.
Stern, Joseph J. 2003. “The Rise and Fall of the Indonesian Economy.” Cambridge, MA: Harvard University, KSG Working Paper
Series RWP03-030.
Stern, Nicholas. 2002. A Strategy for Development. Washington, DC:
World Bank.
Stern, Nicholas, Jean-Jacques Dethier, and F. Halsey Rogers. 2005.
Growth and Empowerment: Making Development Happen. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Stewart, Frances. 2001. “Horizontal Inequalities: A Neglected
Dimension of Development.” Oxford, UK: Queen Elizabeth
House, University of Oxford, Working Paper 1.
Stoltzfus, R. J., J. D. Kvalsvig, and H. M. Chwaya. 2001. “Effects of
Iron Supplementation and Anthelmintic Treatment on Motor
and Language Development of Preschool Children in Zanzibar:
Double Blind, Placebo Controlled Study.” British Medical Journal
323(7326):1–8.
Stone, Jeff, Christian I. Lynch, Mike Sjomeling, and John M. Darley.
1999. “Stereotype Threat Effects on Black and White Athletic
Performance.” Journal of Personality and Social Psychology
77(6):1213–27.
Stone, Jeff, Zachary W. Perry, and John M. Darley. 1997. “White
Men Can’t Jump: Evidence for the Perceptual Confirmation of
Racial Stereotypes Following a Basketball Game.” Basic and
Applied Social Psychology 19(3):291–306.
Strauss, John, Germano Mwabu, and Katheleen Beegle. 2000.
“Intrahousehold Allocations: A Review of Theories and Empirical Evidence.” Journal of African Economies 9(0):83–143.
Subbarao, Kalanidhi. 2003. “Systemic Shocks and Social Protection:
Role and Efectivenss of Public Works Programs.” Washington,
DC: World Bank, Social Protection Discussion Paper 0302.
Subbarao, Kalanidhi, and Diane Coury. 2004. Reaching Out to
Africa’s Orphans: A Framework for Public Action. Washington,
DC: World Bank.
Sudjana, Brasukra G., and Satish Mishra. 2004. “Growth and
Inequality in Indonedia Today: Implications for Future Development Policy.” Jakarta: UNSFIR Discussion Paper Series
04/05.
Swaminathan, Madhura. 1991. “Segmentation, Collateral Undervaluation, and the Rate of Interest in Agrarian Credit Markets:

270

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Some Evidence from Two Villages in South India.” Cambridge
Journal of Economics 15(2):161–78.
Szreter, Simon. 2005. “Public Health and Security in an Age of
Globalizing Economic Growth: The Awkward Lessons of History.” In Simon Szreter, (ed.), Health and Wealth: Studies in Policy
and History. Rochester, NY: University of Rochester Press.
Takeoshi, Yosoburo. 1967. The Economic Aspects of the History of the
Civilization of Japan. London: Taylor & Francis.
Tarrow, Sidney. 1998. Power in Movement: Social Movement and
Contentious Politics. New York: Cambridge University Press.
Tawney, R. H. 1941. “The Rise of Gentry: 1558–1640.” Economic
History Review 11(1):1–38.
Taylor, J. Edward. 1992. “Remittances and Inequality Reconsidered:
Direct, Indirect, and Intertemporal Effects.” Journal of Policy
Modeling 14(2):187–208.
Taylor, J. Edward, and T. J. Wyatt. 1996. “The Shadow Value of
Migrant Remittances, Income and Inequality in a Householdfarm Economy.” Journal of Development Studies 32(6):899–912.
Temple, Jonathan. 2001. “Growing into Trouble: Indonesia After
1966.” London: C.E.P.R. Discussion Papers 2932.
Terry, Deborah J., Craig J. Carey, and Victor J. Callan. 2001.
“Employee Adjustment to an Organizational Merger: An Intergroup Perspective.” Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin
27(3):269–90.
Thailand’s Ministry of Public Health, and World Bank. 2005.
“Expanding Access to ART in Thailand: Achieving Treatment
Benefits while Promoting Effective Prevention.” Thailand’s Ministry of Health and World Bank. Bangkok and Washington, DC.
Processed.
Thomas, Duncan. 1990. “Intra-household Resource Allocation: An
Influential Approach.” Journal of Human Resources 29(4):635–64.
Thomas, Duncan, Elizabeth Frankenberg, Jed Friedman, JeanPierre Habitch, Mohamed Hakimi, Nathan Jones, Gretel Pelto,
Bondan Sikoki, Teresa Seeman, James P. Smith, Cecep Sumantri,
Wayan Suriastini, and Siswanto Wilopo. 2005. “Causal Effect of
Health on Labor Market Outcomes: Experimental Evidence.”
University of California. Los Angeles, CA. Available on line at
http://csde.washington.edu/downloads/thomas05.05.20.pdf.
Processed.
Thomas, Duncan, Elizabeth Frankenburg, Katheleen Beegle, and
Graciela Teruel. 1999. “Household Budgets, Household Composition and the Crisis in Indonesia: Evidence from Longitudinal
Household Survey Data.” Paper presented at the Population
Association of America Meetings. March 25. New York.
Thomas, Vinod. 1987. “Differences in Income and Poverty within
Brazil.” World Development 15(2):263–73.
Thomas, Vinod, Yan Wang, and Xibo Fan. 2002. “A New Dataset
on Inequality in Education: Gini and Theil Indices of Schooling
for 140 Countries, 1960–2000.” World Bank. Washington, DC.
Processed.
Thompson, Edward P. 1963. The Making of the English Working
Class. New York: Pantheon Books.
Thorbecke, Erik. 2005. “Economic Development, Income Distribution and Ethics,” Ithaca, Cornell University. Processed.

Tien Dung, Luu. 2003. Judicial Independence in Transitional
Countries. New York: United Nations Development Program.
Available on line at http://www.undp.org/oslocentre/docsjuly03/
DungTienLuu-v2.pdf.
Tilly, Charles. 1995. Popular Contention in Britain. Cambridge, MA:
Harvard University Press.
————. 1998. Durable Inequality. Berkeley, CA: University of
California Press.
Timmer, Peter. 2005. “Operationalizing Pro-poor Growth: Indonesia Country Study.” Center for Global Development.
Washington, DC. Available on line at http://siteresources
.worldbank.org/INTPGI/Resources/342674-1115051237044/
oppgindonesiaMay2005.pdf. Processed.
Topalova, Petia. 2004. “Factor Immobility and Regional Impacts of
Trade Liberalization: Evidence on Poverty and Inequality from
India.” Ph.D thesis. Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Toulmin, Camilla, and Julian Quan. 2000. Evolving Land Rights,
Policy and Tenure in Africa. London, UK: International Institute
for Environment and Development and Natural Resources Institute.
Townsend, Robert M. 1994. “Risk and Insurance in Village India.”
Econometrica 62(3):539–91.
————. 1995. “Financial Systems in Northern Thai Villages.”
Quarterly Journal of Economics 110(4):1011–46.
Tremblay, Richard E., and Wendy M. Craig. 1995. “Development
Crime Prevention.” In Michael Tonry and David P. Farrington,
(ed.), Building a Safer Society: Strategic Approaches to Crime Prevention. Chicago, IL: Chicago University Press.
Udry, Christopher. 1996. “Gender, Agricultural Production and the
Theory of Household.” Journal of Political Economy 104(5):1010–46.
Ugaz, Cecilia, and Catherine Waddams Price, eds. 2003. Utility Privatization and Regulation: A Fair Deal for Consumers?
Northampton, MA: Edward Elgar.
UNAIDS. 2002. Report on the Global HIV/AIDS Epidemic 2002.
Geneva: UNAIDS.
UNCTAD. 2004. World Investment Report 2004. New York: United
Nations Conference on Trade and Development. Available on line at
http://www.unctad.org/Templates/WebFlyer.asp?intItemID=
3235&lang=1.
UNESCO. 2005. EFA Global Monitoring Report. New York: UNESCO.
Available on line at http://portal.unesco.org/education/.
UNICEF. 2003. UNICEF Programs: Support for Families and Communities. Paris: UNICEF.
United Kingdom’s Commission for Africa. 2005. Our Common
Interest. London: United Kingdom’s Commission for Africa.
United Nations. 2002. Population Ageing Report. New York: United
Nations.
————. 2003. Human Security Now: Protecting and Empowering People. New York: United Nations, Commission on Human Security.
United Nations Development Programme. 1995. Human Development Report 1995. New York: Oxford University Press.
————. 2003. Human Development Report 2003: Millennium
Development Goals: A Compact among Nations to End Human
Poverty. New York: Oxford University Press.

References

United Nations International Organization for Migration. 2000.
World Migration Report 2000. Geneva: International Organization for Migration.
United Nations Research Institute for Social Development
(UNRISD). 2005. Policy Report on Gender and Development: 10
Years after Beijing. New York: United Nations.
USAID, UNAIDS, and UNICEF. 2004. Children on the Brink 2004: A
Joint Report on Orphan Estimates and Program Strategies. Paris:
UNICEF. Available on line at http://www.unicef.org/publications/
index_22212.html.
Vakis, Renos. 2003. “Livelihoods, Labor Markets and Rural
Poverty.” Washington, DC: World Bank, Guatemala Poverty Assesment (GUAPA) Program Technical Paper 1.
Valdés-Prieto, Salvador. 1992. “Financial Liberalization and the
Capital Account: Chile 1974–1984.” In Gerard Caprio, Izac
Atiyas, and James A. Hanson, (ed.), Financial Reform: Theory and
Experience. Cambridge, MA: Cambridge University Press.
Van de Walle, Dominique, and Dorothyjean Cratty. 2004. “Is the
Emerging Non-Market Economy the Route out of Poverty in
Vietnam?” Economics of Transition 12(2):237–75.
van den Brink, Rogier, Mike de Klerk, and Hans Binswanger. 1996.
“Rural Livelihoods, Fiscal Costs and Financing Options: A First
Attempt at Quantifying the Implications of Redistributive Land
Reform.” In Johan van Zyl, Johann Kirsten, and Hans Binswanger, (ed.), Agricultural Land Reform in South Africa: Policies,
Markets and Mechanisms. Cape Town: Oxford University Press.
van der Berg, Servaas, and Caryn Brendenkamp. 2002. “Devising
Social Security Interventions for Maximum Poverty Impact.”
Cape Town: CSSR Working Paper 13.
Van Niekerk, Gardiol. 2001. “State Initiatives to Incorporate Non-state
Laws into the Official Legal Order: A Denial of Legal Pluralism?”
Comparative and International Law of Southern Africa 34(3):349–61.
Velasco, Andrés. 1988. “Liberalization, Crisis, Intervention: The
Chilean Financial System.” Washington, DC: International Monetary Fund Working Paper Series 1988/66.
————. 1996. “Fixed Exchange Rates: Credibility, Flexibility and
Multiplicity.” European Economic Review 40(3-5):1023–35.
Voitchovsky, Sarah. 2004. “The Effect of Inequality on Growth: A
Review of the Recent Empirical Literature.” Oxford University.
Oxford. Processed.
Wade, Robert. 1990. Governing the Market: Economic Theory and
the Role of Government in East Asian Industrialization. Princeton,
NJ: Princeton University Press.
Walder, Andrew G., and Jean C. Oi. 1999. “Property Rights in the
Chinese Economy: Contours of the Process of Change.” In
Andrew G. Walder and Jean C. Oi, (ed.), Property Rights and Economic Reform in China. Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press.
Waller, Irving, and Daniel Sansfaçon. 2000. Investing Wisely in
Crime Prevention: International Experiences. Washington, DC:
Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance. Available
on line at http://www.ncjrs.org/pdffiles1/bja/182412.pdf.
Waller, Irwin, Brandon Welsh, and Daniel Sansfaçon. 1999. Crime
Prevention Digest II: Comparative Analysis of Successful Community Safety. Quebec: International Center for the Prevention of
Crime.

271

Walmsley, Terrie L., and L. Alan Winters. 2003. “Relaxing the
Restrictions on the Temporary Movement of Natural Persons: A
Simulation Analysis.” London: CEPR Discussion Paper 3719.
Wan, Guanghua, Ming Lu, and Zhao Chen. 2004. “Globalization
and Regional Income Inequality.” Helsinki: United Nations University, World Institute for Development Economics Research,
Discussion Paper 2004/10.
Washington Post. 2004. “Cambodia: Pinning Hope on Fair Labor
Standards.” Washington Post, November 17. Page: A19.
Widner, Jennifer A. 1993.“The Origins of Agricultural Policy in Ivory
Coast: 1960-1986.” Journal of Development Studies 29(4):25–60.
Wilkinson, Richard. 1992. “Income Distribution and Life
Expectancy.” British Medical Journal 304(6820):165–68.
————. 2000. Mind the Gap: Hierarchies, Health and Human
Evolution. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press.
Willanakuy, Hatun. 2004. Versión Abreviada del Informe Final de la
Comisión de la Verdad y Reconciliación. Lima, Peru: Comisión de
la Verdad y Reconciliación.
Williamson, Jeffrey G. 1985. Did British Capitalist Breed Inequality?
Boston, MA: Allen and Unwin.
Winters, L. Alan, Neil McCulloch, and Andrew McKay. 2004. “Trade
Liberalization and Poverty: The Evidence so Far.” Journal of Economic Literature 42(1):72–115.
Witte, John F. 2000. The Market Approach to Education: An Analysis
of America’s First Voucher Program. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
Wiwattanakantang, Yupana, Raja Kali, and Chutatong Charumilind. Forthcoming. “Connected Lending: Thailand Before the
Financial Crisis.” Journal of Business.
Wodon, Quentin. 2005. “Access to Basic Facilities in Africa.” World
Bank. Washington, DC. Processed.
Wodon, Quentin, Mohamed Ihsan Ajwad, and Corinne Siaens.
2005. “Targeting Utility Subsidies: Lifeline or Means-Testing?”
World Bank. Washington, DC. Processed.
Women in Informal Employment Globalizing and Organizing.
2005. The Importance of Organizing Informal and Casualized
Women Workers: Findings of HomeNet Thailand’s Recent Studies.
Cambridge, MA: Women in Informal Employment Globalizing
and Organizing (WIEGO). Available on line at http://www.
wiego.org/textonly/news.shtml.
Wood, Adrian. 1997. “Openness and Wage Inequality in Developing
Countries: The Latin American Challenge to East Asian Conventional Wisdom.” World Bank Economic Review 11(1):33–57.
World Bank. 1980. World Development Report 1980. New York:
Oxford University Press.
————. 1990. World Development Report 1990: Poverty. New
York: Oxford University Press.
————. 1993. World Bank Policy Research Report 1993. The East
Asian Miracle: Economic Growth and Public Policy. New York:
Oxford University Press.
————. 1994. World Development Report 1994: Infrastructure for
Development. New York: Oxford University Press.
————. 1997a. Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan: Health Sector Study
(World Bank Country Study). Washington, DC: World Bank.

272

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

————. 1997b. Sharing Rising Incomes: Disparities in China.
Washington, DC: World Bank.
————. 1997c. World Development Report 1997: The State in a
Changing World. New York: Oxford University Press.
————. 2000a. Can Africa Claim the 21st Century? Washington,
DC: World Bank.
————. 2000b. East Asia: Recovery and Beyond. Washington, DC:
World Bank.
————. 2000c. Making Transition Work for Everyone: Poverty and
Inequality in Europe and Central Asia. Washington, DC: World Bank.
————. 2001a. Colombia: Water Sector Reform Assistance Project.
Washington, DC: Project Appraisal Document Report No: 21868.
————. 2001b. Coverage: The Scope of Protection in Retirement
Incomes. Washington, DC: World Bank Pension Reform Prime
Note, Social Protection Unit.
————. 2001c. Growing Health: A Review of Vietnam’s Health
Sector. Washington, DC: World Bank.
————. 2001d. Mexico—Land Policy: A Decade After the Ejido
Reform. Washington, DC: World Bank.
————. 2001e. Social Protection Sector Strategy Paper—From
Safety Nets to Spring Board. Washington, DC: World Bank.
————. 2001f. Thailand Social Monitor: Poverty and Public Policy. Washington, DC: World Bank.
————. 2001g. World Bank Policy Research Report 2001: Engendering Development Through Gender Equality In Rights, Resources
And Voice. New York: Oxford University Press.
————. 2001h. World Development Report 2000/01: Attacking
Poverty. New York: Oxford University Press.
————. 2002a. Bulgaria: Poverty Assessment Report 24516-BUL.
Washington, DC. World Bank.
————. 2002b. World Development Report 2002: Building Institutions for Markets. New York: Oxford University Press.
————. 2003a. A Resource for Municipalities: Community Based
Crime and Violence Prevention in Urban Latin America. Washington, DC: World Bank, Department of Finance, Private Sector and
Infrastructure, Latin American Region.
————. 2003b. Global Economic Prospects. Washington, DC:
World Bank.
————. 2003c. From Goats to Coats: Institutional Reform in Mongolia’s Cashmere Sector. Washington, DC: World Bank.
————. 2003d. Kyrgyz Republic: Enhancing Pro-poor Growth
Report 24638-KG. Washington, DC: World Bank.
————. 2003e. Romania: Poverty Assessment Report 26169-RO.
Washington, DC: World Bank.
————. 2003f. The Contribution of Social Protection to the Millennium Development Goals. Washington, DC: World Bank,
Social Protection Unit.
————. 2003g. The Impact of Legal Aid: Ecuador. Washington,
DC: World Bank, Legal Vice Presidency.
————. 2003h. World Bank Policy Research Report 2003. Breaking
the Conflict Trap: Civil War and Development Policy. New York:
Oxford University Press.
————. 2003i. World Bank Policy Research Report 2003. Land
Policies for Growth and Poverty Reduction. New York: Oxford
University Press.

————. 2003j. World Development Report 2004: Making Services
Work for Poor People. New York: Oxford University Press.
————. 2004a. A Fair Share for Women: Cambodia Gender
Assessment. Phnom Penh: UNIFEM, The World Bank, ADB,
UNDP and DFID/UK in cooperation with the Ministry of
Women’s and Veteran’s Affair.
————. 2004b. Doing Business in 2004: Understanding Regulation.
Washington, DC: World Bank, IFC and Oxford University Press.
————. 2004c. “Gender Assessment of the Honduras Judicial
Sector.” World Bank. Washington, DC. Processed.
————. 2004d. Implementation Completition Report: Improving
Learning in Primary School Project (Report No. 27345). Washington, DC: World Bank.
————. 2004e. Kingdom of Morocco Poverty Report: Strengthening Policy by Identifying the Geographic Dimensions of Poverty.
Washington, DC: World Bank.
————. 2004f. “Private Participation in Infrastructure Project
Database”. Washington, DC, World Bank. Available on line at
http://ppi.worldbank.org/.
————. 2004g. Project Appraisal Document, Justice Services
Improvement Project, Annexes 11 and 12. Washington, DC: World
Bank.
————. 2004h. Reaching the Poor with Effective Health, Nutrition, and Population Services. Washington, DC: World Bank.
————. 2004i. “Rural Poverty in Mexico.” World Bank. Washington, DC. Processed.
————. 2004j. Sierra Leone: Legal and Judicial Sector Assessment.
Washington, DC: World Bank, Legal Vice Presidency.
————. 2004k. The Millennium Development Goals for Health:
Rising to the Challenges. Washington, DC: World Bank.
————. 2004l. World Bank Policy Research Report 2004. Reforming Infrastructure: Privatization, Regulation, and Competition.
New York: Oxford University Press.
————. 2005a. “Growth, Poverty, and Inequality in Europe and
Central Asia. Past, Present, and Future.” World Bank. Washington, DC. Processed.
————. 2005b. Pro-poor Growth in the 1990s: Lessons and Insight
from 14 Countries. Washington, DC: World Bank.
————. 2005c. Pro-Poor Growth: Country Experiences in the
1990s. Washington, DC: World Bank, Poverty Reduction Group.
————. 2005d. “Cambodia—Quality Basic Education for All.”
Washington, DC: World Bank.
————. 2005e. Doing Business in 2005: Removing Obstacles to
Growth. Washington, DC: Oxford University Press for the International Finance Corporation (World Bank).
————. 2005f. Global Monitoring Report. Millennium Development Goals: From Consensus to Momentum. Washington, DC:
World Bank.
————. 2005g. World Development Indicators. Washington, DC:
World Bank.
————. 2005h. World Development Report 2005: A Better Investment Climate for Everyone. New York: Oxford University Press.
World Commission on the Social Dimensions of Globalization.
2004. A Fair Globalization: Creating Opportunities for All.
Geneva. ILO.

References

World Health Organization. 2004. World Report on Knowledge for
Better Health. Geneva: World Health Organization. Available on
line at www.who.int/rpc/meetings/wr2004/en/.
Wößmann, Ludger. 2000. “Schooling Resources, Educational Institutions, and Student Performance: The International Evidence.”
Kiel Institute of Work Economics: Kiel Working Paper 983.
————. 2004. “How Equal are Educational Opportunities? Family Background and Student Achievement in the Europe and the
US.” Munich, Germany: Center for Economic Studies and Ifo
Institute for Economic Research 1162.
Wrigley, E. A. 1998. Continuity, Chance and Change: The Character
of the Industrial Revolution in England. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.

273

Yang, Dean. 2004. “International Migration, Human Capital, and
Entrepreneurship: Evidence from Philippine Migrants’ Exchange
Rate Shocks.” University of Michigan: Ford School of Public Policy Working Paper Series 02-011. Available on line at http://papers.
ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=546483.
Young, Mary Eming. 2002. “Early Child Development: A Stepping
Stone to Success in School and Lifelong Learning.” World Bank.
Washington, DC. Processed.
Zaninka, Penninah. 2003.“Uganda.” In J. Nelson and L. Hossack, (ed.),
Indigenous People and Protected Areas in Africa: From Principles to
Practice. Moreton-in-Marsh, UK: Forest People Programme.
Zeldes, Stephen. 1989. “Consumption and Liquidity Constraints: An
Empirical Investigation.” Journal of Political Economy 97(2):305–46.

Selected Indicators
Measuring equity 277
Introduction
Table A1. Poverty
Table A2. Income/consumption inequality measures
Table A3. Health
Table A4. Education
Technical notes

Selected world development indicators 289
Introduction
Classiﬁcation of economies by region and income
Table 1. Key indicators of development
Table 2. Millennium Development Goals: eradicating poverty and
improving lives
Table 3. Economic activity
Table 4. Trade, aid, and ﬁnance
Table 5. Key indicators for other economies
Technical notes

Measuring equity

This report has concerned itself with equity, a concept which
we have deﬁned to mean equality of opportunities and the
avoidance of absolute deprivation. As we made clear in the
report, the focus is mostly on inequality of opportunity, and
much less on overall inequality in a one-dimensional space,
such as income or education. We might be quite sanguine
about certain types of inequality across people if, for example, their outcomes varied for reasons that had to do mainly
with their own efforts. But we are concerned with systematic
differences in opportunities between individuals and groups
of people due to different “circumstances” not under their
control, i.e. when these groups are distinguishable from one
another only in characteristics that in some sense can be
argued to be “morally irrelevant” to their opportunities and
outcomes in life.
To give the audience a sense of inequality of opportunities, we chose to present data on income/consumption, infant

mortality, and years of education in a slightly different format
than what we are normally used to seeing for as many countries in the world as possible. Table A1 presents poverty rates
using national poverty lines as well as those using the international $1 and $2 per day poverty lines; information for the
national poverty line is also presented for urban and rural
breakdowns of the population. Table A2 presents alternative
inequality measures to the commonly used Gini Index, followed by evidence on inequality of land. In Table A3, we present infant mortality rates for more than 50 countries by the
sex of the infant, the education level of the mother, the location (urban or rural) of the family, and the ranking of the
household by an asset index. Finally, in Table A4, we present
educational attainment by location and gender, but also present measures of inequality in years of schooling, along with
the share of this inequality that is attributable to gender and
location.

277

278

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Table A1. Poverty
National poverty line

Survey
year

Albania
Algeria
Angola
Argentina
Armenia
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bangladesh
Belarus
Belgium
Benin
Bolivia
Bosnia & Herzegovina
Brazil
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Central African Rep.
Chad
Chile
China
Hong Kong, China
Colombia
Congo, Dem. Rep.
Congo, Rep.
Costa Rica
Côte d’Ivoire
Croatia
Czech Rep.
Denmark
Dominican Rep.
Ecuador
Egypt, Arab Rep.
El Salvador
Eritrea
Ethiopia
Finland
France
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Guatemala
Guinea
Haiti
Honduras
Hungary
India
Indonesia
Iran, Islamic Rep.
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Korea, Rep.
Kuwait
Kyrgyz Rep.
Lao PDR

2002
1995
..
1995
1998–99
..
..
1995
1995–96
2000
..
1995
1997
2001–02
1996
1997
1994
1990
1997
1996
..
..
1995–96
1996
1996
..
1995
..
..
1992
..
..
..
..
1992
1994
1995–96
1992
1993–94
1995–96
..
..
1997
..
1992
..
1989
1994
1987
1992
1993
1993–94
1996
..
..
..
..
1995
..
1991
1996
1994
..
..
2000
1993

Population below
the poverty line
Rural
Urban
National
%
%
%

29.6
30.3
..
..
50.8
..
..
..
55.2
..
..
25.2
77.3
19.9
54.0
..
51.0
36.0
40.1
59.6
..
..
67.0
..
7.9
..
79.0
..
..
25.5
..
..
..
..
49.0
47.0
23.3
55.7
..
47.0
..
..
9.9
..
..
..
71.9
..
..
46.0
..
37.3
..
..
..
..
..
37.0
..
..
39.0
47.0
..
..
56.4
48.7

19.8
14.7
..
28.4
58.3
..
..
..
29.4
..
..
28.5
53.8
13.8
15.4
..
10.4
43.0
21.1
41.4
..
..
63.0
..
<2
..
48.0
..
..
19.2
..
..
..
..
19.3
25.0
22.5
43.1
..
33.3
..
..
12.1
..
..
..
33.7
..
..
56.0
..
32.4
..
..
..
..
..
18.7
..
..
30.0
29.0
..
..
43.9
33.1

25.4
22.6
..
..
55.1
..
..
68.1
51.0
41.9
..
26.5
63.2
19.5
23.9
36.0
44.5
36.4
36.1
53.3
..
..
64.0
19.9
6.0
..
60.0
..
..
22.0
..
..
..
33.9
35.0
22.9
48.3
53.0
45.5
..
..
11.1
..
50.0
..
57.9
40.0
65.0
50.0
14.5
36.0
15.7
..
..
..
..
27.5
..
15.0
34.6
40.0
..
..
52.0
45.0

Survey
year

..
1998
..
1998
2001
..
..
2001
2000
..
..
1999
1999
..
1998
2001
1998
..
1999
2001
..
..
..
1998
1998
..
1999
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
1998
..
1999–00
..
..
1999–00
..
..
..
..
1998–99
..
2000
..
1995
1993
1997
1999–00
1999
..
..
..
..
2000
..
1997
..
1997
..
..
2001
1997–98

International poverty line
Population below
the poverty line
Rural
Urban
National
%
%
%

..
16.6
..
..
48.7
..
..
42.0
53.0
..
..
33.0
81.7
..
51.4
..
51.0
..
40.1
49.9
..
..
..
..
4.6
..
79.0
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
42.1
..
..
..
..
45.0
..
..
..
..
49.9
..
74.5
..
66.0
51.0
..
30.2

..
7.3
..
29.9
51.9
..
..
55.0
36.6
..
..
23.3
50.6
..
14.7
..
16.5
..
13.9
22.1
..
..
..
..
<2
..
55.0
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
20.5
..
..
..
..
37.0
..
..
..
..
18.6
..
27.1
..
..
57.0
..
24.7

..
..
..
..
25.1
..
..
..
53.0
..
..
51.0
41.0

..
..
..
..
12.8
..
..
..
49.0
..
..
41.2
26.9

..
12.2
..
..
50.9
..
..
49.0
49.8
..
..
29.0
62.7
..
22.0
12.8
45.3
..
35.9
40.2
..
..
..
17.0
4.6
..
64.0
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
28.6
..
16.7
..
..
44.2
..
..
..
..
39.5
..
56.2
..
..
53.0
17.3
28.6
27.1
..
..
..
..
18.7
..
11.7
..
52.0
..
..
47.6
38.6

Survey
year

2002 a
1995 a
..
2001 b
2003 a, c
..
..
2001 a
2000 a
2000 a
..
..
1999 a
..
2001 b
2003 a, c
1998 a
1998 a
1997 a
2001 a
..
1993 a
..
2000 b
2001 a
..
1999 b
..
..
2000 b
2002 a, c
2001 a
1996 b
..
1998 b
1998 b
1999–2000 a
2000 b
..
1999–2000 a
..
..
2001 a
..
1998–99 a
..
2000 b
..
2001 a, c
1999 b
2002 a
1999–2000 a
2002 a
1998 a
..
..
..
2000 a
..
2002 a, c
2003 a
1997 a
1998 b
2002 a
1997–98 a

Population
below
$1 a day
%

Poverty
gap at
$1 a day
%

Population
below
$2 a day
%

Poverty
gap at
$2 a day
%

<2
<2
..
3.3
<2
..
..
3.7
36.0
<2
..
..
14.4
..
8.2
<2
44.9
54.6
34.1
17.1
..
66.6
..
<2
16.6
..
8.2
..
..
2.0
14.8
<2
<2
..
<2
17.7
3.1
31.1
..
23.0
..
..
2.7
..
44.8
..
16.0
..
67.0
20.7
<2
35.3
7.5
<2
..
..
..
<2
..
<2
<2
22.8
<2
..
<2
26.3

<0.5
<0.5
..
0.5
<0.5
..
..
0.6
8.1
<0.5
..
..
5.4
..
2.1
<0.5
14.4
22.7
9.7
4.1
..
38.1
..
<0.5
3.9
..
2.2
..
..
0.7
4.1
<0.5
<0.5
..
<0.5
7.1
<0.5
14.1
..
4.8
..
..
0.9
..
17.3
..
4.6
..
40.0
7.5
<0.5
7.2
0.9
<0.5
..
..
..
<0.5
..
<0.5
<0.5
5.9
<0.5
..
<0.5
6.3

11.8
15.1
..
14.3
31.1
..
..
33.4
82.8
<2
..
..
34.3
..
22.4
6.1
81.0
87.6
77.7
50.6
..
84.0
..
9.6
46.7
..
22.6
..
..
9.5
48.8
<2
<2
..
<2
40.8
43.9
58.0
..
77.8
..
..
15.7
..
78.5
..
37.4
..
83.3
44.0
<2
80.6
52.4
7.3
..
..
..
13.3
..
6.5
24.9
58.3
<2
..
24.7
73.2

2.0
3.8
..
4.7
7.1
..
..
9.1
36.3
<0.5
..
..
14.9
..
8.8
1.5
40.6
48.9
34.5
19.3
..
58.4
..
2.5
18.4
..
8.8
..
..
3.0
18.4
<0.5
<0.5
..
<0.5
17.7
11.3
29.7
..
29.6
..
..
4.6
..
40.8
..
16.0
..
58.5
20.2
<0.5
34.9
15.7
1.5
..
..
..
2.7
..
1.4
6.3
23.9
<0.5
..
5.8
29.6

Measuring equity

279

Table A1. Poverty—continued
National poverty line

Survey
year

Latvia
Lebanon
Lithuania
Macedonia, FYR
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Mali
Mauritania
Mexico
Moldova
Mongolia
Morocco
Mozambique
Namibia
Nepal
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Romania
Russian Federation
Rwanda
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia & Montenegro
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Slovak Rep.
Slovenia
South Africa
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Sweden
Switzerland
Syrian Arab Rep.
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand
Togo
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Uganda
Ukraine
United Kingdom
United States
Uruguay
Uzbekistan
Venezuela, RB de
Vietnam
West Bank & Gaza
Yemen, Rep.
Zambia
Zimbabwe

..
..
..
..
1997
1990–91
1989
1998
1996
1988
1997
1995
1990–91
1996–97
..
1995–96
..
..
1993
1989–93
1985
..
..
1993
1997
1996
1991
1994
1994
1993
..
1994
1994
1993
..
1992
..
1989
..
..
..
..
..
1990–91
..
..
..
..
..
1991
1990
1987–89
1990
..
..
1993
1995
..
..
..
2000
1989
1998
..
1998
1996
1990–91

Population below
the poverty line
Rural
Urban
National
%
%
%

..
..
..
..
76.0
..
..
75.9
65.5
..
26.7
33.1
18.0
71.3
..
44.0
..
..
76.1
66.0
49.5
..
..
33.4
64.9
41.3
28.5
67.0
53.1
..
..
27.9
..
..
..
40.4
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
22.0
..
..
..
..
..
40.8
..
..
13.1
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
30.5
..
45.5
..
45.0
82.8
35.8

..
..
..
..
63.2
..
..
30.1
30.1
..
19.3
38.5
7.6
62.0
..
23.0
..
..
31.9
52.0
31.7
..
..
17.2
15.3
16.1
19.7
46.1
28.0
..
..
20.4
..
..
..
23.7
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
15.0
..
..
..
..
..
31.2
..
..
3.5
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
22.5
..
9.2
..
30.8
46.0
3.4

..
..
..
..
73.3
54.0
15.5
63.8
50.0
10.1
23.3
36.3
13.1
69.4
..
42.0
..
..
50.3
63.0
43.0
..
..
28.6
37.3
37.5
21.8
53.5
40.6
23.8
..
21.5
30.9
51.2
..
33.4
..
82.8
..
..
..
..
..
20.0
..
..
..
..
..
38.6
18.0
32.3
7.4
..
..
55.0
31.7
..
..
..
27.5
31.3
37.4
..
41.8
69.2
25.8

Survey
year

..
..
..
..
1999
1997–98
..
..
2000
..
..
1998
1998–99
..
..
..
..
..
1998
..
1992–93
..
..
1998–99
..
..
..
1997
1997
..
..
..
..
1999–00
..
..
..
2003–04
..
..
..
..
..
1995–96
..
..
..
..
..
2000–01
1992
..
1995
..
..
1997
..
..
..
..
..
..
2002
..
..
1998
1995–96

a = expenditure base; b = income base; c = preliminary data; .. denotes no data.

International poverty line
Population below
the poverty line
Rural
Urban
National
%
%
%

..
..
..
..
76.7
66.5
..
..
61.2
..
..
32.6
27.2
..
..
..
..
..
68.5
..
36.4
..
..
35.9
..
..
..
64.7
50.7
..
..
..
..
65.7
..
..
..
79.0
..
..
..
..
..
27.0
..
..
..
..
..
38.7
15.5
..
13.9
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
35.6
..
..
83.1
48.0

..
..
..
..
52.1
54.9
..
..
25.4
..
..
39.4
12.0
..
..
..
..
..
30.5
..
30.4
..
..
24.2
..
..
..
40.4
21.5
..
..
..
..
14.3
..
..
..
56.4
..
..
..
..
..
15.0
..
..
..
..
..
29.5
10.2
..
3.6
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
6.6
..
..
56.0
7.9

..
..
..
..
71.3
65.3
..
..
46.3
..
..
35.6
19.0
..
..
..
..
..
47.9
..
34.1
..
..
32.6
..
..
49.0
36.8
..
..
..
..
60.3
..
..
..
70.2
..
..
..
..
25.0
..
..
..
..
..
35.7
13.1
..
7.6
..
..
44.0
..
..
..
..
..
..
28.9
..
..
72.9
34.9

Survey
year

Population
below
$1 a day
%

Poverty
gap at
$1 a day
%

Population
below
$2 a day
%

Poverty
gap at
$2 a day
%

1998 a
..
2000 a
2003 a, c
2001 a
1997–98 a
1997 b
1994 a
2000 a
2000 a
2001 a
1998 a
1999 a
1996 a
1993 b
1995–96 a
..
..
2001 a
1995 a
2003 a, c
..
..
2001 a, c
2000 b
..
2002 b
2000 b
2000 a
2002 a, c
1994 b
2002 a
2002 a
1999–2000 a
..
1995 a
..
1989 a
..
1996 b
1998 a
2000 a
..
2002 a, c
..
..
..
..
2003 a
1991 a
2000 a, c
..
2000 a
2002 a, c
1998 a
..
1999 b
..
..
2000 b
2000 a
2000 b, c
..
..
1998 a
1998 a
1995–96 a

<2
..
<2
<2
61.0
41.7
<2
72.3
25.9
9.9
21.8
27.0
<2
37.9
34.9
39.1
..
..
45.1
60.6
70.8
..
..
17.0
7.2
..
16.4
18.1
15.5
<2
<2
<2
<2
51.7
..
22.3
..
57.0
..
<2
<2
10.7
..
5.6
..
..
..
..
7.4
48.5
<2
..
<2
4.8
12.1
..
2.9
..
..
<2
17.3
9.9
..
..
15.7
63.7
56.1

<0.5
..
<0.5
<0.5
27.9
14.8
<0.5
37.4
7.6
3.7
5.7
8.1
<0.5
12.0
14.0
11.0
..
..
16.7
34.0
34.5
..
..
3.1
2.3
..
7.4
9.1
3.0
<0.5
<0.5
0.5
<0.5
20.0
..
5.7
..
39.5
..
<0.5
<0.5
1.7
..
<0.5
..
..
..
..
1.3
24.4
<0.5
..
<0.5
1.0
2.6
..
0.6
..
..
<0.5
4.3
3.6
..
..
4.5
32.7
24.2

11.5
..
6.9
<2
85.1
76.1
9.3
90.6
63.1
26.3
64.1
74.9
14.3
78.4
55.8
80.9
..
..
79.9
85.8
92.4
..
..
73.6
17.6
..
33.2
37.7
47.5
<2
<2
14.0
7.5
83.7
..
63.0
..
74.5
..
2.9
<2
34.1
..
41.6
..
..
..
..
42.8
72.5
32.5
..
6.6
24.7
44.0
..
45.7
..
..
3.9
71.7
32.1
..
..
45.2
87.4
83.0

2.6
..
1.5
<0.5
51.8
38.3
2.0
60.5
26.8
10.9
25.2
30.6
3.1
36.8
30.4
37.6
..
..
41.2
54.6
59.5
..
..
26.1
7.4
..
16.2
18.5
17.8
<0.5
<0.5
3.4
1.3
45.5
..
25.2
..
51.8
..
0.8
<0.5
12.6
..
11.9
..
..
..
13.0
43.3
9.0
..
1.3
7.5
15.4
..
16.3
..
..
0.8
25.2
12.2
..
..
15.0
55.4
48.2

280

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Table A2. Income/consumption inequality measures
Income/consumption inequality

Albania
Algeria
Argentina—urban
Armenia
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bangladesh
Belarus
Belgium
Benin
Bolivia
Bosnia & Herzegovina
Botswana
Brazil
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Central African Rep.
Chile
China
Colombia
Costa Rica
Côte d’Ivoire
Croatia
Czech Rep.
Denmark
Dominican Rep.
East Timor
Ecuador
Egypt, Arab Rep.
El Salvador
Estonia
Ethiopia
Finland
France
Gambia, The
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Guatemala
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Guyana
Haiti
Honduras
Hungary
India
Indonesia
Iran
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Korea, Rep.
Kyrgyzstan
Lao PDR

Land inequality

Survey year

y/c*

Gini index

GE (0)

90th/10th percentile ratio

Survey year

Gini index

2002
1995
2001
2003
1994
1997
2001
2000
2000
2000
2003
2002
2001
1993.5
2001
2003
2003
1998
1997
2001
2000
1993
2000
2001
1999
2000
2002
2001
1996
1997
1997
2001
1998
2000
2002
1998
2000
2000
1994
1998
2002
2000
1999
1998
2000
2003
1993
1998
2001
1999
2002
1999/2000
2000
1998
2000
2001
2000
2001
1993
2002
2003
1997
1998
2002
1997/1998

c
c
y
c
y
y
c
c
c
y
c
y
c
c
y
c
c
c
c
c
y
c
y
c
y
y
c
c
y
y
y
c
y
c
y
c
c
y
y
c
c
y
c
c
y
c
c
y
y
y
c
c
c
c
y
c
c
c
y
c
c
c
y
c
c

0.31
0.35
0.51
0.26
0.32
0.28
0.36
0.31
0.30
0.26
0.36
0.58
0.25
0.63
0.59
0.28
0.38
0.42
0.40
0.45
0.33
0.61
0.51
0.45
0.54
0.46
0.45
0.29
0.25
0.27
0.47
0.37
0.54
0.34
0.50
0.32
0.30
0.25
0.31
0.48
0.38
0.28
0.41
0.36
0.58
0.39
0.40
0.45
0.68
0.52
0.24
0.33
0.34
0.43
0.31
0.35
0.31
0.42
0.25
0.39
0.30
0.44
0.32
0.29
0.35

0.15
..
0.49
0.11
0.20
0.14
0.22
0.16
..
0.12
0.22
0.76
0.10
..
0.65
0.12
0.23
0.31
0.28
..
0.18
..
0.47
..
0.57
0.39
0.33
0.17
0.12
0.14
0.40
0.22
0.61
0.20
0.52
0.17
0.15
0.10
0.15
0.44
0.25
0.12
0.28
0.22
0.66
0.24
..
..
0.98
0.51
0.09
..
..
0.33
0.16
0.20
0.16
0.28
0.10
0.25
0.14
0.32
0.15
0.13
0.20

3.95
..
13.71
3.17
4.88
3.58
4.62
3.85
..
3.22
4.93
29.65
3.25
..
16.25
3.56
4.91
6.49
4.80
..
4.52
..
10.72
..
15.00
9.65
6.75
..
..
..
9.17
5.42
16.09
..
15.88
4.73
3.34
3.12
..
..
6.11
3.58
7.30
..
16.81
5.09
..
..
45.43
11.72
2.96
..
..
..
4.27
4.90
4.26
5.90
..
5.46
3.88
6.56
..
3.63
4.10

1998
..
1988
..
..
1999/2000
..
1996
..
1999/2000
..
..
..
..
1996
..
1993
..
..
..
1991
..
..
..
2001
..
..
..
2000
1999/2000
..
..
..
1990
..
2001
2001
1999/2000
1999/2000
..
..
1999/2000
..
1999/2000
..
..
1988
..
..
1993
..
..
1993
..
1999/2000
..
1999/2000
..
1995
1997
..
..
1990
..
1999

0.84
..
0.83
..
..
0.59
..
0.62
..
0.56
..
..
..
..
0.85
..
0.42
..
..
..
0.64
..
..
..
0.8
..
..
..
0.92
0.51
..
..
..
0.65
..
0.79
0.47
0.27
0.58
..
..
0.63
..
0.58
..
..
0.62
..
..
0.66
..
..
0.46
..
0.44
..
0.73
..
0.59
0.78
..
..
0.34
..
0.39

Measuring equity

Table A2. Income/consumption inequality measures—continued
Income/consumption inequality

Latvia
Lesotho
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Macedonia, FDR
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Mali
Mauritania
Mexico
Moldova
Mongolia
Morocco
Mozambique
Namibia
Nepal
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Norway
Pakistan
Panama
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Romania
Russian Federation
Senegal
Serbia & Montenegro
Singapore
Slovak Rep.
Slovenia
South Africa
Spain
Sri Lanka
St. Lucia
Sweden
Switzerland
Taiwan, China
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand
Trinidad & Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Uganda
Ukraine
United Kingdom
United States
Uruguay—urban
Uzbekistan
Venezuela, RB de
Vietnam
Yemen, Rep.
Zambia
Zimbabwe

Land inequality

Survey year

y/c*

Gini index

GE (0)

90th/10th percentile ratio

Survey year

Gini index

1998
1995
2000
2000
2003
2001
1997/1998
1997
2001
2000
2002
2001
1998
1998
1996/1997
1993
1996
1999
1997
2001
1995
2003
2000
2001
2000
2001
2000
2000
2002
1997
2002
2002
1995
2003
1998
1996
1998
2000
2000
2002
1995
2000
1992
2000
2003
2001
2002
1992
2000
2002
1998

c
c
c
y
c
c
c
y
c
c
y
c
c
c
c
c
c
y
y
c
c
c
y
c
c
y
c
c
c
y
c
c
c
c
y
y
c
c
y
c
c
y
y
c
c
c
c
c
c
c
c

1999
1999
2000
2000
2000
2000
2002
1998
1998
1995

y
y
y
y
c
y
c
c
c
c

0.34
0.63
0.29
0.29
0.36
0.46
0.50
0.49
0.39
0.38
0.49
0.36
0.30
0.38
39.60
70.70
0.36
0.29
0.37
0.40
0.51
0.41
0.27
0.27
0.55
0.55
0.48
0.46
0.31
0.39
0.28
0.32
0.40
0.28
0.43
0.26
0.28
0.58
0.35
0.38
0.44
0.25
0.31
0.24
0.32
0.35
0.40
0.39
0.40
0.37
0.41
..
0.29
0.34
0.38
0.43
0.27
0.42
0.35
0.33
0.53
0.57

0.19
..
0.14
0.13
0.21
0.36
0.44
0.43
0.25
0.24
0.47
..
0.16
0.23
0.27
..
0.21
0.16
0.23
0.27
..
0.29
0.14
0.12
0.60
0.61
0.51
..
0.15
0.27
0.12
0.17
0.26
0.12
0.33
0.12
0.13
0.61
0.21
0.23
0.37
0.11
0.17
0.09
0.16
0.20
0.25
0.26
0.28
0.23
0.28
..
..
0.20
0.26
0.32
0.12
0.33
0.20
0.19
0.51
..

..
..
3.94
3.92
5.60
8.05
..
..
5.81
5.92
11.87
..
..
5.33
..
..
4.54
3.87
..
6.52
..
7.26
2.95
3.09
18.65
18.26
14.60
..
4.03
..
3.63
4.67
5.18
3.60
..
..
..
16.91
4.74
4.98
9.38
3.18
..
2.86
4.08
4.89
5.56
6.24
..
5.73
..
..
..
5.00
6.30
7.73
..
7.94
4.73
4.56
..
..

2001
1989/1990
..
1999/2000
..
..
1993
..
..
..
..
..
..
1996
..
1997
1992
1999/2000
..
2001
..
..
1999
1990
2001
1991
1994
1991
2002
1999/2000
..
..
1998
..
..
..
1991
..
1999/2000
..
..
1999/2000
1990
..
..
..
1993
..
1993
1991
..
1991
..
1999/2000
1997
2000
..
1996/1997
1994
..
..
..

0.58
0.49
..
0.48
..
..
0.52
..
..
..
..
..
..
0.62
..
0.36
0.45
0.57
..
0.72
..
..
0.18
0.57
0.52
0.93
0.86
0.55
0.69
0.74
..
..
0.5
..
..
..
0.62
..
0.77
..
..
0.32
0.5
..
..
..
0.47
..
0.7
0.61
..
0.59
..
0.66
0.76
0.79
..
0.88
0.53
..
..
..

Note: * c in this column indicates that the inequality measures refer to a distribution of consumption expenditures; y indicates that the inequality measures refer to a distribution
of incomes; .. denotes no data.

281

282

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Table A3. Health
Infant mortality rate (deaths under age 12 months per 1,000 live births)
By gender

Armenia
Bangladesh
Bangladesh
Bangladesh
Benin
Benin
Bolivia
Bolivia
Bolivia
Brazil
Brazil
Botswana
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Cameroon
Central African Rep.
Chad
Colombia
Colombia
Colombia
Colombia
Comoros
Côte d’Ivoire
Côte d’Ivoire
Dominican Rep.
Dominican Rep.
Dominican Rep.
Dominican Rep.
Ecuador
Egypt, Arab Rep.
Egypt, Arab Rep.
Egypt, Arab Rep.
Egypt, Arab Rep.
El Salvador
Eritrea
Ethiopia
Gabon
Ghana
Ghana
Ghana
Guatemala
Guatemala
Guatemala
Guinea
Haiti
Haiti
India
India
Indonesia
Indonesia
Indonesia
Indonesia
Jordan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kenya
Kenya
Kyrgyz Rep.
Liberia
Madagascar
Madagascar

By asset quintiles

By location

By mother’s education level

Survey year

Overall

Male

Female

Lowest

Second

Middle

Fourth

Highest

Urban

Rural

No
education

Primary

Secondary
or higher

2000
1993
1996/1997
1999/2000
1996
2001
1989
1994
1998
1986
1996
1988
1992/1993
1987
2000
1991
1998
1994/1995
1996/1997
1986
1990
1995
2000
1996
1994
1998
1986
1991
1996
1999
1987
1988
1992
1995
2000
1985
1995
2000
2000
1988
1993
1998
1987
1995
1998/1999
1999
1994
2000
1992/1993
1998/1999
1987
1991
1994
1997
1990
1997
1995
1999
1989
1993
1998
1997
1986
1992
1997

44.1
100.5
89.6
79.7
103.5
94.8
90.6
86.6
73.5
84.0
48.1
38.6
107.6
85.8
92.7
80.3
79.8
101.8
109.8
38.7
27.0
30.8
24.4
83.7
91.3
111.5
70.1
44.4
48.6
36.8
65.2
93.1
79.9
72.9
54.7
70.9
75.6
112.9
61.1
80.9
74.7
61.2
79.2
57.2
49.1
106.6
87.1
89.4
86.3
73.0
..
..
..
52.2
..
29.0
40.7
54.9
..
..
70.7
66.2
..
..
99.3

46.1
107.3
94.9
82.3
109.3
97.6
98.9
90.8
77.6
97.3
51.6
46.4
114.5
97.1
102.8
86.4
85.1
109.2
119.6
40.8
27.6
34.9
28.5
92.5
99.1
130.3
79.0
53.3
51.0
38.8
70.4
93.7
84.4
72.5
55.0
81.1
81.9
124.4
73.6
88.9
79.2
64.4
89.5
62.7
50.0
112.3
97.7
96.5
88.6
74.8
84.1
79.9
73.5
59.1
36.4
34.3
46.7
62.0
63.4
66.6
74.5
71.9
168.9
103.2
108.7

41.9
93.4
84.3
76.9
97.6
92.0
82.0
82.3
69.2
70.1
44.4
31.0
100.3
74.2
82.2
74.3
74.6
94.1
100.0
36.4
26.4
26.5
20.1
74.8
83.2
92.5
61.0
34.9
46.1
34.9
59.7
92.4
75.3
73.3
54.5
59.7
69.0
100.6
48.9
72.5
70.1
57.9
68.5
51.5
48.1
100.6
76.2
82.6
83.9
71.1
63.8
67.9
58.8
44.9
37.3
23.4
34.6
47.3
54.3
58.6
66.8
60.2
135.4
101.8
89.5

52.3
..
96.5
92.9
119.4
111.5
..
..
106.5
..
83.2
..
..
..
109.7
103.9
108.4
132.3
79.8
..
..
40.8
32.0
87.2
117.2
..
..
..
66.7
..
..
..
..
109.7
75.6
..
74.0
92.8
57.0
..
77.5
72.7
..
56.9
58.0
118.9
93.7
99.5
109.2
96.5
..
..
..
78.1
..
35.4
39.2
67.6
..
..
95.8
83.3
..
..
119.1

50.0
..
98.8
93.6
111.1
108.2
..
..
85.0
..
46.7
..
..
..
108.2
101.0
86.3
116.8
136.7
..
..
31.4
31.6
108.5
97.3
..
..
..
54.5
..
..
..
..
88.7
63.9
..
66.2
114.9
68.1
..
94.6
58.0
..
79.7
50.8
127.9
93.6
70.0
106.3
80.7
..
..
..
57.3
..
28.8
43.1
65.3
..
..
82.9
73.3
..
..
118.3

36.8
..
96.7
78.1
105.8
106.3
..
..
75.5
..
32.9
..
..
..
88.2
78.8
72.6
99.2
120.2
..
..
27.0
22.0
83.7
88.9
..
..
..
52.3
..
..
..
..
64.6
53.9
..
87.0
141.5
66.6
..
82.8
82.1
..
55.7
52.1
113.5
85.6
93.4
89.7
76.3
..
..
..
51.4
..
30.1
36.6
65.8
..
..
58.5
67.5
..
..
103.2

49.6
..
88.8
62.8
103.8
78.1
..
..
38.6
..
24.7
..
..
..
88.7
65.1
58.7
97.6
115.0
..
..
31.5
11.9
62.6
78.8
..
..
..
33.5
..
..
..
..
50.6
43.9
..
85.8
118.1
72.7
..
64.2
52.5
..
46.7
39.6
91.4
81.7
88.4
65.6
55.3
..
..
..
39.4
..
25.9
48.9
27.3
..
..
61.0
49.6
..
..
76.2

27.3
..
56.6
57.9
63.3
50.0
..
..
25.5
..
28.6
..
..
..
50.3
51.2
55.8
53.7
89.3
..
..
16.2
17.6
64.6
63.3
..
..
..
23.4
..
..
..
..
31.8
29.6
..
67.5
95.1
35.9
..
45.8
26.0
..
35.0
39.2
70.2
74.3
97.2
44.0
38.1
..
..
..
23.3
..
23.4
35.1
42.3
..
..
40.2
45.8
..
..
57.5

35.9
80.9
73.0
74.2
84.4
72.9
73.9
68.8
53.0
72.9
42.4
38.5
76.4
84.5
72.3
71.7
61.0
79.9
99.3
37.5
28.9
28.3
21.3
63.8
74.7
84.7
71.9
37.2
45.8
35.3
51.6
64.2
54.4
51.1
43.1
57.6
79.8
96.5
60.7
66.0
54.9
42.6
66.6
45.4
49.0
79.2
83.2
87.0
59.4
49.2
49.9
57.2
43.1
35.7
35.8
26.7
39.2
43.7
56.7
45.5
55.4
54.3
140.4
74.7
77.9

52.7
102.6
91.2
80.7
112.3
104.5
106.6
105.8
99.9
106.0
65.3
38.7
113.0
85.9
95.7
85.8
86.9
116.3
112.8
40.7
23.4
35.2
31.1
90.0
99.7
123.9
67.9
54.4
52.6
39.1
77.7
113.8
96.2
86.8
61.8
82.4
74.4
114.7
62.2
86.6
82.2
67.5
84.2
62.9
49.1
115.8
88.9
90.5
94.3
79.7
83.3
81.0
75.2
58.0
39.2
39.1
42.1
63.8
59.2
64.9
73.8
70.4
160.7
106.8
105.0

..
113.3
98.1
91.9
108.4
100.2
116.1
122.2
112.5
113.2
93.2
43.7
111.3
87.8
102.5
112.7
103.9
114.2
112.7
49.3
60.5
26.9
42.3
87.4
98.8
123.5
96.1
46.8
84.7
34.7
104.5
112.3
97.8
93.4
68.3
99.7
76.0
119.1
65.5
87.2
87.1
66.1
82.9
69.8
55.7
112.0
95.2
90.9
100.6
87.0
100.9
89.0
90.5
77.5
38.7
54.2
..
..
72.1
66.3
82.2
..
162.7
137.9
124.2

..
89.0
82.3
74.5
94.0
87.5
98.7
99.5
86.6
89.1
58.1
35.6
84.0
82.2
93.6
51.6
74.1
100.2
101.6
42.0
27.3
36.5
28.2
78.5
78.1
94.7
73.7
54.1
53.8
50.6
68.7
82.8
73.0
70.0
58.8
64.2
77.0
85.0
58.7
74.5
66.7
70.3
80.1
53.6
46.5
78.4
78.4
97.5
68.2
66.9
75.0
81.1
70.4
58.8
41.1
31.9
..
..
55.4
70.6
79.7
255.6
146.3
97.6
102.0

44.3
57.5
64.8
54.7
49.9
53.1
50.2
48.2
41.3
23.1
32.0
37.3
52.8
33.4
59.7
50.6
49.9
52.0
74.9
28.6
20.4
25.6
19.6
67.1
61.0
61.8
47.5
25.9
29.3
17.9
39.4
37.8
42.4
37.5
35.9
24.9
67.2
63.5
62.5
80.2
44.9
51.3
41.8
26.1
41.1
60.6
75.6
55.9
46.3
42.2
36.2
34.6
39.5
28.0
33.8
25.5
40.9
55.2
42.3
34.8
40.0
66.0
112.5
72.9
63.5

Measuring equity

283

Table A3. Health—continued
Infant mortality rate (deaths under age 12 months per 1,000 live births)
By gender

Malawi
Malawi
Mali
Mali
Mali
Mauritania
Mexico
Morocco
Morocco
Mozambique
Namibia
Nepal
Nepal
Nicaragua
Niger
Niger
Nigeria
Nigeria
Pakistan
Paraguay
Peru
Peru
Peru
Peru
Philippines
Philippines
Rwanda
Rwanda
Senegal
Senegal
Senegal
South Africa
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Tanzania
Tanzania
Tanzania
Thailand
Togo
Togo
Trinidad & Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Uganda
Uganda
Uganda
Uzbekistan
Vietnam
Yemen, Rep.
Yemen, Rep.
Zambia
Zambia
Zambia
Zimbabwe
Zimbabwe
Zimbabwe

By asset quintiles

By location

By mother’s education level

Survey year

Overall

Male

Female

Lowest

Second

Middle

Fourth

Highest

Urban

Rural

No
education

Primary

Secondary
or higher

1992
2000
1987
1995
2001
2000/2001
1987
1987
1992
1997
1992
1996
2001
1997/1998
1990
1998
1990
1999
1990
1990
1986
1992
1996
2000
1993
1998
1992
2000
1986
1992/1993
1997
1998
1987
1990
1992
1996
1999
1987
1988
1998
1987
1988
1993
1998
2000
1988
1995
2000/2001
1996
1997
1991/1992
1997
1992
1996
2001/2002
1988
1994
1999

136.1
112.5
..
133.5
126.2
66.8
..
..
63.1
147.4
61.5
93.0
77.2
45.2
..
135.8
91.6
..
94.0
35.9
..
..
49.9
43.2
..
36.0
90.2
117.4
90.9
76.1
69.4
42.2
..
77.1
99.4
94.1
107.8
38.5
84.0
80.3
30.5
55.5
68.3
48.4
71.6
106.0
86.1
89.4
43.5
34.8
100.3
89.5
98.3
107.7
93.9
56.4
51.2
59.7

141.7
117.1
136.6
140.5
136.4
..
60.4
82.8
68.6
153.0
66.6
101.9
79.2
50.2
135.8
140.9
93.9
73.3
102.1
39.0
83.2
68.1
56.1
46.0
43.5
39.4
98.4
123.2
98.6
83.6
73.6
49.0
39.6
83.7
103.6
100.8
..
45.6
88.5
89.1
28.4
56.3
70.5
51.0
83.0
111.3
87.4
93.3
50.2
42.0
108.1
98.4
106.2
116.3
95.1
63.2
56.9
63.1

130.4
107.9
125.5
126.5
115.6
..
52.4
80.6
57.4
141.9
56.5
83.7
75.2
40.2
133.0
130.5
89.3
68.0
85.5
32.6
74.8
59.2
43.5
40.2
32.9
32.3
82.1
111.6
82.9
68.7
65.0
35.3
24.9
70.3
95.1
87.1
..
30.9
79.3
71.4
32.8
54.7
66.0
45.5
59.7
100.6
84.9
85.5
36.7
26.9
92.1
80.0
90.5
99.3
92.7
49.5
45.5
56.2

141.2
131.5
..
151.4
137.2
60.8
..
..
79.7
187.7
63.6
96.3
85.5
50.7
..
131.1
102.2
..
88.7
42.9
..
..
78.3
63.5
..
48.8
..
138.7
..
..
84.5
61.6
..
..
..
87.3
114.8
..
..
84.1
..
..
99.9
68.3
89.3
..
109.0
105.7
54.4
42.8
..
108.5
..
123.6
115.2
..
52.0
59.1

133.7
110.7
..
146.9
125.2
59.4
..
..
67.7
136.2
63.0
107.2
87.7
53.7
..
152.3
102.3
..
108.7
36.5
..
..
53.6
53.9
..
39.2
..
120.2
..
..
81.6
51.6
..
..
..
118.0
107.5
..
..
81.7
..
..
72.7
54.6
78.6
..
79.5
98.3
39.8
43.2
..
102.0
..
131.5
93.1
..
49.5
63.9

154.1
117.4
..
138.9
140.6
78.0
..
..
62.4
144.3
48.4
103.6
76.6
45.7
..
157.2
93.1
..
109.3
46.1
..
..
34.4
32.6
..
33.7
..
123.4
..
..
69.6
35.8
..
..
..
95.6
115.4
..
..
90.0
..
..
72.1
42.1
68.2
..
90.4
94.5
36.0
35.2
..
88.9
..
105.1
113.8
..
47.4
67.1

139.2
109.1
..
129.0
128.7
72.8
..
..
58.5
134.2
72.2
84.7
72.8
40.2
..
142.0
85.8
..
95.7
33.5
..
..
36.0
26.5
..
24.9
..
118.9
..
..
58.8
34.0
..
..
..
102.1
106.8
..
..
73.9
..
..
54.4
37.5
62.4
..
84.5
81.0
39.0
27.2
..
80.9
..
104.1
80.8
..
64.2
63.1

106.1
86.4
..
93.2
89.9
62.3
..
..
35.1
94.7
57.3
63.9
53.2
25.8
..
85.8
68.6
..
62.5
15.7
..
..
19.5
13.9
..
20.9
..
87.9
..
..
44.9
17.0
..
..
..
64.8
91.9
..
..
65.8
..
..
25.4
29.8
58.4
..
63.2
60.2
45.9
16.9
..
60.0
..
69.8
56.7
..
41.6
44.3

118.1
82.5
89.8
98.7
105.9
..
41.6
64.1
51.9
100.8
63.1
61.1
50.1
40.0
89.0
79.9
75.6
59.3
74.6
32.6
55.8
47.5
34.9
28.4
31.9
30.9
87.5
77.9
70.1
54.5
50.2
32.6
34.4
74.0
108.3
81.7
..
25.9
74.7
65.3
34.2
49.6
58.1
42.2
60.1
103.8
74.4
54.5
42.9
23.2
90.9
75.4
78.0
91.9
76.7
37.0
44.3
47.2

138.4
116.7
144.1
145.0
131.9
..
79.2
90.9
69.3
159.7
60.7
95.3
79.3
51.1
142.6
146.7
95.9
74.9
102.2
38.7
106.1
89.9
71.0
60.3
44.3
40.2
90.4
123.5
101.9
86.8
79.1
52.2
32.2
78.6
97.1
96.8
..
40.8
87.3
85.0
27.9
61.8
82.6
58.6
79.9
106.2
87.6
93.7
43.8
36.6
102.2
93.6
116.0
117.9
102.6
63.4
53.6
65.3

143.4
116.6
139.1
139.6
130.0
..
27.6
85.6
67.7
155.6
57.9
97.5
84.6
62.1
137.0
140.9
96.1
76.9
98.6
52.2
118.8
100.0
78.9
73.4
76.7
78.5
97.3
134.8
96.2
81.2
76.1
58.8
52.2
82.4
103.1
105.9
..
55.5
88.2
87.4
69.0
61.8
92.2
66.3
113.8
114.9
94.0
106.7
..
48.8
102.4
92.6
114.9
132.9
108.1
77.1
61.6
81.1

129.6
114.3
74.6
112.7
122.4
..
..
52.8
53.2
143.9
65.5
80.0
61.0
45.3
114.9
99.6
87.2
70.8
90.4
39.1
88.3
83.2
61.7
53.5
46.6
45.1
84.9
113.9
67.2
58.5
52.1
47.6
34.0
70.1
97.9
89.3
..
38.7
79.3
72.1
24.2
49.6
63.4
46.2
29.7
101.1
87.9
88.4
..
43.3
77.5
71.6
98.9
110.2
98.8
53.9
53.9
60.6

96.3
65.4
74.1
59.6
51.7
..
83.9
62.5
20.9
72.5
57.0
53.4
39.1
31.0
48.8
70.1
69.9
55.7
59.5
22.9
41.5
33.9
30.6
27.4
28.9
28.3
65.3
59.5
51.4
32.1
28.7
36.1
27.9
62.5
71.8
63.9
..
18.5
54.3
54.4
38.5
34.4
25.4
27.9
71.4
85.8
48.0
52.6
43.6
29.0
43.7
66.9
79.4
81.7
70.3
38.2
38.6
54.0

Note: Only countries for which some data are available are included in this table; .. denotes no data.

284

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Table A4. Education
Share of total population
by years of schooling

By location

Afghanistan
Albania
Angola
Argentina
Armenia
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bangladesh
Belarus
Belgium
Benin
Bolivia
Bosnia & Herzegovina
Brazil
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Central African Rep.
Chad
Chile
China
Colombia
Comoros
Congo, Dem. Rep.
Costa Rica
Côte d’Ivoire
Czech Rep.
Denmark
Dominican Rep.
East Timor
Ecuador
Egypt, Arab Rep.
El Salvador
Estonia
Ethiopia
Finland
France
Gabon
Gambia, The
Germany
Ghana
Guatemala
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Guyana
Haiti
Honduras
Hungary
India
Indonesia
Iraq
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kosovo
Kyrgyz Rep.

Education
inequality measures

Mean years of schooling
By gender

Survey year

0

1–6
years

7–12
years

13 or
above

Total

Urban

Rural

Male

Female

Gini index

GE (0.5)

..
2002
2000
2001
2000
1994
1995
1995
1999/2000
2002
1997
2001
1998
2001
2001
2003
1998/1999
2000
1999
1998
2000
1994/1995
1996/1997
2000
2000
2000
1996
2000
2000
1998/1999
1996
1992
2002
2001
1998/1999
2000
2000
2000
2000
2000
1994
2000
2000
2000
1998/1999
1998/1999
1999
2000
2000
2000
2001
1999
1998/2000
2002
2000
1996
2001
2000
2000
2000
2002
1999
1999
2000
1997

..
0.04
0.33
0.01
0.01
0.00
0.00
0.02
0.46
0.02
0.03
0.63
0.10
0.06
0.20
0.06
0.86
0.61
0.00
0.32
0.00
0.48
0.76
0.02
0.07
0.07
0.64
0.25
0.05
0.56
0.00
0.00
0.10
0.60
0.08
0.35
0.18
0.00
0.74
0.00
0.20
0.19
0.58
0.02
0.31
0.29
0.77
0.72
0.00
0.40
0.19
0.00
0.41
0.09
0.26
0.00
0.02
0.03
0.01
0.00
0.00
0.01
0.20
0.07
0.01

..
0.10
0.47
0.08
0.02
0.00
0.01
0.03
0.26
0.28
0.12
0.23
0.35
0.16
0.21
0.22
0.08
0.32
0.63
0.29
0.01
0.35
0.16
0.19
0.33
0.44
0.17
0.35
0.48
0.24
0.16
0.00
0.35
0.19
0.42
0.19
0.38
0.02
0.16
0.00
0.12
0.32
0.14
0.36
0.14
0.45
0.09
0.14
0.28
0.33
0.55
0.10
0.20
0.50
0.33
0.03
0.03
0.19
0.15
0.11
0.19
0.03
0.26
0.12
0.03

..
0.76
0.20
0.65
0.61
0.58
0.89
0.65
0.24
0.27
0.47
0.12
0.35
0.69
0.23
0.24
0.04
0.05
0.36
0.30
0.34
0.14
0.06
0.54
0.55
0.36
0.16
0.36
0.31
0.14
0.74
0.83
0.40
0.20
0.33
0.28
0.32
0.58
0.09
0.70
0.48
0.38
0.19
0.39
0.41
0.21
0.09
0.05
0.62
0.22
0.20
0.75
0.31
0.34
0.27
0.79
0.51
0.68
0.71
0.53
0.54
0.79
0.52
0.63
0.79

..
0.10
0.00
0.26
0.36
0.42
0.10
0.30
0.04
0.44
0.38
0.03
0.20
0.10
0.36
0.48
0.02
0.02
0.01
0.08
0.65
0.02
0.01
0.24
0.05
0.13
0.04
0.04
0.16
0.06
0.10
0.17
0.15
0.02
0.18
0.17
0.12
0.40
0.01
0.30
0.20
0.11
0.09
0.23
0.14
0.05
0.05
0.09
0.10
0.05
0.06
0.14
0.08
0.07
0.14
0.18
0.44
0.10
0.12
0.36
0.26
0.17
0.02
0.18
0.17

..
9.19
3.65
10.33
11.44
12.50
10.64
10.99
3.92
11.27
11.52
2.47
7.63
9.32
8.38
10.85
1.00
2.13
5.70
5.32
14.27
2.95
1.30
10.27
6.54
7.19
2.76
5.39
7.90
3.43
9.14
11.62
7.47
3.19
8.12
6.60
6.56
12.49
1.56
12.03
8.26
6.71
3.82
10.07
6.62
4.58
1.97
2.34
8.89
3.93
5.55
10.01
5.03
7.38
6.36
11.00
12.63
9.05
9.31
11.74
10.42
10.69
6.26
9.35
10.58

..
10.55
..
..
11.98
12.64
11.10
11.61
6.31
..
..
4.28
9.28
11.03
8.67
12.22
4.28
..
7.12
7.58
14.39
4.53
3.09
10.83
8.53
8.29
4.41
..
9.02
5.30
..
11.82
8.32
5.40
9.67
8.60
8.32
..
5.16
12.24
8.58
7.45
..
10.39
8.79
6.28
4.44
..
10.00
6.70
7.41
..
7.78
9.04
..
..
12.55
9.49
..
11.99
10.70
11.15
8.05
10.46
11.35

..
8.09
..
..
10.60
12.21
10.35
10.23
3.29
..
..
1.34
4.07
8.71
6.61
7.50
0.33
..
5.52
4.14
13.30
1.82
0.69
6.77
5.18
4.08
2.06
..
6.15
2.16
..
11.23
5.85
2.52
5.49
4.83
3.53
..
0.88
11.26
7.36
4.55
..
9.57
5.39
3.10
0.86
..
8.37
2.14
3.64
..
3.93
5.85
..
..
13.08
8.56
..
10.79
9.55
10.23
5.48
8.61
10.16

..
9.58
..
10.26
11.50
13.07
10.97
11.62
4.94
10.84
11.65
3.63
8.48
10.29
8.44
10.76
1.48
..
6.35
6.54
14.34
4.22
2.20
10.42
7.22
7.19
3.69
..
7.91
4.40
9.31
11.78
7.38
3.43
8.26
7.90
6.98
12.13
2.21
11.88
8.24
7.62
..
10.07
8.31
5.14
3.06
..
8.94
4.75
5.57
10.09
6.50
7.99
..
11.14
12.75
9.32
9.17
11.95
10.74
10.75
7.01
10.85
10.76

..
8.83
..
10.40
11.38
11.89
10.30
10.43
2.90
11.61
11.39
1.53
6.84
8.39
8.32
10.94
0.63
..
5.15
4.27
14.20
1.79
0.53
10.14
5.82
7.19
1.96
..
7.89
2.52
8.98
11.47
7.56
0.86
7.98
5.28
6.22
12.80
0.94
12.17
8.28
5.78
..
10.07
5.22
4.07
1.08
..
8.84
3.19
5.52
9.94
3.57
6.77
..
10.86
12.52
8.79
9.43
11.52
10.13
10.64
5.56
7.93
10.41

..
0.21
..
0.22
0.13
0.15
0.14
0.15
0.62
0.25
0.22
0.75
0.38
0.24
0.39
0.19
0.90
..
0.28
0.50
0.13
0.66
0.86
0.23
0.37
0.36
0.71
..
0.30
0.68
0.19
0.11
0.38
0.69
0.33
0.51
0.45
0.16
0.83
0.15
0.37
0.39
..
0.25
0.46
0.54
0.84
..
0.20
0.61
0.45
0.18
0.56
0.32
..
0.11
0.14
0.23
0.19
0.17
0.21
0.12
0.38
0.46
0.12

..
0.14
..
0.09
0.04
0.04
0.03
0.07
1.18
0.13
0.12
1.69
0.38
0.18
0.53
0.26
2.63
..
0.12
0.84
0.03
1.32
2.23
0.13
0.35
0.31
1.82
..
0.22
1.48
0.06
0.02
0.36
1.68
0.28
0.90
0.56
0.04
2.14
0.03
0.49
0.52
..
0.13
0.78
0.83
2.22
..
0.07
1.12
0.56
0.06
1.02
0.29
..
0.04
0.07
0.12
0.08
0.08
0.07
0.04
0.51
0.21
0.05

Share of inequality
attributable
To location

To gender

..
0.06
..
..
0.05
0.00
0.02
0.03
0.04
..
..
0.10
0.16
0.03
0.01
0.05
0.27
..
0.04
0.05
0.01
0.08
0.12
0.08
0.08
0.13
0.04
..
..
0.07
..
0.01
0.04
0.04
0.12
0.05
0.13
..
0.15
0.02
0.00
0.04
..
0.01
0.04
0.07
0.14
..
0.05
0.15
0.11
..
0.05
0.08
..
..
0.00
0.01
..
0.01
0.01
0.02
0.03
0.03
0.03

..
0.01
..
0.00
0.00
0.03
0.02
0.02
0.03
0.00
0.00
0.05
0.02
0.03
0.00
0.04
0.03
..
0.04
0.03
0.00
0.07
0.10
0.00
0.02
0.00
0.00
..
0.00
0.03
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.03
0.00
0.02
0.00
0.01
0.04
0.00
0.00
0.02
..
0.00
0.04
0.01
0.06
..
0.00
0.02
0.00
0.00
0.04
0.01
..
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.01
0.00
0.01
0.15
0.00

Measuring equity

285

Table A4. Education—continued
Share of total population
by years of schooling

By location

Lao PDR
Lesotho
Luxembourg
Madagascar
Malawi
Mali
Mexico
Moldova
Mongolia
Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar
Namibia
Nepal
Netherlands
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Norway
Pakistan
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Romania
Russian Federation
Rwanda
São Tomé & Principe
Senegal
Sierra Leone
Slovak Rep.
Slovenia
South Africa
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Suriname
Swaziland
Sweden
Switzerland
Taiwan, China
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand
Togo
Trinidad & Tobago
Turkey
Turkmenistan
United Kingdom
United States
Uganda
Uruguay
Uzbekistan
Venezuela, RB de
Vietnam
Yemen, Rep.
Zambia
Zimbabwe

Education
inequality measures

Mean years of schooling
By gender

Survey year

0

1–6
years

7–12
years

13 or
above

Total

Urban

Rural

Male

Female

Gini index

GE (0.5)

1997
2000
2000
2001
2000
2001
1999
2000
2000
1992
1997
2000
2000
2001
1999
2001
1998
1999
2000
2001
2000
1996
2000
2000
1998
1999
2002
2000
2000
2000
1992/1993
2000
1992
1999
1998
1990
2002
2000
2000
2000
2000
1992
2000
1999
1999
2000
1998
2000
1998
1998
1999
2000
1995
2000
1996
2000
2000
1999
1992
1999

0.32
0.15
0.01
0.00
0.30
0.81
0.08
0.01
0.02
0.63
0.48
0.26
0.20
0.64
0.00
0.23
0.85
0.39
0.00
0.59
0.04
0.48
0.06
0.08
0.03
0.00
0.01
0.00
0.38
0.17
0.77
0.74
0.01
0.01
0.74
0.13
0.00
0.51
0.01
0.20
0.00
0.00
0.05
0.00
0.30
0.05
0.47
0.01
0.17
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.32
0.01
0.01
0.08
0.06
0.65
0.16
0.10

0.44
0.39
0.17
0.65
0.40
0.10
0.41
0.07
0.08
0.18
0.43
0.47
0.23
0.17
0.01
0.41
0.09
0.23
0.00
0.15
0.32
0.33
0.53
0.32
0.32
0.21
0.14
0.01
0.41
0.42
0.13
0.04
0.14
0.00
0.14
0.22
0.25
0.20
0.38
0.24
0.09
0.00
0.22
0.05
0.19
0.47
0.32
0.12
0.50
0.02
0.00
0.02
0.39
0.34
0.02
0.34
0.34
0.11
0.30
0.21

0.20
0.42
0.34
0.26
0.30
0.06
0.37
0.55
0.63
0.15
0.08
0.27
0.53
0.17
0.71
0.26
0.05
0.28
0.70
0.21
0.43
0.11
0.29
0.39
0.46
0.67
0.70
0.40
0.20
0.27
0.07
0.19
0.74
0.86
0.09
0.43
0.57
0.24
0.52
0.52
0.61
0.79
0.47
0.63
0.50
0.34
0.19
0.78
0.23
0.77
0.68
0.42
0.27
0.45
0.81
0.42
0.57
0.17
0.49
0.62

0.04
0.03
0.49
0.09
0.01
0.03
0.14
0.37
0.27
0.04
0.00
0.00
0.04
0.02
0.28
0.10
0.02
0.11
0.30
0.05
0.21
0.08
0.12
0.21
0.19
0.11
0.15
0.59
0.01
0.15
0.03
0.03
0.11
0.14
0.03
0.22
0.18
0.05
0.09
0.04
0.30
0.21
0.26
0.32
0.01
0.15
0.02
0.09
0.09
0.20
0.31
0.55
0.03
0.20
0.17
0.17
0.02
0.07
0.06
0.07

4.08
5.82
12.31
6.34
4.23
1.45
7.78
11.75
10.05
2.84
2.24
4.32
6.65
2.46
12.36
5.57
1.12
5.77
12.70
3.51
9.52
3.90
7.26
8.76
8.77
9.27
9.73
13.70
3.59
6.54
1.80
2.44
10.36
11.32
1.95
9.12
9.22
4.01
7.96
6.78
12.00
11.64
9.48
11.96
4.58
6.89
3.15
9.17
6.14
10.60
12.16
13.83
4.23
9.41
10.66
8.29
6.96
3.34
6.26
7.57

7.32
..
..
8.02
7.67
3.80
8.63
..
..
4.70
4.65
..
8.29
5.38
..
7.28
3.49
8.06
12.97
5.95
10.84
..
8.77
10.24
9.94
..
..
..
6.67
..
3.73
..
..
..
3.93
..
..
..
..
..
12.53
11.57
9.74
11.33
6.03
8.97
5.03
..
6.93
10.98
12.31
13.96
7.53
..
11.06
9.92
8.48
5.95
8.45
9.52

3.36
..
..
5.65
3.60
0.56
4.67
..
..
0.94
1.54
..
5.35
2.09
..
2.91
0.52
4.77
12.36
2.43
7.04
..
5.15
5.56
7.41
..
..
..
2.96
..
0.51
..
..
..
0.58
..
..
..
..
..
11.46
11.71
7.03
12.18
4.05
5.79
2.12
..
4.61
10.27
11.98
13.37
3.71
..
10.37
7.96
6.44
2.27
4.91
6.22

5.38
..
12.96
6.38
5.46
2.03
8.10
11.71
..
3.92
3.20
..
6.73
3.88
12.67
5.54
1.57
7.06
12.75
5.05
9.29
4.98
7.36
9.51
8.71
9.05
10.14
13.60
4.19
..
2.60
..
10.74
11.37
2.72
9.48
8.94
..
7.95
..
11.84
12.24
10.15
11.94
5.36
7.19
4.57
9.19
7.23
10.96
12.21
13.85
5.46
9.32
11.00
8.08
7.43
5.35
7.41
8.41

2.85
..
11.65
6.30
3.08
0.94
7.49
11.77
..
1.90
1.45
..
6.57
1.22
12.03
5.59
0.75
4.61
12.65
2.02
9.74
2.79
7.16
8.03
8.84
9.47
9.33
13.79
3.14
..
1.19
..
9.99
11.27
1.33
8.77
9.47
..
7.98
..
12.15
11.04
8.84
11.97
3.93
6.62
1.98
9.14
5.08
10.28
12.11
13.80
3.12
9.49
10.33
8.51
6.53
1.54
5.14
6.81

0.53
..
0.21
0.31
0.52
0.87
0.34
0.20
..
0.74
0.65
..
0.38
0.74
0.13
0.49
0.88
0.53
0.11
0.70
0.27
0.62
0.35
0.30
0.24
0.19
0.21
0.14
0.55
..
0.83
..
0.15
0.10
0.79
0.31
0.23
..
0.24
..
0.16
0.13
0.30
0.20
0.41
0.33
0.62
0.19
0.38
0.12
0.11
0.13
0.50
0.24
0.11
0.30
0.28
0.73
0.37
0.30

0.84
..
0.08
0.16
0.80
2.36
0.30
0.07
..
1.72
1.27
..
0.52
1.76
0.03
0.67
2.56
0.97
0.03
1.55
0.17
1.25
0.26
0.26
0.14
0.06
0.09
0.04
0.99
..
2.18
..
0.05
0.03
2.10
0.33
0.10
..
0.11
..
0.04
0.03
0.24
0.07
0.74
0.21
1.25
0.09
0.47
0.03
0.02
0.04
0.82
0.10
0.03
0.26
0.22
1.81
0.44
0.30

Share of inequality
attributable
To location

To gender

0.07
..
..
0.08
0.06
0.18
0.09
..
..
0.03
0.11
..
0.05
0.04
..
0.13
0.16
0.03
0.01
0.06
0.11
..
0.12
0.14
0.07
..
..
..
0.06
..
0.19
..
..
..
0.19
..
..
..
..
..
0.02
0.00
0.02
0.01
0.02
0.10
0.08
..
0.04
0.02
0.00
0.00
0.05
..
0.01
0.01
0.04
0.06
0.08
0.08

0.06
..
0.02
0.00
0.05
0.03
0.00
0.00
..
0.04
0.06
..
0.00
0.09
0.01
0.00
0.03
0.02
0.00
0.06
0.00
0.03
0.00
0.01
0.00
0.00
0.01
0.00
0.01
..
0.03
..
0.01
0.00
0.11
0.00
0.00
..
0.00
..
0.00
0.05
0.01
0.00
0.02
0.00
0.07
0.00
0.03
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.05
0.00
0.01
0.00
0.01
0.10
0.04
0.02

286

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Technical notes
Table A1 Poverty
National poverty rate is the percentage of the population
living below the national poverty line. Rural (urban)
poverty rate is the percentage of the rural (urban) population living below the national rural (urban) poverty line.
Population below $1 a day and population below $2 a day
are the percentages of the population living on less than
$1.08 a day and $2.15 a day at 1993 international prices. All
above poverty indicators are also called headcount ratios.
Poverty gap is the mean shortfall from the poverty line
(counting the nonpoor as having zero shortfall), expressed
as a percentage of the poverty line.
To measure poverty, one needs to deﬁne the relevant welfare measure, to select a poverty line, and to select a poverty
indicator. The two most commonly used poverty indicators
are the headcount ratio and the poverty gap, part of the FGT
class of indexes from Foster, Greer, and Thorbecke (1984).
The indexes are deﬁned by
J
 (Z − Yi ) 
1
Pα =


n i = 1  Z 

∑

α

where i is a subgroup of individuals with income below the
poverty line Z; n is the total number of individuals in the
sample; Yi is the income of individual i; and α is a distinguishing parameter between FGT indexes. When α equals 0,
the expression simpliﬁes to J/n, or the headcount ratio. The
poverty gap is given by α equal to 1.
The welfare measure can be income or consumption.
Income is generally more difﬁcult to measure accurately, and
consumption comes closer to the notion of standard of living. And income can vary over time even if the standard of
living does not. So whenever possible, consumption data are
used to estimate poverty. But when consumption data are
not available, income data are used.
Poverty line is a threshold below which a given household
or individual will be regarded as poor. National poverty lines
are established according to countries’ own judgment of
minimum acceptable living standards. Because countries
have different deﬁnitions of poverty, consistent comparisons
between countries can be difﬁcult. Local poverty lines tend
to have higher purchasing power in rich countries, where
more generous standards are used than in poor countries. Is
it reasonable to treat two people with the same standard of
living—in terms of their command over commodities—differently because one happens to live in a better-off country?
Poverty measures based on an international poverty line
attempt to hold the real value of the poverty line constant
across countries, as is done when making comparisons over
time. The commonly used $1 a day standard, an international poverty line measured in 1985 international prices

and adjusted to local currency using purchasing power parities (PPP), was chosen because it is typical of the national
poverty lines in low-income countries. Recalculated in 1993
consumption PPP terms in 1993 prices, the original $1 a day
in 1985 PPP is now about $1.08 a day. PPP exchange rates are
used because they take into account the local prices of goods
and services not traded internationally. But PPP rates were
designed for comparing aggregates from national accounts,
not for making international poverty comparisons. As a
result, there is no certainty that an international poverty line
measures the same degree of need or deprivation across
countries. Furthermore, any revisions in the PPP of a country to incorporate better price indexes can produce dramatically different poverty lines in local currency.
Since the World Bank produced its ﬁrst global poverty
estimates for World Development Report 1990 using household survey data, the database has expanded considerably
and now includes 440 surveys representing almost 100
developing countries. Some 1.1 million randomly sampled
households were interviewed in these surveys, representing
93 percent of the population of developing countries. Along
with improvements in data coverage and quality, the underlying methodology has also improved, resulting in better and
more comprehensive estimates.
Data availability. Since 1979 there has been considerable
expansion in the number of countries that ﬁeld such surveys, in the frequency of the surveys, and in the quality of
their data. The number of data sets rose dramatically from a
mere 13 between 1979 and 1981, to 100 between 1997 and
1999. Sub-Saharan Africa continues to lag behind all other
regions, with only 28 countries out of 48 having at least one
data set available.
Data quality. A number of issues arise in measuring
household living standards from survey data. As indicated
above, one relates to the choice of income or consumption as
a welfare indicator. Another issue is that household surveys
can differ widely, for example, in the number of consumer
goods they identify. And even similar surveys may not be
strictly comparable because of differences in timing or the
quality and training of survey enumerators.
Comparisons of countries at different levels of development pose a potential problem because of differences in the
relative importance of consumption of nonmarket goods.
The local market value of all consumption in kind (including own production, particularly important in underdeveloped rural economies) should be included in total consumption expenditure. Similarly, imputed proﬁt from the
production of nonmarket goods should be included in
income. This is not always done, though such omissions
were a far bigger problem in surveys before the 1980s. Most
survey data now include valuations for consumption or
income from own production. Nonetheless, valuation methods vary. For example, some surveys use the price in the

Measuring equity

nearest market, while others use the average farm-gate selling price.
In all cases the measures of poverty have been calculated
from primary data sources (tabulations or household data)
rather than existing estimates. Estimation from tabulations
uses an interpolation method based on Lorenz curves with
ﬂexible functional forms, which have proved reliable in past
work. Empirical Lorenz curves were weighted by household
size, so they are based on percentiles of population, not
households.
The Poverty Monitoring team in the World Bank’s Development Research Group calculates the number of people living below various international poverty lines, as well as other
poverty and inequality measures that are published in World
Development Indicators. That database is updated annually as
new survey data become available, and a major reassessment
of progress against poverty is made about every three years.

Table A2 Income Distribution
The Gini index measures the extent to which the distribution of income/consumption (or land) among individuals
or households within an economy deviates from a perfectly
equal distribution. A Lorenz curve plots the cumulative percentage of total income received against the cumulative proportion of recipients, starting with the poorest individual or
household. The Gini index measures the area between the
Lorenz curve and a hypothetical line of absolute equality,
expressed as the share of the maximum area under the line.
Thus a Gini index of zero represents perfect equality, while
an index of 1 implies perfect inequality. The Gini coefﬁcient
takes on values between 0 and 1 with zero interpreted as no
inequality.
Gini =

1
2 n2 y

n

n

∑∑ y − y
i

j

i =1 j =1

Generalized Entropy (or GE) indexes provide us with an
alternative class of income/consumption (or other) inequality measures, given by
GE c =


1 1
c2 − c  n


c

 yi 

−
1
 y
.

i =1 

n

∑

The value of the measure GE ranges from 0 to inﬁnity,
with zero representing an equal distribution (all incomes
identical) and higher values represent higher levels of
inequality. The parameter c in the GE class represents the
weight given to distances between incomes at different parts
of the income distribution, and can take any real value. For
lower values of c, GE is more sensitive to changes in the
lower tail of the distribution, and for higher values GE is
more sensitive to changes that affect the upper tail. The most

287

common values of c used are 0, 1 and 2: hence a value of c =0
gives more weight to distances between incomes in the lower
tail; c = 1 applies equal weights across the distribution; and a
value of c = 2 give proportionately more weight to gaps in
the upper tail. The GE measures with parameters 0 and 1
become, with l’Hopital’s rule, two of Theil’s measures of
inequality (Theil, 1967), the mean log deviation and the
Theil-T index respectively, as follows:
GE(0) =

1
n

n

∑ log y

1
GE(1) =
n

y

i =1
n

yi

i

yi

∑ y log y
i =1

90th/10th percentile ratio is constructed by dividing the
income (consumption) in the 90th percentile by the income
(consumption) in the 10th percentile. A 90th/10th ratio of 5
means that the household in the 90th percentile earns (spends)
ﬁve times as much as the household in the 10th percentile.
Survey year gives the year in which the country survey
used to generate the reported data was completed.

Table A3 Health
To measure equity in health, we have only used data from 123
Demographic Health Surveys (DHS) collected in 67 countries between 1985 and 2002. In addition to breaking down
infant mortality rates by “asset indices” created by Filmer and
Pritchett (1998) (as documented in Gwatkin and others
(2003, 2004), we compiled population breakdowns for different groupings using the interactive “STATcompiler” feature
in the DHS website.
Infant mortality rate is the number of deaths to children
under 12 months of age per 1,000 live births. Figures used in
the table are based on births in the 10 years preceding the
survey.
Asset quintiles are constructed using the Filmer-Pritchett method to create an index of wealth based on 20–30
household attributes—type of ﬂooring and/or roof, source
of water, availability of electricity, possession of such items
as watches, radios, etc. Once the index is created it is applied
to the country’s household surveys to construct a distribution of assets that is then divided into ﬁfths, each household
belonging to one of these quintiles. Indicators for the quintiles are then formed as the average result for all families for
that indicator (e.g. infant mortality rate) within each asset
quintile.
Education is the number of years (or level) of formal
education the child’s mother has completed at the time of
the survey.
Gender is the sex of the child (male or female) as
reported by the child’s mother (or household head if mother
is not present).

288

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Location is listed as urban if the surveyed household lives
in a recognized city or surroundings, and listed as rural if
otherwise.

The GE class of inequality measures can be decomposed
into a between- and within-group component along the following lines:

Table A4 Education


1 
1−
GE c =
c(c − 1) 


For measuring educational attainment, we used a database
that was put together by Araujo, Ferreira, and Schady. The
data come from the individual-level records of various
household surveys for 124 countries. The selection criteria
were to choose a survey instrument that: (a) was nationally
representative; (b) was collected on 2000 or on the closest
year; and (c) included information on the actual number of
years of education completed by the interviewees. The ﬁveyear cohorts group adults who were likely to have completed
their education at the time of the survey. The cohorts are
constructed based on one survey per country.
The measure share of total population by years of
schooling gives the percent of the population having completed the reported number of years of schooling at the time
the survey was taken.
Mean years of schooling gives the arithmetic mean for
years of formal schooling for the total population, those living in urban areas, and those living in rural areas, as well as
for males and females.
The Gini index and the Generalized Entropy indexes
reported in this table are the same as those described in table
A2, except for the fact that y now denotes years of schooling.
We report the share of inequality in education which is
due to differences between urban and rural dwellers (location) and between males and females (gender).


GE c = 



GE c = 



∑
j

 µj 
gj 
 µ

c

+



∑

 µ 
g j log    +
 µ j  


∑

 µj   µj  
g j   log    +
 µ   µ  

j

j

∑

∑GE g
j

j

 µj 
GE j g j  
 µ

j

c

if c =
/ 0,1

if c = 0

j

∑
j

 µj 
GE j g j  
 µ

if c = 1

where µ is average per capita consumption, j refers to subgroups, g j refers to the population share of group j, and GE j
refers to inequality in group j. The between-group component of inequality is captured by the ﬁrst term to the right of
the equal sign. It can be interpreted as measuring what
would be the level of inequality in the population if everyone
within the group had the same (group average) consumption level µ j. The second term on the right reﬂects the within
group inequality GE j. Ratios of the respective components
with the overall inequality level provide a measure of percentage contribution of between-group and within-group
inequality to total inequality.

Selected world development
indicators

In this year’s edition, development data are presented in four
tables presenting comparative socioeconomic data for more
than 130 economies for the most recent year for which data
are available and, for some indicators, for an earlier year. An
additional table presents basic indicators for 75 economies
with sparse data or with populations of less than 2 million.
The indicators presented here are a selection from more
than 800 included in World Development Indicators 2005.
Published annually, World Development Indicators reﬂects a
comprehensive view of the development process. Its opening
chapter reports on the Millennium Development Goals,
which grew out of agreements and resolutions of world conferences organized by the United Nations (U.N.) in the past
decade, and reafﬁrmed at the Millennium Summit in September 2000 by member countries of the U.N. The other ﬁve
main sections recognize the contribution of a wide range of
factors: human capital development, environmental sustainability, macroeconomic performance, private sector development and the investment climate, and the global links that
inﬂuence the external environment for development. World
Development Indicators is complemented by a separately
published database that gives access to over 1,000 data tables
and 800 time-series indicators for 222 economies and
regions. This database is available through an electronic subscription (WDI Online) or as a CD-ROM.

Data sources and methodology
Socioeconomic and environmental data presented here are
drawn from several sources: primary data collected by the
World Bank, member country statistical publications,
research institutes, and international organizations such as
the U.N. and its specialized agencies, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). Although international standards of coverage, deﬁnition, and classiﬁcation
apply to most statistics reported by countries and international agencies, there are inevitably differences in timeliness

and reliability arising from differences in the capabilities and
resources devoted to basic data collection and compilation.
For some topics, competing sources of data require review
by World Bank staff to ensure that the most reliable data
available are presented. In some instances, where available
data are deemed too weak to provide reliable measures of
levels and trends or do not adequately adhere to international standards, the data are not shown.
The data presented are generally consistent with those in
World Development Indicators 2005. However, data have been
revised and updated wherever new information has become
available. Differences may also reﬂect revisions to historical
series and changes in methodology. Thus data of different
vintages may be published in different editions of World
Bank publications. Readers are advised not to compile data
series from different publications or different editions of the
same publication. Consistent time-series data are available
on World Development Indicators 2005 CD-ROM and
through WDI Online.
All dollar ﬁgures are in current U.S. dollars unless otherwise stated. The various methods used to convert from
national currency ﬁgures are described in the Technical notes.
Because the World Bank’s primary business is providing
lending and policy advice to its low- and middle-income
members, the issues covered in these tables focus mainly on
these economies. Where available, information on the highincome economies is also provided for comparison. Readers
may wish to refer to national statistical publications and
publications of the OECD and the European Union for more
information on the high-income economies.

Classification of economies
and summary measures
The summary measures at the bottom of each table include
economies classiﬁed by income per capita and by region.
GNI per capita is used to determine the following income
classiﬁcations: low-income, $825 or less in 2004; middle289

290

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

income, $826 to $10,065; and high-income, $10,066 and
above. A further division at GNI per capita $3,255 is made
between lower-middle-income and upper-middle-income
economies. See the table on classiﬁcation of economies on
the next page for a list of economies in each group (including those with populations of less than 2 million).
Summary measures are either totals (indicated by t if the
aggregates include estimates for missing data and nonreporting countries, or by an s for simple sums of the data
available), weighted averages (w), or median values (m) calculated for groups of economies. Data for the countries
excluded from the main tables (those presented in Table 5)
have been included in the summary measures, where data
are available, or by assuming that they follow the trend of
reporting countries. This gives a more consistent aggregated
measure by standardizing country coverage for each period
shown. Where missing information accounts for a third or
more of the overall estimate, however, the group measure is
reported as not available. The section on Statistical methods
in the Technical notes provides further information on aggregation methods. Weights used to construct the aggregates are
listed in the technical notes for each table.
From time to time an economy’s classiﬁcation is revised
because of changes in the above cutoff values or in the economy’s measured level of GNI per capita. When such changes
occur, aggregates based on those classiﬁcations are recalculated for the past period so that a consistent time series is
maintained.

Terminology and country coverage
The term country does not imply political independence but
may refer to any territory for which authorities report separate
social or economic statistics. Data are shown for economies as
they were constituted in 2003, and historical data are revised to
reﬂect current political arrangements. Throughout the tables,
exceptions are noted.

Technical notes
Because data quality and intercountry comparisons are often
problematic, readers are encouraged to consult the Technical
notes, the table on Classiﬁcation of Economies by Region and
Income (next page), and the footnotes to the tables. For more
extensive documentation see World Development Indicators
2005.
Readers may ﬁnd more information on the WDI 2005, and
orders can be made online, by phone, or fax as follows:
For more information and to order online: http://www.
worldbank.org/data/wdi2005/index.htm.
To order by phone or fax: 1-800-645-7247 or 703-6611580; Fax 703-661-1501
To order by mail: The World Bank, P.O. Box 960, Herndon,
VA 20172-0960, U.S.A.

Classification of economies by region and income, FY2006
East Asia and the Pacific
American Samoa
Cambodia
China
Fiji
Indonesia
Kiribati
Korea, Dem. Rep.
Lao PDR
Malaysia
Marshall Islands
Micronesia, Fed. Sts.
Mongolia
Myanmar
Northern Mariana Islands
Palau
Papua New Guinea
Philippines
Samoa
Solomon Islands
Thailand
Timor-Leste
Tonga
Vanuatu
Vietnam

UMC
LIC
LMC
LMC
LMC
LMC
LIC
LIC
UMC
LMC
LMC
LIC
LIC
UMC
UMC
LIC
LMC
LMC
LIC
LMC
LIC
LMC
LMC
LIC

Europe and Central Asia
Albania
Armenia
Azerbaijan
Belarus
Bosnia & Herzegovina
Bulgaria
Croatia
Czech Rep.
Estonia
Georgia
Hungary
Kazakhstan
Kyrgyz Rep.
Latvia
Lithuania
Macedonia, FYR
Moldova
Poland
Romania
Russian Federation
Serbia & Montenegro
Slovak Rep.
Tajikistan
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Ukraine
Uzbekistan

LMC
LMC
LMC
LMC
LMC
LMC
UMC
UMC
UMC
LMC
UMC
LMC
LIC
UMC
UMC
LMC
LIC
UMC
LMC
UMC
LMC
UMC
LIC
UMC
LMC
LMC
LIC

Latin America and the Caribbean
Antigua & Barbuda
UMC
Argentina
UMC
Barbados
UMC
Belize
UMC
Bolivia
LMC
Brazil
LMC
Chile
UMC
Colombia
LMC
Costa Rica
UMC
Cuba
LMC
Dominica
UMC
Dominican Republic
LMC
Ecuador
LMC
El Salvador
LMC
Grenada
UMC
Guatemala
LMC
Guyana
LMC
Haiti
LIC
Honduras
LMC
Jamaica
LMC
Mexico
UMC
Nicaragua
LIC
Panama
UMC
Paraguay
LMC
Peru
LMC
St. Kitts and Nevis
UMC
St. Lucia
UMC
St. Vincent & the
Grenadines
UMC
Suriname
LMC
Trinidad & Tobago
UMC
Uruguay
UMC
Venezuela, RB
UMC
Middle East and North Africa
Algeria
Djibouti
Egypt, Arab Rep.
Iran, Islamic Rep.
Iraq
Jordan
Lebanon
Libya
Morocco
Oman
Syrian Arab Rep.
Tunisia
West Bank & Gaza
Yemen, Rep.

LMC
LMC
LMC
LMC
LMC
LMC
UMC
UMC
LMC
UMC
LMC
LMC
LMC
LIC

South Asia
Afghanistan
Bangladesh
Bhutan
India
Maldives
Nepal
Pakistan
Sri Lanka

LIC
LIC
LIC
LIC
LMC
LIC
LIC
LMC

Sub-Saharan Africa
Angola
Benin
Botswana
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cameroon
Cape Verde
Central African Rep.
Chad
Comoros
Congo, Dem. Rep.
Congo, Rep.
Côte d’Ivoire
Equatorial Guinea
Eritrea
Ethiopia
Gabon
Gambia, The
Ghana
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Kenya
Lesotho
Liberia
Madagascar
Malawi
Mali
Mauritania
Mauritius
Mayotte
Mozambique
Namibia
Niger
Nigeria
Rwanda
São Tomé & Principe
Senegal
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Somalia
South Africa
Sudan
Swaziland
Tanzania
Togo
Uganda
Zambia
Zimbabwe

LMC
LIC
UMC
LIC
LIC
LIC
LMC
LIC
LIC
LIC
LIC
LIC
LIC
UMC
LIC
LIC
UMC
LIC
LIC
LIC
LIC
LIC
LIC
LIC
LIC
LIC
LIC
LIC
UMC
UMC
LIC
LMC
LIC
LIC
LIC
LIC
LIC
UMC
LIC
LIC
UMC
LIC
LMC
LIC
LIC
LIC
LIC
LIC

High income OECD
Australia
Austria
Belgium
Canada
Denmark
Finland
France
Germany
Greece
Iceland
Ireland
Italy
Japan
Korea, Rep.
Luxembourg
Netherlands
New Zealand
Norway
Portugal
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
United Kingdom
United States
Other high-income
Andorra
Aruba
Bahamas, The
Bahrain
Bermuda
Brunei
Cayman Islands
Channel Islands
Cyprus
Faeroe Islands
French Polynesia
Greenland
Guam
Hong Kong, China
Isle of Man
Israel
Kuwait
Liechtenstein
Macao, China
Malta
Monaco
Netherlands Antilles
New Caledonia
Puerto Rico
Qatar
San Marino
Saudi Arabia
Singapore
Slovenia
Taiwan, China
United Arab Emirates
Virgin Islands (U.S.)

Note: This table classifies all World Bank member economies, and all other economies with populations of more than 30,000. Economies are divided among income groups according to 2004
GNI per capita, calculated using the World Bank Atlas method. The groups are: low-income economies (LIC), $825 or less; lower-middle-income economies (LMC), $826–3,255; upper-middleincome economies (UMC), $3,256–10,065; and high-income economies, $10,066 or more.
Source: World Bank data.

291

Table 1. Key indicators of development
Population

Millions

2004

Albania
Algeria
Angola
Argentina
Armenia
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bangladesh
Belarus
Belgium
Benin
Bolivia
Bosnia & Herzegovina
Brazil
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Central African Rep.
Chad
Chile
China
Hong Kong, China
Colombia
Congo, Dem. Rep.
Congo, Rep.
Costa Rica
Côte d’Ivoire
Croatia
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominican Rep.
Ecuador
Egypt, Arab Rep.
El Salvador
Eritrea
Ethiopia
Finland
France
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Guatemala
Guinea
Haiti
Honduras
Hungary
India
Indonesia
Iran, Islamic Rep.
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Korea, Rep.
Kuwait
Kyrgyz Rep.
Lao PDR
Latvia
Lebanon
Lithuania
Macedonia, FYR
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Mali
Mauritania

3.2
32.4
14.0
38.2
3.0
20.1
8.1
8.3
140.5
9.8
10.4
6.9
9.0
3.8
178.7
7.8
12.4
7.3
13.6
16.4
31.9
3.9
8.8
16.0
1,296.5
6.8
45.3
54.8
3.9
4.1
17.1
4.5
10.2
5.4
8.9
13.2
68.7
6.7
4.5
70.0
5.2
60.0
4.5
82.6
21.1
11.1
12.6
8.1
8.6
7.1
10.1
1,079.7
217.6
66.9
4.0
6.8
57.6
2.7
127.8
5.4
15.0
32.4
48.1
2.5
5.1
5.8
2.3
4.6
3.4
2.1
17.3
11.2
25.2
11.9
2.9

Average
annual
% growth

2000–4

0.6
1.6
3.0
1.0
–0.5
1.2
0.3
0.7
1.7
–0.4
0.4
2.6
1.9
0.4
1.2
–0.9
2.4
1.9
1.8
2.0
0.9
1.5
2.9
1.2
0.7
0.7
1.7
3.0
2.8
1.6
2.0
0.7
–0.2
0.3
1.5
1.5
1.8
1.7
2.2
2.1
0.2
0.5
–1.1
0.1
1.8
0.4
2.6
2.1
1.9
2.5
0.1
1.5
1.3
1.2
1.3
1.9
–0.1
0.8
0.2
2.7
–0.2
1.9
0.6
2.9
0.9
2.3
–0.7
1.3
–0.5
0.4
2.8
2.0
2.0
2.4
2.4

Gross national
income (GNI)a
Density
people per
sq. km

2004

116
14
11
14
108
3
98
100
1,079
47
344
62
8
75
21
70
45
286
77
35
3
6
7
21
139
6,569
44
24
11
80
54
81
132
127
183
48
69
321
44
70
17
109
65
237
93
86
116
33
312
64
109
363
120
41
58
313
196
246
351
61
6
57
488
138
27
25
37
445
55
81
30
119
77
10
3

$
billions

2004

6.6
73.7
14.4
142.3
3.4
541.2
262.1
7.8
61.2
20.9
322.8
3.7
8.7
7.8
552.1
21.3
4.4
0.7
4.4
13.1
905.6
1.2
2.3
78.4
1,676.8
183.5
90.6
6.4
3.0
19.0
13.3
29.7
93.2
219.4
18.4
28.8
90.1
15.6
0.8
7.7
171.0
1,858.7
4.7
2,489.0
8.1
183.9
26.9
3.7
3.4
7.3
83.3
674.6
248.0
154.0
137.8
118.1
1,503.6
7.7
4,749.9
11.6
33.8
15.0
673.0
43.1
2.1
2.2
12.6
22.7
19.7
4.9
5.2
1.9
117.1
4.3
1.2

$
per capita

2004

2,080
2,280
1,030
3,720
1,120
26,900
32,300
950
440
2,120
31,030
530
960
2,040
3,090
2,740
360
90
320
800
28,390
310
260
4,910
1,290
26,810
2,000
120
770
4,670
770
6,590
9,150
40,650
2,080
2,180
1,310
2,350
180
110
32,790
30,090 g
1,040
30,120
380
16,610
2,130
460
390
1,030
8,270
620
1,140
2,300
34,280
17,380
26,120
2,900
37,180
2,140
2,260
460
13,980
17,970
400
390
5,460
4,980
5,740
2,350
300
170
4,650
360
420

PPP
gross national
income (GNI)b
$
billions

$
per capita

Life
expectancy
at birth
Gross
domestic
product (GDP)
per capita
% growth

Male
years

Female
years

Adult
literacy
rate
% ages 15
and older

2004

2004

2003–4

2003

2003

1998–2004

Carbon
dioxide
emissions
per capita
metric
tons
2000

16
203 d
28 d
476
13
588
258
32
278
68
326
8
23
29
1,433
61
15 d
5d
30 d
34
978
4d
13
168
7,170 f
216
309 d
37 d
3
39 d
24
53
187
170
60 d
49
283
33 d
5d
57 d
154
1,759
13 d
2,310
48 d
244
52 d
17
14 d
19 d
157
3,347 d
753
505
133
160
1,604
10
3,838
25
104
34
982
47 d
9
11
27
25
43
13
14
7
243
12
6d

5,070
6,260 d
2,030 d
12,460
4,270
29,200
31,790
3,830
1,980
6,900
31,360
1,120
2,590
7,430
8,020
7,870
1,220 d
660 d
2,180 d
2,090
30,660
1,110 d
1,420
10,500
5,530 f
31,510
6,820 d
680 d
750
9,530 d
1,390
11,670
18,400
31,550
6,750 d
3,690
4,120
4,980 d
1,050 d
810 d
29,560
29,320
2,930 d
27,950
2,280 d
22,000
4,140 d
2,130
1,680 d
2,710 d
15,620
3,100 d
3,460
7,550
33,170
23,510
27,860
3,630
30,040
4,640
6,980
1,050
20,400
19,510 d
1,840
1,850
11,850
5,380
12,610
6,480
830
620
9,630
980
2,050 d

5.6
3.4
7.7
8.0
10.3
1.8
1.9
10.6
3.7
11.5
2.6
0.2
1.6
4.6
3.9
6.1
1.6
3.5
4.2
2.8
2.0
–0.8
27.4
4.9
8.8
7.7
2.3
3.2
1.4
2.7
–4.0
2.2
4.2
2.2
0.6
5.0
2.5
–0.2
–0.2
11.2
3.6
1.9
9.6
1.5
3.3
3.8
0.1
0.5
–5.5
2.1
4.6
5.4
3.7
5.7
4.2
2.6
1.3
1.2
2.5
4.9
8.8
0.4
4.1
7.1
6.1
3.6
9.4
5.0
7.1
1.9
2.6
1.8
5.2
–0.3
4.5

72
70
45
71
71
77
76
..
62
62
75
51
62
71
65
69
42
41
53
47
76
41
47
73
69
78
69
45
50
76
45
70
72
75
64
69
68
67
50
41
75
76
69
76
54
75
63
46
50
63
69
63
65
68
75
77
77
74
78
71
56
45
71
75
61
54
66
69
66
71
54
37
71
40
49

77
72
48
78
79
83
82
..
63
74
81
55
66
77
73
76
43
42
56
49
83
42
50
80
73
83
75
46
54
81
46
78
79
80
70
74
71
74
52
43
82
83
78
81
55
81
69
47
54
69
77
64
69
71
80
81
83
78
85
74
67
46
78
79
69
56
76
73
78
76
57
38
76
42
53

99 c
70 e
67 e
97 c
99 c
..
..
99 c
41
100 c
..
34 c
87 c
95 e
88 e
98 c
..
59 e
74 e
68 e
..
49 e
26 e
96 c
91 c
..
94 e
65 e
83
96
48 e
98 c
..
..
88 e
91 c
..
80
..
42
..
..
..
..
54 c
91 e
69 c
..
52
80 c
99 c
61 c
88
77 e
..
97 e
..
88
..
90 e
100 c
74 e
..
83
99 c
69 e
100 c
..
100 c
96 c
71 e
64 c
89 c
19 c
51 c

0.9
2.9
0.5
3.8
1.1
18.0
7.6
3.6
0.2
5.9
10.0
0.3
1.3
5.1
1.8
5.3
0.1
0.0
0.0
0.4
14.2
0.1
0.0
3.9
2.2
5.0
1.4
0.1
0.5
1.4
0.7
4.5
11.6
8.4
3.0
2.0
2.2
1.1
0.1
0.1
10.3
6.2
1.3
9.6
0.3
8.2
0.9
0.2
0.2
0.7
5.4
1.1
1.3
4.9
11.1
10.0
7.4
4.2
9.3
3.2
8.1
0.3
9.1
21.9
0.9
0.1
2.5
3.5
3.4
5.5
0.1
0.1
6.2
0.1
1.2

Note: For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.

292

Table 1. Key indicators of development—continued
Population

Millions

2004

Mexico
103.8
Moldova
4.2
Mongolia
2.5
Morocco
30.6
Mozambique
19.1
Namibia
2.0
Nepal
25.2
Netherlands
16.3
New Zealand
4.1
Nicaragua
5.6
Niger
12.1
Nigeria
139.8
Norway
4.6
Oman
2.7
Pakistan
152.1
Panama
3.0
Papua New Guinea
5.6
Paraguay
5.8
Peru
27.5
Philippines
83.0
Poland
38.2
Portugal
10.4
Romania
21.9
Russian Federation
142.8
Rwanda
8.4
Saudi Arabia
23.2
Senegal
10.5
Serbia & Montenegro
8.2
Sierra Leone
5.4
Singapore
4.3
Slovak Rep.
5.4
Slovenia
2.0
South Africa
45.6
Spain
41.3
Sri Lanka
19.4
Sudan
34.4
Sweden
9.0
Switzerland
7.4
Syrian Arab Rep.
17.8
Tajikistan
6.4
Tanzania
36.6
Thailand
62.4
Togo
5.0
Tunisia
10.0
Turkey
71.7
Turkmenistan
4.9
Uganda
25.9
Ukraine
48.0
United Kingdom
59.4
United States
293.5
Uruguay
3.4
Uzbekistan
25.9
Venezuela, RB
26.1
Vietnam
82.2
West Bank & Gaza
3.5
Yemen, Rep.
19.8
Zambia
10.5
Zimbabwe
13.2
World
6,345.1 s
Low income
2,338.1
Middle income
3,006.2
Lower middle income 2,430.3
Upper middle income 575.9
Low & middle income 5,344.3
East Asia & Pacific
1,870.2
Europe & Central Asia 472.1
Latin America & Carib. 541.3
Middle East & N. Africa 294.0
South Asia
1,447.7
Sub-Saharan Africa
719.0
High income
1,000.8

Average
annual
% growth

2000–4

1.4
–0.4
1.2
1.6
2.0
1.8
2.2
0.5
1.3
2.5
3.0
2.4
0.5
2.5
2.4
1.5
2.3
2.3
1.5
2.0
–0.3
0.5
–0.7
–0.5
2.2
2.8
2.3
..
1.9
1.9
0.0
0.1
0.9
0.5
1.3
2.2
0.3
0.7
2.3
1.1
2.0
0.7
2.1
1.1
1.5
1.5
2.7
–0.8
0.2
1.0
0.6
1.3
1.8
1.1
4.2
3.0
1.6
1.0
1.2 w
1.8
0.9
0.9
0.7
1.3
0.9
–0.1
1.4
1.8
1.7
2.2
0.7

Gross national
income (GNI)a
Density
people per
sq. km

2004

54
128
2
69
24
2
176
480
15
46
10
154
15
9
197
41
12
15
22
278
125
114
95
8
341
11
54
80
76
6,470
110
99
38
83
301
14
22
187
97
46
41
122
91
64
93
10
132
83
247
32
19
63
30
252
564
37
14
34
49 w
80
44
63
20
55
118
20
27
33
303
30
30

$
billions

2004

703.1
2.6
1.5
46.5
4.7
4.8
6.5
515.1
82.5
4.5
2.8
54.0
238.4
20.5
90.7
13.5
3.3
6.8
65.0
96.9
232.4
149.8
63.9
487.3
1.9
242.2
7.0
21.7
1.1
105.0
34.9
29.6
165.3
875.8
19.6
18.2
321.4
356.1
21.1
1.8
11.6 j
158.7
1.9
26.3
268.7
6.6
6.9
60.3
2,016.4
12,150.9
13.4
11.9
105.0
45.1
3.8
11.2
4.7
..
39,833.6 t
1,184.3
6,594.2
3,846.9
2,747.8
7,777.5
2,389.4
1,553.3
1,948.1
588.6
860.3
432.0
32,064.0

$
per capita

2004

6,770
710 h
590
1,520
250
2,370
260
31,700
20,310
790
230
390
52,030
7,890
600
4,450
580
1,170
2,360
1,170
6,090
14,350
2,920
3,410
220
10,430
670
2,620 i
200
24,220
6,480
14,810
3,630
21,210
1,010
530
35,770
48,230
1,190
280
330 j
2,540
380
2,630
3,750
1,340
270
1,260
33,940
41,400
3,950
460
4,020
550
1,120
570
450
.. k
6,280 w
510
2,190
1,580
4,770
1,460
1,280
3,290
3,600
2,000
590
600
32,040

PPP
gross national
income (GNI)b
$
billions

2004

995
8
5
125
22 d
14 d
37
507
90
18
10 d
130 d
177
34
328
21 d
13 d
28 d
148
406
482
201
179
1,374
11 d
325 d
18 d
..
4
115
77
41
500 d
1,035
78
64
267
261
63
7
24
500
8d
73
551
34
39 d
300
1,869
11,655
31
48
150
222
..
16
9
28
55,584 t
5,279
19,483
13,709
5,814
24,753
9,488
3,947
4,146
1,693
4,103
1,331
31,000

$
per capita

Life
expectancy
at birth
Gross
domestic
product (GDP)
$ per capita
% growth

Male
years

Female
years

Adult
literacy
rate
% ages 15
and older

2004

2003–4

2003

2003

1998–2004

9,590
1,930
2,020
4,100
1,160 d
6,960 d
1,470
31,220
22,130
3,300
830 d
930 d
38,550
13,250
2,160
6,870 d
2,300 d
4,870 d
5,370
4,890
12,640
19,250
8,190
9,620
1,300 d
14,010 d
1,720 d
..
790
26,590
14,370
20,730
10,960 d
25,070
4,000
1,870
29,770
35,370
3,550
1,150
660
8,020
1,690 d
7,310
7,680
6,910
1,520 d
6,250
31,460
39,710
9,070
1,860
5,760
2,700
..
820
890
2,180
8,760 w
2,260
6,480
5,640
10,090
4,630
5,070
8,360
7,660
5,760
2,830
1,850
30,970

2.9
7.8
9.1
1.9
5.9
3.2
1.6
1.2
3.1
1.4
–1.9
1.1
2.5
0.1
3.9
4.7
0.5
0.4
3.5
4.3
5.4
1.1
7.7
7.7
3.5
2.1
3.8
7.0
5.4
6.3
5.5
4.6
4.3
2.6
4.8
3.5
3.3
1.3
1.3
9.4
4.3
5.4
0.8
4.5
7.4
15.4
3.1
12.9
3.0
3.4
11.6
6.3
15.3
6.4
–5.6
–0.4
3.2
–6.7
2.9 w
4.4
6.0
6.2
5.9
5.5
7.6
7.0
4.5
3.3
5.0
2.4
2.8

71
63
64
67
40
41
60
76
77
67
46
44
77
73
63
73
56
69
68
68
71
73
66
60
39
72
51
70
36
76
69
72
45
76
72
57
78
78
68
63
42
67
49
71
66
61
43
63
75
75
72
64
71
68
71
57
36
39
65 w
57
67
68
65
63
68
64
68
67
62
45
75

77
71
68
71
42
40
60
81
81
71
47
45
82
76
65
77
58
73
72
72
79
80
74
72
40
75
54
75
39
80
78
80
46
84
76
60
82
83
73
69
43
72
51
75
71
68
44
74
80
80
79
70
77
72
75
58
37
38
69 w
59
72
72
73
66
71
73
74
70
64
46
81

90 e
96 e
98 c
51
46
85 c
49 c
..
..
77 e
14 c
67
..
74
49 e
92 c
57 c
92 e
88 e
93 c
..
..
97 c
99 c
64 e
79 e
39 e
96 c
30 e
93 c
100 c
100
..
..
90 c
59 e
..
..
83 e
99 c
69 c
93 c
53 e
74 c
88 e
..
69
99 c
..
..
98
99
93 c
90 c
92 e
49
68 e
90
82 w
64
90
89
93
81
85
98
88
74
64
61
91

Carbon
dioxide
emissions
per capita
metric
tons
2000

4.3
1.5
3.1
1.3
0.1
1.0
0.1
8.7
8.3
0.7
0.1
0.3
11.1
8.2
0.8
2.2
0.5
0.7
1.1
1.0
7.8
5.8
3.8
9.9
0.1
18.1
0.4
3.7
0.1
14.7
6.6
7.3
7.4
7.0
0.6
0.2
5.3
5.4
3.3
0.6
0.1
3.3
0.4
1.9
3.3
7.5
0.1
6.9
9.6
19.8
1.6
4.8
6.5
0.7
..
0.5
0.2
1.2
3.8 w
0.8
3.2
2.9
6.3
2.2
2.1
6.7
2.7
4.2
0.9
0.7
12.4

Note: a. Calculated using the World Bank Atlas method. b. PPP is purchasing power parity; see definitions. c. National estimates based on census data. d. The estimate is based on regression;
others are extrapolated from the latest International Comparison Programme benchmark estimates. e. National estimates based on survey data. f. Estimate based on bilateral comparison
between China and the United States (Ruoen and Kai 1995). g. GNI and GNI per capita estimates include the French overseas departments of French Guiana, Guadeloupe, Martinique, and
Réunion. h. Excludes data for Transnistria. i. Excludes data for Kosovo. j. Data refers to mainland Tanzania only. k. Estimated to be low income ($825 or less).

293

Table 2. Millennium Development Goals: eradicating poverty and improving lives
Achieve
universal
primary
education

Eradicate extreme
poverty and hunger
Proportion of
population
below $1
(PPP) a day
%

1989–94a

Survey year

Albania
Algeria
Angola
Argentina
Armenia
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bangladesh
Belarus
Belgium
Benin
Bolivia
Bosnia & Herzegovina
Brazil
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Central African Rep.
Chad
Chile
China
Hong Kong, China
Colombia
Congo, Dem. Rep.
Congo, Rep.
Costa Rica
Côte d’Ivoire
Croatia
Czech Rep.
Denmark
Dominican Rep.
Ecuador
Egypt, Arab Rep.
El Salvador
Eritrea
Ethiopia
Finland
France
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Guatemala
Guinea
Haiti
Honduras
Hungary
India
Indonesia
Iran, Islamic Rep.
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Korea, Rep.
Kuwait
Kyrgyz Rep.
Lao PDR
Latvia
Lebanon
Lithuania
Macedonia, FYR
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Mali
Mauritania

c

2002
1995 c
2001 d
2003 c, e
2001 c
2000 c
2000 c
1999 c
2001 d
2003 c, e
1998 c
1998 c
1997 c
2001 c
1993 c
2000 d
2001 c
1999 d
2000 d
2002 c, e
2001 c
1996 d
1998 d
1998 d
1999–2000 c
2000 d
1999–2000 c
2001 c
1998–99 c
2000 d
2001 c, e
1999 d
2002 c
1999–2000 c
2002 c
1998 c

2000 c
2002 c
2003 c
1997 c
1998 d
2002 c
1997–98 c
1998 c
2000 c
2003 c
2001 c
1997–98 c
1997 d
1994 c
2000 c

Prevalence of
child malnutrition
% of children
under 5

<2
<2
..
3.3
<2
..
..
3.7
36.0
<2
..
..
14.4
..
8.2
<2
44.9
54.6
34.1
17.1
..
66.6
..
<2
16.6
..
8.2
..
..
2.0
14.8
<2
<2
..
<2
17.7
3.1
31.1
..
23.0
..
..
2.7
..
44.8
..
16.0
..
67.0
20.7
<2
35.3
7.5
<2
..
..
..
<2
..
<2
<2
22.8
<2
..
<2
26.3
<2
..
<2
<2
61.0
41.7
<2
72.3
25.9

..
9.2
20.0
1.9
..
..
..
..
68.3
..
..
35.0
14.9
..
7.0
..
32.7
37.5
..
15.1
..
..
..
1.0
17.4
..
10.1
..
23.9
2.2
23.8
0.7
1.0
..
10.3
16.5
9.9
11.2
41.0
47.7
..
..
..
..
27.3
..
33.2
..
26.8
18.3
2.2
53.2
39.9
..
..
..
..
4.6
..
6.4
..
22.5
..
..
..
40.0
..
..
..
..
45.2
27.6
22.4
30.6
47.6

2000–3a

13.6
6.0
30.5
..
2.6
..
..
6.8
52.2
..
..
22.9
..
4.1
..
..
37.7
45.1
45.2
..
..
..
28.0
0.8
10.0
..
6.7
31.0
..
..
..
..
..
..
5.3
..
8.6
10.3
39.6
47.2
..
..
..
..
22.1
..
22.7
..
17.2
16.6
..
..
27.3
..
..
..
..
..
..
4.4
..
19.9
..
..
5.8
40.0
..
..
..
..
33.1
25.4
..
33.2
31.8

Primary
completion
rate (%)

1988/89– 2000/01–
1993/94b 2003/04a

..
80
39
100
91
..
..
..
46
94
..
22
71
..
97
90
19
47
..
56
..
27
19
..
105
102
71
47
54
72
46
83
..
98
62
92
..
59
19
22
97
104
81
101
61
100
..
17
29
65
82
78
93
101
..
..
104
89
101
104
..
86
98
53
..
46
73
..
89
99
35
36
88
12
33

101
96
..
103
110
..
101
106
73
99
..
51
101
..
112
97
29
31
81
70
..
..
25
104
98
101
88
32
59
94
51
96
106
107
93
100
91
89
40
39
101
98
82
101
62
..
66
41
..
79
102
81
95
107
..
..
101
85
..
98
110
73
97
96
93
74
101
68
102
100
47
71
92
40
43

Promote
gender
equality

Reduce
child
mortality

Gender parity
ratio in
primary and
secondary
school
(%)

Under-five
mortality
rate per
1,000

1990/91 2002/03

1990

45
69
260
28
60
10
10
105
144
17
9
185
120
22
60
19
210
190
115
139
8
180
203
19
49
..
36
205
110
17
157
13
13
9
65
57
104
60
147
204
7
9
47
9
125
11
82
240
150
59
17
123
91
72
9
12
9
20
6
40
63
97
9
16
80
163
18
37
14
33
168
241
21
250
162

96
83
..
..
..
101
95
100
77
..
101
48
90
..
..
99
61
82
73
83
99
60
41
101
87
103
114
..
85
100
66
102
98
101
..
..
81
101
..
68
109
102
98
99
77
99
..
44
95
..
100
70
93
85
104
105
100
102
101
101
102
92
99
97
..
75
100
..
..
99
98
81
102
58
67

100
99
..
102
101
98
97
97
107
102
106
66
98
..
103
97
72
79
85
85
100
..
59
100
98
101
104
..
87
101
69
101
101
103
108
100
94
96
76
69
106
100
100
99
91
100
93
69
..
..
100
88
98
95
104
99
99
101
100
101
100
94
100
104
100
83
99
102
99
99
..
92
105
71
94

Note: For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.

294

Combat
HIV/AIDS
and other
diseases

Improve maternal health

HIV
prevalence
% of
population
ages 15–49

Maternal
mortality
rate per
100,000
live births
Modeled
estimates

Births attended
by skilled
health staff
% of total

2003

2003

2000

1990–2a

2000–3a

21
41
260
20
33
6
6
91
69
17
5
154
66
17
35
17
207
190
140
166
7
180
200
9
37
..
21
205
108
10
192
7
5
6
35
27
39
36
85
169
4
6
45
5
95
5
47
160
118
41
7
87
41
39
7
6
6
20
5
28
73
123
5
9
68
91
12
31
11
11
126
178
7
220
107

..
0.1
3.9
0.7
..
0.1
0.3
<0.1
..
..
0.2
1.9
0.1
<0.1
0.7
0.1
1.8 f
6.0
2.6
5.5 g
0.3
13.5
4.8
0.3
0.1
0.1
0.7
4.2
4.9
0.6
7.0
<0.1
0.1
0.2
1.7
0.3
<0.1
0.7
2.7
4.4
0.1
0.4
0.1
0.1
3.1
0.2
1.1
3.2
5.6
1.8
0.1
0.9
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.5
1.2
<0.1
<0.1
0.2
6.7 f
<0.1
..
0.1
0.1
0.6
0.1
0.1
<0.1
1.7
14.2
0.4
1.7 h
0.6

55
140
1,700
82
55
8
4
94
380
35
10
850
420
31
260
32
1,000
1,000
450
730
6
1,100
1,100
31
56
..
130
990
510
43
690
8
9
5
150
130
84
150
630
850
6
17
32
8
540
9
240
740
680
110
16
540
230
76
5
17
5
87
10
41
210
1,000
20
5
110
650
42
150
13
23
550
1,800
41
1,200
1,000

..
77
..
96
..
100
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
97
72
..
..
..
..
58
..
..
..
..
..
..
82
..
..
98
..
..
..
..
93
..
37
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
31
..
45
..
..
32
..
..
..
..
..
100
87
..
..
98
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
57
55
..
..
40

94
92
45
99
97
..
..
84
14
100
..
66
65
100
..
..
..
25
32
60
..
44
16
100
97
..
86
61
..
98
63
..
..
..
98
..
69
69
28
6
..
..
..
..
..
..
41
..
24
56
..
43
68
90
..
..
..
..
..
100
..
41
..
..
..
19
..
..
..
98
46
61
97
41
57

Table 2. Millennium Development Goals: eradicating poverty and improving lives—continued
Achieve
universal
primary
education

Eradicate extreme
poverty and hunger
Proportion of
population
below $1
(PPP) a day
%

1989–94a

Survey year

Mexico
Moldova
Mongolia
Morocco
Mozambique
Namibia
Nepal
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Romania
Russian Federation
Rwanda
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia & Montenegro
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Slovak Rep.
Slovenia
South Africa
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Sweden
Switzerland
Syrian Arab Rep.
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand
Togo
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Uganda
Ukraine
United Kingdom
United States
Uruguay
Uzbekistan
Venezuela, RB
Vietnam
West Bank & Gaza
Yemen, Rep.
Zambia
Zimbabwe
World
Low income
Middle income
Lower middle income
Upper middle income
Low & middle income
East Asia & Pacific
Europe & Central Asia
Latin America & Carib.
Middle East & N. Africa
South Asia
Sub-Saharan Africa
High income

c

2000
2001 c
1998 c
1999 c
1996 c
1993 d
1995–96 c
2001 c
1995 c
2003 c, e
2001 c, e
2000 d
2002 d
2000 d
2000 c
2001 c
1994 d
2002 c
2002 c
1999–2000 c
1995 c
1989 c
1996 d
1998 c
2000 c
2002 c, e

2003 c
1991 c
2000 c
2000 c
2002 c, e
1998 c
1999 d
2000 d
2000 c
2000 d, e
2000 c
1998 c
1998 c
1995–96 c

Prevalence of
child malnutrition
% of children
under 5

9.9
21.8
27.0
<2
37.9
34.9
39.1
..
..
45.1
60.6
70.8
..
..
17.0
7.2
..
16.4
18.1
15.5
<2
<2
<2
<2
51.7
..
22.3
..
57.0
..
<2
<2
10.7
..
5.6
..
..
..
..
7.4
48.5
<2
..
<2
4.8
12.1
..
2.9
..
..
<2
17.3
9.9
..
..
15.7
63.7
56.1

16.6
..
12.3
9.5
..
26.2
..
..
..
11.0
42.6
39.1
..
24.3
40.0
6.1
..
3.7
10.7
29.6
..
..
5.7
4.2
29.4
..
22.2
..
28.7
..
..
..
..
..
37.7
33.9
..
..
12.1
..
28.9
18.6
24.6
10.3
10.4
..
23.0
..
..
1.4
4.4
..
4.5
44.9
..
39.0
25.2
15.5
29.3 t
46.8
14.7
15.9
9.2
30.6
20.6
..
9.7
13.0
53.2
33.2
..

2000–3a

..
..
12.7
..
..
24.0
48.3
..
..
9.6
40.1
28.7
..
..
35.0
..
..
..
7.1
..
..
..
3.2
5.5
24.3
..
22.7
1.9
27.2
3.4
..
..
..
..
..
40.7
..
..
6.9
..
..
..
..
4.0
..
12.0
22.9
3.2
..
..
..
7.9
4.4
33.8
..
..
28.1
..
.. w
..
11.8
12.3
..
..
15.3
..
..
..
..
31.4
..

Primary
completion
rate (%)

1988/89– 2000/01–
1993/94b 2003/04a

88
95
..
47
28
77
55
..
98
44
18
63
..
73
..
86
51
66
..
87
96
98
96
95
44
57
45
71
..
..
96
97
81
..
103
44
96
..
99
100
46
..
40
75
..
..
..
93
..
..
95
..
81
..
..
..
..
96
.. w
65
94
95
90
81
97
94 k
88
82
74
50
..

99
83
108
75
52
92
78
98
96
75
26
82
..
73
..
98
53
93
102
95
98
..
89
93
37
61
48
96
56
..
99
95
99
..
113
49
101
99
88
100
58
86
78
101
95
..
63
98
..
..
92
103
90
95
106
66
69
81
.. w
71
96
96
96
84
97
95 k
96
87
80
59
..

Promote
gender
equality

Reduce
child
mortality

Gender parity
ratio in
primary and
secondary
school
(%)

Under-five
mortality
rate per
1,000

1990/91 2002/03

1990

46
37
104
85
242
86
145
9
11
68
320
235
9
30
138
34
101
37
80
63
19
15
32
21
173
44
148
26
302
8
15
9
60
9
32
120
7
9
44
119
163
40
152
52
78
97
160
22
10
11
24
79
27
53
..
142
180
80
95 w
148
56
60
40
103
59
46
53
80
130
187
11

98
105
109
70
73
111
57
97
100
112
56
78
102
89
..
99
79
98
..
100
101
103
99
104
96
84
68
103
67
95
..
..
103
104
102
77
102
97
85
..
96
95
59
86
81
..
77
..
98
100
..
94
105
..
..
..
..
96
87 w
74
91
89
99
84
89
98
..
82
71
79
100

103
102
110
88
79
104
85
98
103
104
69
81
101
97
71
100
87
98
97
102
97
102
100
..
95
93
87
101
70
..
100
99
100
102
103
86
111
96
93
88
..
97
..
102
85
..
96
99
116
100
105
98
104
93
1
61
91
95
95 w
87
99
99
99
94
98
..
102
92
89
83
101

Combat
HIV/AIDS
and other
diseases

Improve maternal health

HIV
prevalence
% of
population
ages 15–49

Maternal
mortality
rate per
100,000
live births
Modeled
estimates

2003

2003

2000

28
32
68
39
147
65
82
6
6
38
262
198
5
12
98
24
93
29
34
36
7
5
20
21
203
26
137
14
284
5
8
4
66
4
15
93
4
6
18
95
165
26
140
24
39
102
140
20
7
8
14
69
21
23
..
113
182
126
84 w
119
40
42
30
85
41
36
33
56
86
171
7

0.3
0.2
<0.1
0.1
12.2
21.3
0.5
0.2
0.1
0.2
1.2
5.4
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.9
0.6
0.5
0.5
<0.1
0.1
0.4
<0.1
1.1
5.1
..
0.8
0.2
..
0.2
<0.1
<0.1
15.6 i
0.7
<0.1
2.3
0.1
0.4
<0.1
<0.1
8.8
1.5
4.1
<0.1
..
<0.1
4.1
1.4
0.2
0.6
0.3
0.1
0.7
0.4
..
0.1
15.6 j
24.6
1.1 w
2.1
0.7
0.7
0.6
1.2
0.2
0.7
0.7
0.1
0.8
7.2
0.4

83
36
110
220
1,000
300
740
16
7
230
1,600
800
16
87
500
160
300
170
410
200
13
5
49
67
1,400
23
690
11
2,000
30
3
17
230
4
92
590
2
7
160
100
1,500
44
570
120
70
31
880
35
13
17
27
24
96
130
..
570
750
1,100
407 w
689
115
121
67
444
116
58
193
162
567
916
13

Births attended
by skilled
health staff
% of total

1990–2a

..
..
..
31
..
68
7
..
..
..
15
31
..
..
19
..
..
67
..
..
..
..
..
..
26
..
..
..
..
..
..
100
..
..
..
69
..
..
..
..
44
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
16
51
..
.. w
..
..
..
..
..
..
97
..
..
..
..
..

2000–3a

..
..
99
..
48
78
11
..
..
67
16
35
..
95
23
..
..
..
59
60
..
..
..
99
31
..
58
99
42
..
..
..
..
..
97
..
..
..
..
71
..
99
49
90
..
97
39
..
..
..
..
96
94
85
97
..
43
..
57 w
38
86
85
..
57
87
..
..
80
36
39
..

a. Data are for the most recent year available. b. Data are for 1990 or closest year. c. Expenditure base. d. income base. e. Preliminary data. f. Survey data, 2003. g. Survey data, 2004. h. Survey
data, 2001. i. Survey data, 2002. j. Survey data, 2001/2002. k. Represent only 61% of the population.

295

Table 3. Economic activity
Value added as % of GDP

Gross domestic
product

Albania
Algeria
Angola
Argentina
Armenia
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bangladesh
Belarus
Belgium
Benin
Bolivia
Bosnia & Herzegovina
Brazil
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Central African Rep.
Chad
Chile
China
Hong Kong, China
Colombia
Congo, Dem. Rep.
Congo, Rep.
Costa Rica
Côte d’Ivoire
Croatia
Czech Rep.
Denmark
Dominican Rep.
Ecuador
Egypt, Arab Rep.
El Salvador
Eritrea
Ethiopia
Finland
France
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Guatemala
Guinea
Haiti
Honduras
Hungary
India
Indonesia
Iran, Islamic Rep.
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Korea, Rep.
Kuwait
Kyrgyz Rep.
Lao PDR
Latvia
Lebanon
Lithuania
Macedonia, FYR
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Mali
Mauritania

Agricultural productivity
Agr. Value added per
agricultural worker
2000 dollars

Agriculture

Industry Services

$
millions
2004

Avg.
annual
% growth
2000–4

1989–91

2001–3

2004

2004

7,590
84,649
20,108
151,501
3,549
631,256
290,109
8,523
56,844
22,849
349,830
4,075
8,773
8,121
604,855
24,131
4,824
657
4,597
14,733
979,764
1,331
4,285
94,105
1,649,329
163,005
97,384
6,571
4,384
18,395
15,286
34,200
107,047
243,043
18,673
30,282
75,148
15,824
925
8,077
186,597
2,002,582
5,091
2,714,418
8,620
203,401
27,451
3,508
3,535
7,371
99,712
691,876
257,641
162,709
183,560
117,548
1,672,302
8,030
4,623,398
11,196
40,743
15,600
679,674
41,748
2,205
2,412
13,629
21,768
22,263
5,246
4,364
1,813
117,776
4,863
1,357

6.0
4.8
8.1
–0.1
12.0
3.3
1.2
10.7
5.1
6.7
1.2
4.5
2.6
3.8
2.0
4.7
5.2
2.7
5.6
4.6
2.5
–1.4
14.3
3.4
8.7
3.2
2.9
3.5
3.4
3.9
–1.5
4.5
2.9
1.2
2.4
4.2
3.5
1.9
3.3
3.7
2.2
1.4
7.6
0.5
4.8
4.1
2.3
2.9
–1.0
3.3
3.5
6.2
4.6
6.2
5.4
0.9
0.8
1.7
1.3
5.1
10.3
1.5
4.7
2.4
4.5
5.7
7.5
4.4
7.5
0.8
0.9
1.8
4.3
6.3
5.3

770
1,801
207
6,507
..
20,601
11,153
..
239
..
19,687
360
662
..
1,658
2,434
140
119
..
725
27,739
291
164
4,775
242
..
3,315
230
319
3,039
610
..
..
18,564
2,273
1,969
1,497
1,571
..
..
16,056
20,265
..
10,963
315
7,579
2,121
171
802
950
2,247
341
477
1,799
..
..
11,411
1,910
19,163
1,456
..
184
5,312
..
..
351
..
..
..
..
187
77
3,694
203
244

1,354
1,964
161
9,272
2,646
26,957
24,456
1,026
309
2,259
38,431
583
739
..
3,004
6,310
163
104
292
1,143
36,702
407
220
6,177
357
..
2,900
196
329
4,306
806
8,956
4,300
36,320
4,076
1,441
1,952
1,613
64
123
30,391
38,647
1,374
22,127
338
9,226
2,261
225
469
1,133
4,041
397
556
2,354
..
..
21,436
1,937
25,339
960
1,385
148
9,888
..
929
459
2,385
24,371
4,071
2,935
176
130
4,571
227
278

25
13
9
10
25
3
2
13
21
16
1
36
15
15
5
10
31
51
36
44
..
61
61
9
15
0
13
58
6
9
25
8
3
2
11
7
15
9
15
46
3
3
20
1
35
7
22
25
28
14
4
22
17
11
3
..
3
5
1
2
7
16
3
..
39
49
4
13
7
12
29
39
10
38
19

19
74
65
32
39
26
32
54
27
38
26
14
30
32
17
27
20
20
28
16
..
25
9
34
51
12
0
19
56
29
19
29
39
26
31
30
32
33
24
10
31
24
25
29
22
24
19
37
17
31
31
26
46
41
42
..
28
29
30
25
39
19
35
..
23
26
25
19
33
28
16
15
48
26
30

2004

Household
final cons.
expenditure
% of GDP
2004

General gov’t.
final cons.
expenditure
% of GDP
2004

Gross
capital
formation
% of GDP
2004

External
balance of
goods and
services
% of GDP
2004

GDP
implicit
deflator
Avg. annual
% growth
2000–4

56
14
27
59
36
71
66
32
53
46
72
50
55
53
78
63
49
29
37
40
..
14
30
57
35
88
87
23
39
63
55
63
57
71
58
63
52
58
61
44
66
73
54
69
43
69
59
38
55
55
65
52
38
48
55
..
70
66
68
73
53
65
62
..
38
25
71
68
60
60
55
46
42
36
51

88
49
71
70
83
60
57
63
78
77
55
77
72
91
61
69
82
98
88
71
56
87
53
58
42
59
67
92
36
71
73
57
50
47
73
64
75
86
97
77
52
55
81
59
80
67
90
86
98
74
69
67
65
49
44
59
60
71
57
81
58
79
55
50
71
84
63
82
67
83
81
88
45
78
85

10
8
.. a
8
10
18
19
12
5
11
23
14
14
23
14
19
13
8
.. a
11
19
10
5
12
12
10
21
4
16
10
9
20
23
26
5
11
10
12
54
22
22
24
9
19
12
15
5
6
5
14
11
11
8
14
15
29
19
16
18
20
11
17
13
26
17
5
21
17
16
11
9
15
14
10
18

25
29
12
18
25
25
23
49
23
14
20
20
13
21
19
23
19
11
23
18
20
7
25
23
45
22
15
7
23
21
8
28
28
20
21
22
17
17
22
20
18
19
24
18
27
26
17
11
23
29
24
23
23
36
22
18
20
32
24
21
25
12
29
9
16
19
29
21
23
22
24
11
21
20
17

–23
14
17
5
–18
–2
2
–24
–7
–2
3
–11
1
–35
5
–11
–14
–16
–11
0
4
–4
18
7
1
9
–2
–3
26
–2
10
–5
0
7
1
3
–2
–14
–73
–19
7
1
–15
4
–19
–8
–12
–2
–27
–17
–4
–1
4
1
19
–6
1
–20
2
–22
6
–8
3
16
–4
–8
–13
–20
–7
–17
–15
–15
21
–8
–20

3.6
6.0
95.3
13.3
4.1
2.9
1.8
4.1
4.5
41.7
1.9
3.2
4.8
3.0
10.6
4.0
3.0
6.6
1.5
2.7
2.2
2.0
5.7
5.5
2.0
–3.9
7.0
55.5
–2.9
9.0
3.3
3.3
3.1
1.9
20.6
12.0
4.3
2.7
15.8
2.3
1.3
1.7
5.0
1.2
24.4
3.5
7.2
8.6
17.5
7.3
7.6
3.9
7.9
19.3
3.8
1.8
2.8
9.9
–1.9
1.7
9.2
9.9
2.9
0.6
4.2
11.3
3.9
2.7
0.4
2.3
9.6
15.0
2.8
4.7
6.8

Note: For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.

296

Table 3. Economic activity—continued
Value added as % of GDP

Gross domestic
product

Millions
of dollars
2004

Mexico
676,497
Moldova
2,595
Mongolia
1,525
Morocco
50,055
Mozambique
5,548
Namibia
5,456
Nepal
6,707
Netherlands
577,260
New Zealand
99,687
Nicaragua
4,353
Niger
3,081
Nigeria
72,106
Norway
250,168
Oman
21,698
Pakistan
96,115
Panama
13,793
Papua New Guinea
3,909
Paraguay
7,127
Peru
68,395
Philippines
86,429
Poland
241,833
Portugal
168,281
Romania
73,167
Russian Federation
582,395
Rwanda
1,845
Saudi Arabia
250,557
Senegal
7,665
Serbia & Montenegro
23,996
Sierra Leone
1,075
Singapore
106,818
Slovak Rep.
41,092
Slovenia
32,182
South Africa
212,777
Spain
991,442
Sri Lanka
20,055
Sudan
19,559
Sweden
346,404
Switzerland
359,465
Syrian Arab Rep.
23,133
Tajikistan
2,078
b
Tanzania
10,851
Thailand
163,491
Togo
2,061
Tunisia
28,185
Turkey
301,950
Turkmenistan
6,167
Uganda
6,833
Ukraine
65,149
United Kingdom
2,140,898
United States
11,667,515
Uruguay
13,138
Uzbekistan
11,960
Venezuela, RB
109,322
Vietnam
45,210
West Bank & Gaza
3,454
Yemen, Rep.
12,834
Zambia
5,389
Zimbabwe
17,750
World
40,887,837 t
Low income
1,253,353
Middle income
6,930,704
Lower middle income
3,941,575
Upper middle income
2,988,438
Low & middle income
8,183,030
East Asia & Pacific
2,367,508
Europe & Central Asia 1,768,088
Latin America & Carib. 2,018,715
Middle East & N. Africa 600,256
South Asia
878,785
Sub-Saharan Africa
543,990
High income
32,715,777

Avg.
annual
% growth
2000–4

1.5
6.9
5.2
4.5
8.5
3.2
2.6
0.3
3.9
2.3
4.1
4.9
1.7
3.5
4.1
3.3
0.6
1.2
3.6
4.2
2.8
0.3
5.5
6.1
5.1
3.4
4.6
4.5
15.8
2.8
4.6
3.2
3.2
2.5
3.8
6.0
2.0
0.5
3.1
9.9
6.8
5.3
2.6
4.3
4.2
18.5
5.8
8.6
2.2
2.6
–1.2
4.8
–1.3
7.2
–13.3
3.6
4.4
–7.0
2.5 w
5.4
4.4
5.7
2.7
4.6
7.5
5.0
1.5
4.5
5.8
3.9
2.0

Agricultural productivity
Agr. Value added per
agricultural worker
2000 dollars

Agriculture

Industry Services

1989–91

2001–3

2004

2004

2004

Household
final cons.
expenditure
% of GDP
2004

2,224
..
1,003
1,580
117
792
196
23,496
19,930
1,167
174
576
19,055
..
563
2,320
390
2,201
1,196
910
..
3,807
2,079
..
179
7,270
270
..
..
25,523
..
..
1,992
8,740
696
308
20,416
..
2,065
..
246
493
356
2,144
1,749
..
187
..
21,655
26,105
5,346
..
5,016
212
..
361
188
260
.. w
320
..
413
..
434
..
..
2,174
..
344
312
..

2,708
726
694
1,515
136
1,003
208
38,085
26,526
1,934
172
836
30,854
..
690
3,470
434
2,380
1,734
1,016
1,358
5,444
3,430
2,204
222
13,964
260
..
..
32,980
..
30,243
2,359
14,852
737
613
30,469
..
2,799
412
283
588
404
2,438
1,764
1,253
230
1,442
25,609
47,566
6,632
1,520
6,153
290
..
504
205
277
817 w
375
699
567
2,664
556
398
1,856
2,837
..
406
326
..

4
23
26
17
26
11
40
3
..
18
40
26
1
..
23
7
26
27
10
14
3
4
13
5
42
5
17
..
53
0
3
3
4
3
17
39
2
..
24
24
45
10
41
13
12
..
32
14
1
..
13
35
4
22
6
15
21
17
.. w
23
10
12
7
12
15
8
7
14
22
13
..

25
21
14
30
31
26
23
26
..
25
17
49
38
..
24
17
39
24
30
32
31
29
40
34
22
55
21
..
30
35
29
36
31
30
25
18
28
..
28
21
16
44
23
28
27
..
21
40
27
..
27
22
41
40
12
40
35
24
.. w
25
34
37
30
33
49
31
23
39
26
28
..

71
55
60
53
43
64
37
72
..
57
43
24
61
..
54
76
35
49
60
54
66
68
47
61
36
40
62
..
17
65
68
61
65
67
58
43
70
..
47
55
39
46
36
60
61
..
47
46
72
..
60
43
54
38
82
45
44
59
.. w
52
56
51
64
55
36
61
70
47
52
58
..

68
97
53
65
76
56
76
50
60
74
82
40
46
44
73
64
56
79
70
73
64
61
67
51
84
30
76
92
83
41
56
54
63
58
76
71
49
61
60
101
78
57
86
65
65
51
76
55
66
71
71
55
50
66
84
78
68
72
62 w
69
58
55
62
59
47
60
65
62
69
65
63

General gov’t.
final cons.
expenditure
% of GDP
2004

12
15
19
18
11
29
10
25
18
16
12
22
23
22
9
6
14
7
10
10
18
21
11
19
13
23
14
18
13
11
20
20
20
18
8
12
28
12
10
.. a
13
11
10
14
13
14
16
19
21
15
12
18
13
7
53
13
13
17
17 w
12
13
13
14
13
12
17
12
12
10
18
18

Gross
capital
formation
% of GDP
2004

22
21
38
24
22
23
26
21
21
36
16
21
18
16
18
27
18
18
19
17
20
25
22
21
21
19
21
18
20
18
26
27
18
26
25
20
16
20
23
9
19
27
18
25
26
27
22
19
16
18
15
18
21
35
3
17
25
8
21 w
22
27
31
21
26
39
23
20
26
22
19
20

External
balance of
goods and
services
% of GDP
2004

–2
–32
–10
–6
–9
–7
–12
5
1
–26
–10
17
14
18
0
3
12
–4
2
0
–2
–7
–1
9
–18
28
–11
–29
–16
30
–3
–1
0
–2
–9
–3
7
7
7
–10
–10
5
–13
–4
–4
8
–14
7
–3
–4
2
8
16
–8
–39
–8
–6
2
0w
–3
2
1
3
1
2
–1
4
–1
–3
0
0

GDP
implicit
deflator
Avg. annual
% growth
2000–4

7.0
11.5
9.5
1.0
12.0
6.6
3.9
3.2
2.6
5.8
1.9
15.7
1.4
–0.6
5.1
1.0
7.3
11.9
2.2
5.0
1.9
3.6
23.7
15.8
5.1
3.9
1.9
29.6
4.7
0.5
4.3
6.4
7.1
4.3
8.4
8.3
1.7
1.2
3.2
23.8
5.9
2.1
0.7
2.5
31.9
7.0
4.0
9.0
3.0
1.9
13.4
33.1
27.7
5.1
10.9
8.0
20.8
87.9

Note: a. Data on general government final consumption expenditure are not available; they are included in household final consumption expenditure. b. Data covers mainland Tanzania only.

297

Table 4. Trade, aid, and finance
Merchandise trade
Exports

Albania
Algeria
Angola
Argentina
Armenia
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bangladesh
Belarus
Belgium
Benin
Bolivia
Bosnia & Herzegovina
Brazil
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Central African Rep.
Chad
Chile
China
Hong Kong, China
Colombia
Congo, Dem. Rep.
Congo, Rep.
Costa Rica
Côte d’Ivoire
Croatia
Czech Rep.
Denmark
Dominican Rep.
Ecuador
Egypt, Arab Rep.
El Salvador
Eritrea
Ethiopia
Finland
France
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Guatemala
Guinea
Haiti
Honduras
Hungary
India
Indonesia
Iran, Islamic Rep.
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Korea, Rep.
Kuwait
Kyrgyz Rep.
Lao PDR
Latvia
Lebanon
Lithuania
Macedonia, FYR
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Mali
Mauritania

Imports

External debt

$
millions
2004

$
millions
2004

Manufactured
exports
% of total
merchandise
exports
2003

580
31,713
14,440
34,320
715
86,582
115,657
3,600
8,150
11,093
308,854
600
2,092
1,784
96,474
9,888
380
42
2,455
2,630
321,967
115
1,820
32,000
593,369
265,670 d
16,090
1,600
3,150
6,301
5,500
8,022
66,008
75,565
5,660
7,538
7,682
3,295
20
650
61,144
451,034
649
914,839
2,830
14,760
2,792
640
362
1,560
54,175
72,530
69,710
42,450
104,100
36,874
346,060
1,385
565,490
3,970
20,251
2,650
253,910
27,390
719
455
3,882
1,749
9,111
1,637
990
470
126,497
1,140
365

2,150
18,199
4,960
22,309
1,351
107,763
115,072
3,500
12,100
16,343
287,236
770
1,772
5,890
65,904
14,378
1,150
180
2,985
2,100
275,799
145
780
24,823
561,423
273,010
16,530
1,940
1,570
8,268
3,650
16,583
67,876
67,200
7,660
7,861
12,831
6,269
670
3,300
51,043
464,090
1,847
717,491
3,910
53,082
7,420
700
1,301
3,890
59,216
95,156
46,180
32,700
60,118
43,425
349,049
3,641
454,530
7,892
13,300
4,660
224,440
11,630
941
655
6,898
9,338
12,362
2,856
1,260
745
105,176
1,200
400

84
2
..
27
62
30
78
6
89
62
80 b
8
17
..
52
66
17
2
1
7
61
37
..
16
91
93 d
36
10
..
66
20
72
90
66
34
12
31
57
..
11
84
81
31
84
16
58
40
25
..
21
87
77
52
8
86
93
87
64
93
69
18
24
93
7
39
..
60
68
63
72
38
12
77
40
21

High
technology
exports
% of
manufactured
exports
2003

1
2
..
9
1
14
13
5
0
4
8b
2
8
..
12
4
2
22
..
2
14
0
..
3
27
13
7
..
..
45
8
12
13
20
1
6
0
5
..
0
24
19
24
16
3
12
7
0
..
0
26
5
14
2
34
18
8
0
24
2
9
4
32
1
2
..
4
2
5
1
0
1
58
8
..

Current
account
balance
$
millions
2004

–407
..
1,178
3,029
–167
–39,542
988
–2,021
132
–1,043
..
–143
36
–1,917
11,669
–1,813
–449
–100
–125
..
25,870
..
..
1,390
45,875
16,039
–1,110
..
–3
–967
–305
–1,668
–5,661
6,963
867
–455
3,743
–612
–78
–65
7,810
–4,833
–349
104,301
352
–11,225
–1,051
–245
–13
–279
–8,819
6,853
..
..
–748
504
–20,556
–761
172,059
–44
533
–847
27,613
18,884
–95
..
–1,673
–4,109
–1,590
–279
–309
–185
13,381
–271
..

Net private
capital
flows
$
millions
2003

Foreign
direct
investment
$
millions
2003

176
593
1,903
1,169
115
..
..
3,235
86
127
..
51
295
400
13,432
1,655
11
8
87
154
..
4
837
3,844
59,455
..
–1,185
187
201
842
69
8,031
5,342
..
1,112
2,143
–361
406
22
54
..
..
320
..
–166
..
68
79
8
140
5,149
10,651
–3,685
1,151
..
..
..
513
..
–161
5,674
195
..
..
–12
19
570
394
–141
90
13
23
2,207
129
218

178
634
1,415
1,020
121
7,032
7,276
3,285
102
172
125,060 b
51
167
382
10,144
1,419
11
0
87
215
6,273
4
837
2,982
53,505
13,624
1,746
158
201
577
180
1,998
2,514
1,185
310
1,555
237
89
22
60
3,436
43,068
338
25,568
137
717
116
79
8
198
2,506
4,269
–597
120
26,599
3,880
16,538
721
6,238
376
2,088
82
3,222
–67
46
19
300
358
179
95
13
23
2,473
129
214

Official
development
assistance
or official aida
$
per capita
2003

Note: For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.

298

108
7
37
3
81

36
10
3
..
44
105
141
2
53
37
31
38
55
13
29
5
1
1
18
101
19
7
15
27
26
8
14
13
29
70
22

48
44
20
30
24
56
25
1
8
2
66
1
233
18
15
–10
2
39
53
49
51
108
114
32
45
4
45
85

Total
$
millions
2003

Present
value
% of GNI
2003

Domestic credit
provided by
banking sector
% of GDP
2004

1,482
23,386
9,698
166,207
1,127
..
..
1,680
18,778
2,692
..
1,828
5,684
2,920
235,431
13,289
1,844
1,310
3,139
9,189
..
1,328
1,499
43,231
193,567
..
32,979
11,170
5,516
5,424
12,187
23,452
34,630
..
6,291
16,864
31,383
7,080
635
7,151
..
..
1,935
..
7,957
..
4,981
3,457
1,308
5,641
45,785
113,467
134,389
11,601
..
..
..
5,584
..
8,337
22,835
6,766
..
..
2,021
2,846
8,803
18,598
8,342
1,837
4,958
3,134
49,074
3,129
2,360

21
40
100
115
29
..
..
23
25
18
..
28 c
37 c
37
54
86
19 c
150
71
52 c
..
155
45 c
67
15
..
46
149
368
36
89
102
48
..
33
82
31
56
57
24 c
..
..
44
..
38 c
..
21
59 c
29
55
70
19
71
8
..
..
..
86
..
82
94
43
..
..
98
91
92
104
58
40
31 c
109 c
56
42 c
73 c

45.7
24.8
4.5
45.4
6.6
110.0
122.7
11.2
40.7
21.2
112.2
9.9
52.2
45.7
80.9
36.2
13.5
36.6
8.7
14.9
96.8
16.4
7.7
70.2
166.9
149.3
34.2
1.3
11.8
42.5
18.8
68.4
45.7
165.9
36.2
20.1
116.2
49.2
148.2
4.0
69.5
107.2
18.8
142.9
31.4
105.1
15.1
15.5
31.7
37.4
59.6
59.9
48.8
9.7
118.4
82.8
105.3
31.3
154.8
94.1
18.5
40.8
100.8
106.0
8.4
9.6
54.5
179.0
30.0
22.1
15.0
23.2
134.3
17.7
–6.7

Net
migration
thousands
1995–2000

–267
–185
–120
–100
–225
510
45
–128
–300
14
99
–29
–100
350
–130
–50
–121
–400
100
0
733
11
99
60
–1,950
300
–200
–1,410
42
128
150
–150
52
84
–180
–300
–500
–38
–9
–77
20
219
–350
1,134
–51
300
–390
–227
–105
–20
100
–1,400
–900
–456
89
276
600
–100
280
35
–1,320
–21
–80
347
–27
–7
–56
–30
–109
–5
–3
–50
390
–284
10

Table 4. Trade, aid, and finance—continued
Merchandise trade
Exports

Mexico
Moldova
Mongolia
Morocco
Mozambique
Namibia
Nepal
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Romania
Russian Federation
Rwanda
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia & Montenegro
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Slovak Rep.
Slovenia
South Africa
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Sweden
Switzerland
Syrian Arab Rep.
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand
Togo
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Uganda
Ukraine
United Kingdom
United States
Uruguay
Uzbekistan
Venezuela, RB
Vietnam
West Bank & Gaza
Yemen, Rep.
Zambia
Zimbabwe
World
Low income
Middle income
Lower middle income
Upper middle income
Low & middle income
East Asia & Pacific
Europe & Central Asia
Latin America & Carib.
Middle East & N. Africa
South Asia
Sub-Saharan Africa
High income

Imports

$
millions
2004

$
millions
2004

188,627
986
858
9,661
1,390
1,830
756
358,781
20,358
771
430
31,148
82,018
14,236
13,326
950
2,460
1,626
12,467
39,598
74,094
34,983
23,553
183,185
80
119,550
1,530
3,408
140
179,547 d
27,660
15,805
45,929 f
178,960
5,800
3,777
121,012
118,384
6,435
915
1,440
97,701
720
9,685
62,774
3,870
705
32,672
345,610
819,026
2,905
4,238
31,360
26,229
..
4,555
1,410
1,250
9,122,837 t
215,695
2,244,720
1,223,079
1,021,641
2,460,424
964,989
615,333 j
458,500
170,996
101,332
149,265
6,662,445

206,423
1,774
988
17,514
1,765
2,450
1,877
319,864
23,186
1,884
560
14,164
48,203
7,865
17,908
3,466
1,670
2,916
9,880
42,635
87,849
53,776
32,691
94,834
250
42,954
2,680
11,194
285
163,820
29,448
17,297
55,200 f
249,813
7,950
4,075
97,644
111,468
5,320
1,375
2,535
95,384
930
12,738
97,161
3,320
1,480
28,996
461,983
1,526,380
3,072
3,310
17,300
31,029
..
3,790
1,670
2,990
9,338,667 t
251,818
2,138,024
1,170,291
967,734
2,389,837
895,174
626,097 j
437,379
153,367
138,464
139,357
6,948,809

External debt
Manufactured
exports
% of total
merchandise
exports
2003

81
32
38
69
8
41
..
71
29
13
8
..
21
14
85
11
6
14
22
90
81
86
83
21
10
10
34
..
7
85 d
88
90
58 f
77
74
3
81
93
11
..
18
75
58
81
84
..
9
67
78
80
34
..
13
50
..
..
14
38
77 w
60
64
68
61
64
81
57
57
20
79
..
80

High
technology
exports
% of
manufactured
exports
2003

21
3
0
11
3
3
..
31
10
4
3
..
19
2
1
1
39
6
2
74
3
9
4
19
25
0
9
..
31
59
4
6
5
7
1
7
15
22
1
..
2
30
1
4
2
..
8
5
26
31
2
..
4
2
..
..
2
3
18 w
4
20
22
19
19
33
12
14
3
4
..
18

Current
account
balance
$
millions
2004

–7,798
–132
–105
1,434
–516
337
171
16,403
–6,232
–780
..
..
34,445
1,446
–808
–1,104
..
76
–72
3,347
–3,585
–12,682
–3,311
60,109
–76
51,488
–507
–3,148
–65
28,183
–282
–275
–6,982
–49,225
–131
–818
22,844
50,568
752
–40
–1,062
7,281
–140
–715
–15,451
444
–250
2,891
–46,879
–665,939
103
1,134
14,575
–604
..
–296
..
..

Net private
capital
flows
$
millions
2003

Foreign
direct
investment
$
millions
2003

9,541
84
131
2,395
313
..
14
..
..
230
23
952
..
–557
132
1,077
2
121
2,562
1,350
7,118
..
3,880
15,784
5
..
79
1,462
3
..
1,525
..
4,148
..
236
1,349
..
..
146
6
264
1,155
20
1,326
2,849
..
202
1,550
..
..
37
79
3,539
1,192
..
–89
91
–5
.. s
18,208
181,237
103,824
77,412
199,444
62,049
67,110
41,087
4,848
11,143
13,208
..

10,783
58
132
2,279
337
..
15
15,695
2,438
201
31
1,200
2,055
138
534
792
101
91
1,377
319
4,123
6,610
1,844
7,958
5
–587
78
1,360
3
11,431
571
337
820
25,513
229
1,349
3,268
17,547
150
32
248
1,949
20
541
1,562
100
194
1,424
20,696
39,889
275
70
2,520
1,450
..
–89
100
20
572,774 s
13,283
138,493
90,627
47,867
151,776
59,612
35,614
36,533
4,756
5,163
10,099
420,998

Official
development
assistance
or official aida
$
per capita
2003

1
28
100
17
55
73
19

152
39
2
17
7
10
40
9
18
9
31
28
9
39
1
44
162
56
2
30
33
14
35
19

9
23
47
–16
9
31
2
6
38
7

5
8
3
22
289
13
54
14
12 w
14
9
8
10
14
4
22
12
26
4
34

Total
$
millions
2003

Present
value
% of GNI
2003

140,004
1,901
1,472
18,795
4,930
..
3,253
..
..
6,915
2,116
34,963
..
3,886
36,345
8,770
2,463
3,210
29,857
62,663
95,219
..
21,280
175,257
1,540
..
4,419
14,885 e
1,612
..
18,379
..
27,807
..
10,238
17,496
..
..
21,566
1,166
7,516
51,793
1,707
15,502
145,662
..
4,553
16,309
..
..
11,764
5,006
34,851
15,817
..
5,377
6,425
4,445
.. s
414,454
2,139,684
1,053,736
1,085,948
2,554,138
525,535
675,998
779,632
158,827
182,785
231,360
..

25
95
97
47
38 c
..
38
..
..
40 c
26 c
76
..
19
41
92
81
51
60
81
48
..
46
52
58 c
..
36 c
84
100 c
..
69
..
22
..
50
120
..
..
113
77
22 c,g
41
91
75
81
0
33 c
37
..
..
91
46
43
39
..
40
121
50

Domestic credit
provided by
banking sector
% of GDP
2004

34.9
32.0
36.8
82.5
5.9
55.8
..
166.9
120.6
88.4
11.4
13.2
11.1
38.1
40.1
90.4
23.4
18.5
17.4
54.0
34.6
151.1
15.3
26.0
13.5
64.2
21.7
..
30.3
80.2
44.0
55.7
84.5
138.7
44.6
11.5
113.1
175.2
30.1
16.5
9.2
105.4
16.7
71.0
0.0
..
11.0
30.7
157.9
270.8
53.3
..
10.8
61.0
..
5.2
35.3
58.7
171.1 w
47.1
76.4
104.4
40.7
72.1
140.7
27.2
49.7
49.0
56.1
45.4
205.5

Net
migration
thousands
1995–2000

–2,000
–70
–90
–300
75
20
–99
161
20
–155
–6
–95
67
–40
–41
11
0
–25
–350
–900
–71
175
–350
2,300
1,977
75
–100
–100
–110
368
9
8
364
676
–160
–207
60
80
–30
–345
–206
–88
128
–20
135
–50
–66
–700
574
6,200
–16
–400
40
–200
11
–50
86
–125
.. w,i
–4,422
–9,689
–10,646
957
–14,111
–3,859
–1,858
–4,156
–1,396
–2,401
–439
14,104

Note: a. Regional aggregates include data for economies that are not specified elsewhere. World and income group totals include aid not allocated by country or region. b. Includes
Luxembourg. c. Data are from debt sustainability analysis undertaken as part of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative. d. Includes re-exports. e. Data are estimates and reflect
borrowing by the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia that are not yet allocated to the successor republics. f. Data on total exports and imports refer to South Africa only. Data on
export commodity shares refer to the South African Customs Union (Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland). g. GNI refers to mainaland Tanzania only. i. World totals computed by the UN sum to zero, but because the aggregates shown here refer to World Bank definitions, regional and income group totals do not equal zero. j. Data include the intratrade of the
Baltic states and the Commonwealth of Independent States.

299

Table 5. Key indicators for other economies
Gross national
income (GNI)a

Population

Thousands
2004

Afghanistan
American Samoa
Andorra
Antigua and Barbuda
Aruba
Bahamas, The
Bahrain
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bhutan
Botswana
Brunei
Cape Verde
Cayman Islands
Channel Islands
Comoros
Cuba
Cyprus
Djibouti
Dominica
Equatorial Guinea
Estonia
Faeroe Islands
Fiji
French Polynesia
Gabon
Gambia, The
Greenland
Grenada
Guam
Guinea-Bissau
Guyana
Iceland
Iraq
Isle of Man
Kiribati
Korea, Dem. Rep.
Lesotho
Liberia
Libya
Liechtenstein
Luxembourg
Macao, China
Maldives
Malta
Marshall Islands
Mauritius
Mayotte
Micronesia, Fed. Sts.
Monaco
Myanmar
Northern Mariana Islands
Netherlands Antilles
New Caledonia
Palau
Puerto Rico
Qatar
Samoa
San Marino
São Tomé & Principe
Seychelles
Solomon Islands
Somalia
St. Kitts and Nevis
St. Lucia
St. Vincent & the Grenadines
Suriname
Swaziland
Timor-Leste
Tonga
Trinidad & Tobago
United Arab Emirates
Vanuatu
Virgin Islands (U.S.)

..
57
66
80
99
320
725
272
283
64
896
1,727
361
481
44
149
614
11,365
776
716
71
506
1,345
48
848
246
1,374
1,449
57
106
164
1,533
772
290
25,261
77
98
22,745
1,809
3,449
5,674
34
450
449
300
401
60
1,234
172
127
33
49,910
77
222
229
20
3,929
637
179
28
161
85
471
9,938
47
164
108
443
1,120
925
102
1,323
4,284
215
113

Avg.
annual
% growth
2000–4

..
..
..
2.5
..
1.2
2.0
0.4
3.1
0.0
2.7
0.8
1.7
2.5
..
0.0
2.4
0.4
0.6
1.8
0.0
2.5
–0.5
..
1.1
1.1
2.2
2.5
0.4
1.0
1.5
2.9
0.4
0.8
2.1
..
1.9
0.5
0.9
2.4
2.0
..
0.7
1.0
2.2
0.7
3.7
1.0
..
1.8
..
1.2
..
0.8
1.8
1.2
0.7
2.1
1.0
..
2.0
1.1
2.9
3.3
1.5
1.2
–0.8
1.0
1.7
4.3
0.4
0.7
6.9
2.2
1.0

Density
people
per
sq. km
2004

$
millions
2004

$
per
capita
2004

..
285
136
182
521
32
1,022
632
12
1,280
19
3
69
119
745
745
276
103
84
31
95
18
32
34
46
67
5
145
0
311
298
55
4
125
58
135
134
189
60
171
3
213
174
265
998
400
174
16,842
460
181
159
76
161
277
13
43
277
58
63
463
167
188
17
16
131
268
278
3
65
62
141
258
51
18
333

5,543
..
..
800
..
4,684
8,834
2,507
1,115
..
677
7,490
..
852
..
..
328
..
13,633
739
261
..
9,435
..
2,281
..
5,415
414
..
397
..
250
765
11,199
..
..
95
..
1,336
391
25,257
..
25,302
..
752
4,913
142
5,730
..
252
..
..
..
..
..
137
..
..
333
653
60
685
260
..
357
706
396
997
1,859
506
186
11,360
..
287
..

.. c
.. d
.. e
10,000
.. e
14,920
12,410
9,270
3,940
.. e
760
4,340
.. e
1,770
.. e
.. e
530
.. h
17,580
1,030
3,650
.. d
7,010
.. e
2,690
.. e
3,940
290
.. e
3,760
.. e
160
990
38,620
.. h
.. e
970
.. c
740
110
4,450
.. e
56,230
.. e
2,510
12,250
2,370
4,640
.. d
1,990
.. e
.. c
.. d
.. e
.. e
6,870
.. e
.. e
1,860
.. e
370
8,090
550
.. c
7,600
4,310
3,650
2,250
1,660
550
1,830
8,580
.. e
1,340
.. e

PPP
gross national
income (GNI)b

$
millions
2004

..
..
..
829
..
5,068
12,860
4,075
1,840
..
..
15,405
..
2,720 g
..
..
1,131 g
..
17,320 g
1,624 g
375
3,745
17,741
..
4,893 g
..
7,692
2,753 g
..
740
..
1,058
3,173 g
9,384
..
..
..
..
5,806
..
..
..
27,549
9,605 g
..
7,507
..
14,650
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
1,015 g
..
..
1,320
829 g
..
526
910
677
..
5,566
..
735 g
14,795
78,834 g
600
..

Life
expectancy
at birth

$
per
capita
2004

Gross
domestic
product
per capita
% growth
2003–4

Male
years
2003

Female
years
2003

..
..
..
10,360
..
16,140
18,070
15,060
6,510
..
..
8,920
..
5,650 g
..
..
1,840 g
..
22,330 g
2,270 g
5,250
7,400
13,190
..
5,770 g
..
5,600
1,900 g
..
7,000
..
690
4,110 g
32,360
..
..
..
..
3,210
..
..
..
61,220
21,880 g
..
18,720
..
11,870
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
5,670 g
..
..
15,590
1,760 g
..
11,190
5,560
6,250
..
4,970
..
7,220 g
11,180
21,000 g
2,790
..

..
..
..
2.3
..
–0.6
4.7
0.9
0.9
..
2.3
4.3
..
2.9
..
..
–0.5
0.9
2.9
1.6
1.6
7.4
6.8
..
2.2
..
–0.2
6.2
..
–3.8
..
1.3
1.1
4.8
..
..
0.3
..
2.1
–0.2
2.4
..
4.0
8.9
6.5
0.9
–3.6
3.2
..
–5.5
..
..
..
..
..
0.5
..
..
2.6
..
2.4
–3.2
0.7
..
3.3
1.6
4.8
3.5
0.8
–3.5
1.3
5.3
–5.4
0.7
..

..
..
..
73
..
66
71
72
70
75
62
38
74
66
..
75
60
75
76
43
75
50
65
..
68
71
52
52
65
70
76
44
58
78
62
..
60
61
36
46
70
..
75
77
68
76
..
69
..
67
..
55
..
73
70
..
72
75
67
..
63
69
68
46
69
72
70
68
42
60
69
70
74
67
77

..
..
..
78
..
74
76
77
73
80
65
38
79
72
..
84
63
79
81
43
79
54
77
..
71
77
54
55
73
76
80
47
67
82
64
..
66
65
38
48
75
..
82
82
71
81
..
76
..
71
..
60
..
79
78
..
82
75
73
..
69
77
71
49
74
76
76
73
43
64
74
74
77
70
80

Adult
literacy
rate
% ages 15
and older
1998–2004

..
..
..
..
..
..
88 f
100
77 f
..
..
79
93 f
76
..
..
56
97
97 f
..
..
84 i
100 f
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
81 i
56
82
..
..
91 f
97
..
..
84 f
..
..
..
90 i
..
97
..
..
94
89 i
99
..
..
92 f
..
..
..
90 f
..
88 i
79 i
..
..
98
77
74 f
..

Carbon
dioxide
emissions
per capita
metric tons
2000

..
..
..
4.9
..
5.9
29.1
4.4
3.1
7.2
0.5
2.3
14.2
0.3
..
..
0.1
2.8
8.5
0.6
1.4
0.4
11.7
..
0.9
2.3
2.8
0.2
9.9
2.1
26.3
0.2
2.1
7.7
3.3
..
0.3
8.5
..
0.1
10.9
..
19.4
3.8
1.8
7.2
..
2.4
..
..
..
0.2
..
46.2
7.8
12.7
2.3
69.6
0.8
..
0.6
2.8
0.4
..
2.4
2.1
1.4
5.0
0.4
..
1.2
20.5
18.1
0.4
121.2

Note: For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
a. Calculated using the World Bank Atlas method. b. PPP is purchasing power parity; see Definitions. c. Estimated to be low income ($825 or less). d. Estimated to be upper middle income
($3,256–$10,065 ). e. Estimated to be high income ($10,066 or more). f. National estimate based on census data. g. The estimate is based on regression; others are extrapolated from the latest
International Comparison Programme benchmark estimates. h. Estimated to be lower middle income ($826–$3,255 ). i. National estimates based on survey data.

300

Selected world development indicators

Technical notes
These technical notes discuss the sources and methods used
to compile the indicators included in this edition of Selected
World Development Indicators. The notes follow the order
in which the indicators appear in the tables. Note that the
Selected World Development Indicators uses terminology in
line with the 1993 System of National Accounts (SNA). For
example, in the 1993 SNA gross national income replaces
gross national product.

Sources
The data published in the Selected World Development
Indicators are taken from World Development Indicators
2005. Where possible, however, revisions reported since the
closing date of that edition have been incorporated. In addition, newly released estimates of population and gross
national income (GNI) per capita for 2004 are included in
table 1.
The World Bank draws on a variety of sources for the statistics published in the World Development Indicators. Data
on external debt for developing countries are reported
directly to the World Bank by developing member countries
through the Debtor Reporting System. Other data are drawn
mainly from the U.N. and its specialized agencies, from the
IMF, and from country reports to the World Bank. Bank staff
estimates are also used to improve currentness or consistency. For most countries, national accounts estimates are
obtained from member governments through World Bank
economic missions. In some instances these are adjusted by
staff to ensure conformity with international deﬁnitions and
concepts. Most social data from national sources are drawn
from regular administrative ﬁles, special surveys, or periodic
censuses.
For more detailed notes about the data, please refer to the
World Bank’s World Development Indicators 2005.

Data consistency and reliability
Considerable effort has been made to standardize the data,
but full comparability cannot be assured, and care must be
taken in interpreting the indicators. Many factors affect data
availability, comparability, and reliability: statistical systems
in many developing economies are still weak; statistical
methods, coverage, practices, and deﬁnitions differ widely;
and cross-country and intertemporal comparisons involve
complex technical and conceptual problems that cannot be
unequivocally resolved. Data coverage may not be complete
because of special circumstances or for economies experiencing problems (such as those stemming from conﬂicts)
affecting the collection and reporting of data. For these reasons, although the data are drawn from the sources thought
to be most authoritative, they should be construed only as
indicating trends and characterizing major differences

301

among economies rather than offering precise quantitative
measures of those differences. Discrepancies in data presented in different editions reﬂect updates by countries as
well as revisions to historical series and changes in methodology. Thus readers are advised not to compare data series
between editions or between different editions of World
Bank publications. Consistent time series are available from
the World Development Indicators 2005 CD-ROM.

Ratios and growth rates
For ease of reference, the tables usually show ratios and rates
of growth rather than the simple underlying values. Values
in their original form are available from the World Development Indicators 2005 CD-ROM. Unless otherwise noted,
growth rates are computed using the least-squares regression
method (see statistical methods on page 305). Because this
method takes into account all available observations during
a period, the resulting growth rates reﬂect general trends
that are not unduly inﬂuenced by exceptional values. To
exclude the effects of inﬂation, constant price economic
indicators are used in calculating growth rates. Data in italics
are for a year or period other than that speciﬁed in the column heading—up to two years before or after for economic
indicators and up to three years for social indicators, because
the latter tend to be collected less regularly and change less
dramatically over short periods.

Constant price series
An economy’s growth is measured by the increase in value
added produced by the individuals and enterprises operating
in that economy. Thus measuring real growth requires estimates of GDP and its components valued in constant prices.
The World Bank collects constant price national accounts
series in national currencies and recorded in the country’s
original base year. To obtain comparable series of constant
price data, it rescales GDP and value added by industrial origin to a common reference year, currently 2000. This process
gives rise to a discrepancy between the rescaled GDP and the
sum of the rescaled components. Because allocating the discrepancy would give rise to distortions in the growth rate, it
is left unallocated.

Summary measures
The summary measures for regions and income groups, presented at the end of most tables, are calculated by simple
addition when they are expressed in levels. Aggregate growth
rates and ratios are usually computed as weighted averages.
The summary measures for social indicators are weighted by
population or subgroups of population, except for infant
mortality, which is weighted by the number of births. See the
notes on speciﬁc indicators for more information.

302

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

For summary measures that cover many years, calculations are based on a uniform group of economies so that the
composition of the aggregate does not change over time.
Group measures are compiled only if the data available for a
given year account for at least two-thirds of the full group, as
deﬁned for the 2000 benchmark year. As long as this criterion is met, economies for which data are missing are
assumed to behave like those that provide estimates. Readers
should keep in mind that the summary measures are estimates of representative aggregates for each topic and that
nothing meaningful can be deduced about behavior at the
country level by working back from group indicators. In
addition, the estimation process may result in discrepancies
between subgroup and overall totals.

Table 1. Key indicators of development
Population is based on the de facto deﬁnition, which counts
all residents, regardless of legal status or citizenship, except
for refugees not permanently settled in the country of asylum, who are generally considered part of the population of
the country of origin.
Average annual population growth rate is the exponential rate of change for the period (see the section on statistical methods on page 305).
Population density is midyear population divided by land
area. Land area is a country’s total area excluding areas under
inland bodies of water and coastal waterways. Density is calculated using the most recently available data on land area.
Gross national income (GNI—formerly gross national
product or GNP), the broadest measure of national income,
measures total value added from domestic and foreign
sources claimed by residents. GNI comprises gross domestic
product (GDP) plus net receipts of primary income from
foreign sources. Data are converted from national currency
to current U.S. dollars using the World Bank Atlas method.
This involves using a three-year average of exchange rates to
smooth the effects of transitory exchange rate ﬂuctuations.
See the section on statistical methods for discussion of the
Atlas method.
GNI per capita is GNI divided by midyear population. It
is converted into current U.S. dollars by the Atlas method.
The World Bank uses GNI per capita in U.S dollars to classify
economies for analytical purposes and to determine borrowing eligibility.
PPP gross national income, which is GNI converted into
international dollars using purchasing power parity (PPP)
conversion factors, is included because nominal exchange
rates do not always reﬂect international differences in relative prices. At the PPP rate, one international dollar has the
same purchasing power over domestic GNI that the U.S. dollar has over U.S. GNI. PPP rates allow a standard comparison of real price levels between countries, just as conventional price indexes allow comparison of real values over

time. The PPP conversion factors used here are derived from
price surveys covering 118 countries conducted by the International Comparison Program. For Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) countries
data come from the most recent round of surveys, completed in 1999; the rest are either from the 1996 survey, or
data from the 1993 or earlier round and extrapolated to the
1996 benchmark. Estimates for countries not included in the
surveys are derived from statistical models using available
data.
PPP GNI per capita is PPP GNI divided by midyear population.
Gross domestic product (GDP) per capita growth is
based on GDP measured in constant prices. Growth in GDP
is considered a broad measure of the growth of an economy.
GDP in constant prices can be estimated by measuring the
total quantity of goods and services produced in a period,
valuing them at an agreed set of base year prices, and subtracting the cost of intermediate inputs, also in constant
prices. See the section on statistical methods for details of
the least-squares growth rate.
Life expectancy at birth is the number of years a newborn infant would live if patterns of mortality prevailing at
its birth were to stay the same throughout its life.
Adult literacy rate is the percentage of persons aged 15
and above who can, with understanding, read and write a
short, simple statement about their everyday life.
Carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions measures those emissions stemming from the burning of fossil fuels and the
manufacture of cement. These include carbon dioxide produced during consumption of solid, liquid, and gas fuels and
from gas ﬂaring.
The Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center
(CDIAC), sponsored by the U.S. Department of Energy, calculates annual anthropogenic emissions of CO2. These calculations are derived from data on fossil fuel consumption,
based on the World Energy Data Set maintained by the
UNSD, and from data on world cement manufacturing,
based on the Cement Manufacturing Data Set maintained by
the U.S. Bureau of Mines. Each year the CDIAC recalculates
the entire time series from 1950 to the present, incorporating
its most recent ﬁndings and the latest corrections to its database. Fuels supplied to ships and aircraft engaged in international transportation are excluded in these estimates because
of the difﬁculty of apportioning these fuels among the countries beneﬁting from that transport.

Table 2. Millennium Development Goals:
eradicating poverty and improving lives
Proportion of population below $1 a day (PPP$) is the percentage of the population living on less than $1.08 a day at
1993 international prices. For further information on
poverty data, see the technical note for Table A1.

Selected world development indicators

Prevalence of child malnutrition is the percentage of
children under ﬁve whose weight for age is less than minus
two standard deviations from the median for the international reference population ages 0–59 months. The reference
population, adopted by the World Health Organization
(WHO) in 1983, is based on children from the United States,
who are assumed to be well nourished. Estimates of child
malnutrition are from national survey data. The proportion
of children who are underweight is the most common indicator of malnutrition. Being underweight, even mildly,
increases the risk of death and inhibits cognitive development in children. Moreover, it perpetuates the problem from
one generation to the next, as malnourished women are
more likely to have low-birth-weight babies.
Primary completion rate is the percentage of students
completing the last year of primary school. It is calculated by
taking the total number of students in the last grade of primary school, minus the number of repeaters in that grade,
divided by the total number of children of ofﬁcial graduation
age. The primary completion rate reﬂects the primary cycle as
deﬁned by the International Standard Classiﬁcation of Education (ISCED), ranging from three or four years of primary
education (in a very small number of countries) to ﬁve or six
years (in most countries), and seven (in a small number of
countries). Because curricula and standards for school completion vary across countries, a high rate of primary completion does not necessarily mean high levels of student learning.
Gender parity ratio in primary and secondary school is
the ratio of female gross enrollment rate in primary and secondary school to the gross enrollment rate of males. Eliminating gender disparities in education would help to increase the
status and capabilities of women. This indicator is an imperfect measure of the relative accessibility of schooling for girls.
With a target date of 2005, this is the ﬁrst of the targets to fall
due. School enrollment data are reported to the UNESCO
Institute for Statistics by national education authorities. Primary education provides children with basic reading, writing,
and mathematics skills along with an elementary understanding of such subjects as history, geography, natural science,
social science, art, and music. Secondary education completes
the provision of basic education that began at the primary
level, and aims at laying foundations for lifelong learning and
human development, by offering more subject-or skilloriented instruction using more specialized teachers.
Under-five mortality rate is the probability that a newborn baby will die before reaching age ﬁve, if subject to current age-speciﬁc mortality rates. The probability is expressed
as a rate per 1,000. The main sources of mortality data are
vital registration systems and direct or indirect estimates
based on sample surveys or censuses. To produce harmonized estimates of under-ﬁve mortality rates that make use
of all available information in a transparent way, a methodology that ﬁts a regression line to the relationship between

303

mortality rates and their reference dates using weighted least
squares was developed and adopted by both UNICEF and
the World Bank.
Prevalence of HIV is the percentage of people ages 15–49
who are infected with HIV. Adult HIV prevalence rates
reﬂect the rate of HIV infection in each country’s population. Low national prevalence rates can be very misleading,
however. They often disguise serious epidemics that are initially concentrated in certain localities or among speciﬁc
population groups and threaten to spill over into the wider
population. In many parts of the developing world most new
infections occur in young adults, with young women especially vulnerable. The estimates of HIV prevalence are based
on extrapolations from data collected through surveys and
from surveillance of small, nonrepresentative groups.
Maternal mortality rate is the number of women who die
from pregnancy-related causes during pregnancy and childbirth, per 100,000 live births. The data shown here have been
collected in various years and adjusted to a common 1995
base year. The values are modeled estimates based on an exercise carried out by the World Health Organization (WHO)
and United Nations Children’s Fund(UNICEF). In this exercise maternal mortality was estimated with a regression model
using information on fertility, birth attendants, and HIV
prevalence. This cannot be assumed to provide an accurate
estimate of maternal mortality in any country in the table.
Births attended by skilled health staff are the percentage
of deliveries attended by personnel trained to give the necessary supervision, care, and advice to women during pregnancy, labor, and the postpartum period, to conduct deliveries
on their own, and to care for newborns. The share of births
attended by skilled health staff is an indicator of a health system’s ability to provide adequate care for a pregnant women.
Good antenatal and postnatal care improves maternal health
and reduces maternal and infant mortality. But data may not
reﬂect such improvements because health information system
are often weak, material deaths are underreported, and rates
of maternal mortality are difﬁcult to measure.

Table 3. Economic activity
Gross domestic product is gross value added, at purchasers’
prices, by all resident producers in the economy plus any
taxes and minus any subsidies not included in the value of the
products. It is calculated without deducting for depreciation
of fabricated assets or for depletion or degradation of natural
resources. Value added is the net output of an industry after
adding up all outputs and subtracting intermediate inputs.
The industrial origin of value added is determined by the
International Standard Industrial Classiﬁcation (ISIC) revision 3. The World Bank conventionally uses the U.S. dollar
and applies the average ofﬁcial exchange rate reported by the
International Monetary Fund for the year shown. An alternative conversion factor is applied if the ofﬁcial exchange rate is

304

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

judged to diverge by an exceptionally large margin from the
rate effectively applied to transactions in foreign currencies
and traded products.
Gross domestic product average annual growth rate is
calculated from constant price GDP data in local currency.
Agricultural productivity refers to the ratio of agricultural value added, measured in constant 2000 U.S. dollars, to
the number of workers in agriculture.
Value added is the net output of an industry after adding
up all out-puts and subtracting intermediate inputs. The
industrial origin of value added is determined by the International Standard Industrial Classiﬁcation (ISIC) revision 3.
Agriculture value added corresponds to ISIC divisions
1–5 and includes forestry and ﬁshing.
Industry value added comprises mining, manufacturing,
construction, electricity, water, and gas (ISIC divisions 10–45).
Services value added correspond to ISIC divisions 50–99.
Household final consumption expenditure (private
consumption in previous editions) is the market value of all
goods and services, including durable products (such as cars,
washing machines, and home computers), purchased by
households. It excludes purchases of dwellings but includes
imputed rent for owner-occupied dwellings. It also includes
payments and fees to governments to obtain permits and
licenses. Here, household consumption expenditure includes
the expenditures of nonproﬁt institutions serving households, even when reported separately by the country. In
practice, household consumption expenditure may include
any statistical discrepancy in the use of resources relative to
the supply of resources.
General government final consumption expenditure
(general government consumption in previous editions)
includes all government current expenditures for purchases
of goods and services (including compensation of employees). It also includes most expenditures on national defense
and security, but excludes government military expenditures
that are part of government capital formation.
Gross capital formation (gross domestic investment in
previous editions) consists of outlays on additions to the ﬁxed
assets of the economy plus net changes in the level of inventories and valuables. Fixed assets include land improvements
(fences, ditches, drains, and so on); plant, machinery, and
equipment purchases; and the construction of buildings,
roads, railways, and the like, including commercial and industrial buildings, ofﬁces, schools, hospitals, and private dwellings.
Inventories are stocks of goods held by ﬁrms to meet temporary or unexpected ﬂuctuations in production or sales, and
“work in progress”. According to the 1993 SNA net acquisitions
of valuables are also considered capital formation.
External balance of goods and services is exports of
goods and services less imports of goods and services. Trade
in goods and services comprise all transactions between res-

idents of a country and the rest of the world involving a
change in ownership of general merchandise, goods sent for
processing and repairs, nonmonetary gold, and services.
The GDP implicit deflator reﬂects changes in prices for all
ﬁnal demand categories, such as government consumption,
capital formation, and international trade, as well as the main
component, private ﬁnal consumption. It is derived as the
ratio of current to constant price GDP. The GDP deﬂator may
also be calculated explicitly as a Paasche price index in which
the weights are the current period quantities of output.
National accounts indicators for most developing countries are collected from national statistical organizations and
central banks by visiting and resident World Bank missions.
Data for high-income economies come from the OECD data
ﬁles.

Table 4. Trade, aid, and finance
Merchandise exports show the f.o.b. (free on board) value of
goods provided to the rest of the world valued in U.S. dollars.
Merchandise imports show the c.i.f. value of goods (the
cost of the goods including insurance and freight) purchased
from the rest of the world valued in U.S. dollars. Data on
merchandise trade come from the World Trade Organization
(WTO) in its annual report.
Manufactured exports comprise the commodities in
Standard Industrial Trade Classiﬁcation (SITC) sections 5
(chemicals), 6 (basic manufactures), 7 (machinery and
transport equipment), and 8 (miscellaneous manufactured
goods), excluding division 68.
High technology exports are products with high R&D
intensity. They include high-technology products such as in
aerospace, computers, pharmaceuticals, scientiﬁc instruments, and electrical machinery.
Current account balance is the sum of net exports of
goods and services, net income, and net current transfers.
Net private capital flows consist of private debt and nondebt ﬂows. Private debt ﬂows include commercial bank
lending, bonds, and other private credits; nondebt private
ﬂows are foreign direct investment and portfolio equity
investment.
Foreign direct investment is net inﬂows of investment to
acquire a lasting management interest (10 percent or more
of voting stock) in an enterprise operating in an economy
other than that of the investor. It is the sum of equity capital,
re-investment of earnings, other long-term capital, and
short-term capital, as shown in the balance of payments.
Data on the current account balance, private capital ﬂows,
and foreign direct investment are drawn from the IMF’s Balance of Payments Statistics Yearbook and International Financial Statistics.
Official development assistance or official aid from the
high-income members of the OECD are the main source of

Selected world development indicators

ofﬁcial external ﬁnance for developing countries, but ofﬁcial
development assistance (ODA) is also disbursed by some
important donor countries that are not members of OECD’s
Development Assistance Committee (DAC). DAC has three
criteria for ODA: it is undertaken by the ofﬁcial sector; it
promotes economic development or welfare as a main objective; and it is provided on concessional terms, with a grant
element of at least 25 percent on loans.
Ofﬁcial development assistance comprises grants and
loans, net of repayments, that meet the DAC deﬁnition of
ODA and are made to countries and territories in part I of
the DAC list of aid recipients. Ofﬁcial aid comprises grants
and ODA-like loans, net of repayments, to countries and territories in part II of the DAC list of aid recipients. Bilateral
grants are transfers in money or in kind for which no repayment is required. Bilateral loans are loans extended by governments or ofﬁcial agencies that have a grant element of at
least 25 percent and for which repayment is required in convertible currencies or in kind.
Total external debt is debt owed to nonresidents
repayable in foreign currency, goods, or services. It is the
sum of public, publicly guaranteed, and private non-guaranteed long-term debt, use of IMF credit, and short-term debt.
Short-term debt includes all debt having an original maturity of one year or less and interest in arrears on long-term
debt.
Present value of debt is the sum of short-term external
debt plus the discounted sum of total debt service payments
due on public, publicly guaranteed, and private nonguaranteed long-term external debt over the life of existing loans.
The main sources of external debt information are
reports to the World Bank through its Debtor Reporting System from member countries that have received World Bank
loans. Additional information has been drawn from the ﬁles
of the World Bank and the IMF. Summary tables of the
external debt of developing countries are published annually
in the World Bank’s Global Development Finance.
Net migration is the total number of migrants during the
period, that is, the number of immigrants less the number of
emigrants, including both citizens and noncitizens. Data
shown in the table are ﬁve-year estimates. Data are from the
United Nations Population Division’s World Population
Prospects: The 2004 Revision.
Domestic credit provided by banking sector includes all
credit to various sectors on a gross basis, with the exception
of credit to the central government, which is net. The banking sector includes monetary authorities, deposit money
banks, and other banking institutions for which data are
available (including institutions that do not accept transferable deposits but do incur such liabilities as time and savings
deposits). Examples of other banking institutions include
savings and mortgage loan institutions and building and

305

loan associations. Data are from the IMF’s International
Finance Statistics.

Statistical methods
This section describes the calculation of the least-squares
growth rate, the exponential (endpoint) growth rate, and the
World Bank’s Atlas methodology for calculating the conversion factor used to estimate GNI and GNI per capita in U.S.
dollars.
Least-squares growth rate
Least-squares growth rates are used wherever there is a sufﬁciently long time series to permit a reliable calculation. No
growth rate is calculated if more than half the observations
in a period are missing.
The least-squares growth rate, r, is estimated by ﬁtting a
linear regression trendline to the logarithmic annual values
of the variable in the relevant period. The regression equation takes the form
ln Xt = a + bt,
which is equivalent to the logarithmic transformation of the
compound growth equation,
Xt = Xo (1 + r)t.
In this equation, X is the variable, t is time, and a = log Xo
and b = ln (1 + r) are the parameters to be estimated. If b* is
the least-squares estimate of b, the average annual growth
rate, r, is obtained as [exp(b*) – 1] and is multiplied by 100
to express it as a percentage.
The calculated growth rate is an average rate that is representative of the available observations over the entire period.
It does not necessarily match the actual growth rate between
any two periods.
Exponential growth rate
The growth rate between two points in time for certain
demographic data, notably labor force and population, is
calculated from the equation
r = ln (pn /p1)/n,
where pn and p1 are the last and ﬁrst observations in the
period, n is the number of years in the period, and ln is the
natural logarithm operator. This growth rate is based on a
model of continuous, exponential growth between two
points in time. It does not take into account the intermediate
values of the series. Note also that the exponential growth
rate does not correspond to the annual rate of change measured at a one-year interval which is given by
(pn – pn – 1)/pn – 1.

306

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

World Bank Atlas method
In calculating GNI and GNI per capita in U.S. dollars for certain operational purposes, the World Bank uses the Atlas
conversion factor. The purpose of the Atlas conversion factor
is to reduce the impact of exchange rate ﬂuctuations in the
cross-country comparison of national incomes. The Atlas
conversion factor for any year is the average of a country’s
exchange rate (or alternative conversion factor) for that year
and its exchange rates for the two preceding years, adjusted
for the difference between the rate of inﬂation in the country
and that in Japan, the United Kingdom, the United States,
and the Euro Zone. A country’s inﬂation rate is measured by
the change in its GDP deﬂator. The inﬂation rate for Japan,
the United Kingdom, the United States, and the Euro Zone,
representing international inﬂation, is measured by the
change in the SDR deﬂator. (Special drawing rights, or SDRs,
are the IMF’s unit of account.) The SDR deﬂator is calculated as a weighted average of these countries’ GDP deﬂators
in SDR terms, the weights being the amount of each country’s currency in one SDR unit. Weights vary over time
because both the composition of the SDR and the relative
exchange rates for each currency change. The SDR deﬂator is
calculated in SDR terms ﬁrst and then converted to U.S. dollars using the SDR to dollar Atlas conversion factor. The
Atlas conversion factor is then applied to a country’s GNI.
The resulting GNI in U.S. dollars is divided by the midyear
population to derive GNI per capita.
When ofﬁcial exchange rates are deemed to be unreliable
or unrepresentative of the effective exchange rate during a
period, an alternative estimate of the exchange rate is used in
the Atlas formula (see below).
The following formulas describe the calculation of the
Atlas conversion factor for year t:
S$ 
S$
 p

pt 
t
* = 1 [  pt / pt  +
 +e ]
/
et
e
e 
3 t −2  p t −2 p S $  t −1  p t −1 p S $  t
t −2
t −1

and the calculation of GNI per capita in U.S. dollars for year t:
Y $t = (Yt /Nt)/et*
where et* is the Atlas conversion factor (national currency to
the U.S. dollar) for year t, et is the average annual exchange
rate (national currency to the U.S. dollar) for year t, pt is the
GDP deﬂator for year t, pS$
t is the SDR deﬂator in U.S. dollar
terms for year t, Y t$ is the Atlas GNI per capita in U.S. dollars
in year t, Yt is current GNI (local currency) for year t, and Nt
is the midyear population for year t.

Alternative conversion factors
The World Bank systematically assesses the appropriateness
of ofﬁcial exchange rates as conversion factors. An alternative conversion factor is used when the ofﬁcial exchange rate

is judged to diverge by an exceptionally large margin from
the rate effectively applied to domestic transactions of foreign currencies and traded products. This applies to only a
small number of countries, as shown in Primary data documentation table in World Development Indicators 2005.
Alternative conversion factors are used in the Atlas methodology and elsewhere in the Selected World Development
Indicators as single-year conversion factors.

Table 5. Key indicators for other economies
Population is based on the de facto deﬁnition, which counts
all residents, regardless of legal status or citizenship, except
for refugees not permanently settled in the country of asylum, who are generally considered part of the population of
the country of origin.
Average annual population growth rate is the exponential rate of change for the period (see the section on statistical methods below).
Population density is midyear population divided by land
area. Land area is a country’s total area excluding areas under
inland bodies of water and coastal waterways. Density is calculated using the most recently available data on land area.
Gross national income (GNI—formerly gross national
product or GNP), the broadest measure of national income,
measures total value added from domestic and foreign
sources claimed by residents. GNI comprises gross domestic
product (GDP) plus net receipts of primary income from
foreign sources. Data are converted from national currency
to current U.S. dollars using the World Bank Atlas method.
This involves using a three-year average of exchange rates to
smooth the effects of transitory exchange rate ﬂuctuations.
(See the section on statistical methods below for further discussion of the Atlas method.)
GNI per capita is GNI divided by midyear population. It
is converted into current U.S. dollars by the Atlas method.
The World Bank uses GNI per capita in U.S dollars to classify
economies for analytical purposes and to determine borrowing eligibility.
PPP Gross national income, which is GNI converted into
international dollars using purchasing power parity (PPP)
conversion factors, is included because nominal exchange
rates do not always reﬂect international differences in relative
prices. At the PPP rate, one international dollar has the same
purchasing power over domestic GNI that the U.S. dollar has
over U.S. GNI. PPP rates allow a standard comparison of real
price levels between countries, just as conventional price
indexes allow comparison of real values over time. The PPP
conversion factors used here are derived from price surveys
covering 118 countries conducted by the International Comparison Program. For Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) countries data come from
the most recent round of surveys, completed in 1999; the rest
are either from the 1996 survey, or data from the 1993 or ear-

Selected world development indicators

lier round and extrapolated to the 1996 benchmark. Estimates for countries not included in the surveys are derived
from statistical models using available data.
PPP GNI per capita is PPP GNI divided by midyear population.
Gross domestic product (GDP) per capita growth is
based on GDP measured in constant prices. Growth in GDP
is considered a broad measure of the growth of an economy.
GDP in constant prices can be estimated by measuring the
total quantity of goods and services produced in a period,
valuing them at an agreed set of base year prices, and subtracting the cost of intermediate inputs, also in constant
prices. See the section on statistical methods for details of
the least-squares growth rate.
Life expectancy at birth is the number of years a newborn infant would live if patterns of mortality prevailing at
its birth were to stay the same throughout its life.
Adult literacy rate is the percentage of persons aged 15
and above who can, with understanding, read and write a
short, simple statement about their everyday life.

307

Carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions measures those emissions stemming from the burning of fossil fuels and the
manufacture of cement. These include carbon dioxide produced during consumption of solid, liquid, and gas fuels and
from gas ﬂaring.
The Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center
(CDIAC), sponsored by the U.S. Department of Energy, calculates annual anthropogenic emissions of CO2. These calculations are derived from data on fossil fuel consumption,
based on the World Energy Data Set maintained by the
UNSD, and from data on world cement manufacturing,
based on the Cement Manufacturing Data Set maintained by
the U.S. Bureau of Mines. Each year the CDIAC recalculates
the entire time series from 1950 to the present, incorporating
its most recent ﬁndings and the latest corrections to its database. Estimates exclude fuels supplied to ships and aircraft
engaged in international transportation because of the difﬁculty of apportioning these fuels among the countries beneﬁting from that transport.

Index

Aarhus Convention, 217
absolute deprivation, avoidance of, 19
accountability. See voice and accountability
acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. See HIV/AIDS
affluence and wealth
business investment and, 102
inequalities in, 55
social distinctions and distribution of wealth, 2–3, 74, 89
Afghanistan
health care, 144
reconstruction aid, 219
Africa
aid to, 218, 219
capital markets, 8
Commission for Africa, 218
customary systems, 159
development experiences, 115–16
education trends, 35–36, 68
government policy effect on labor markets, 187
health services, 32
human rights regimes, 79
inequality trends, 46, 68
infant mortality, 6
infrastructure, 169, 170, 171
intercountry inequality, 38
land relations, 93
life expectancy, 56, 58, 69
overall inequality levels, 65
programs for nonworking young, 152
schooling years, 60–61
trade credit, 97
(see also specific countries)
agency, 5, 48–49, 49–50
enhancing, 205
inequalities of, 28, 49–51
internalization of disadvantage and, 49–50
agriculture
subsidies, 220
underinvestment, 98–100
aid, 17
“aid orphans/darlings,” 219
debt cancellation, 221
debt forgiveness, 222
debt relief, 221
designing, 17
efficient and effective, 17, 218, 229

improving allocation of, 218–19
increasing levels of, 219–20
innovative funding mechanisms, 221
official development assistance, 219–20
providing assistance for endowments, 218–21
tax issues and, 176
voluntary contributions/private assistance, 221
altruistic rewarding/altruistic punishment, 80
Argentina
Center for Financial Stability, 184
educational attainment/achievement, 61
infrastructure, 172, 173–74
legal approach to equity, 79
poor institutional quality, 113, 119
squatters’ rights, 164–65
Aristotle, 78–79
Armenia
health care payments, 147
“My Rights” television show, 157
stunting in children, 29
Asia
crisis behavior and costs, 201
inequality trends, 45
infant mortality, 6
poverty trends, 66
programs for nonworking young, 152
schooling years, 60–61
(see also specific countries and regions)
Asian Development Bank, credit market report, 90
Australia
educational attainment/achievement, 61
means-tested pensions, 154

Bangladesh
absent health care providers, 148
Food for Education Program, 137
health care, 144
income inequality, 64
income information sharing within household, 54
inequality trends, 45
infrastructure, 169
land and safety net programs, 166
legal approach to equity, 79
means-tested pensions, 154
microfinance, 184
309

310

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

Bangladesh (continued)
poverty trends, 66
teacher absenteeism, 35
women and household assets, 53
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, 216
biases, institutional and judicial, 5
Bolivia
obstetric care, 144
pensions, 154
Bosnia, legal institutions, 160
Botswana
HIV/AIDS, 69
pensions, 154
Brazil
basic education, 140
Bolsa Escola, 137, 153
educational attainment/achievement, 61
health education, 142, 143
health insurance, 145
inequality trends, 46
infant mortality, 29
land access, 13
legal approach to equity, 79
local government democratization, 70–71
pensions, 148–49
productivity gaps in agriculture, 99
stunting in children, 29
trade unions, 189–90
Bulgaria, education, 12
Burkino Faso, head of household education, 35

Cambodia
health care payments, 147
labor standards, 190
programs for nonworking young, 153
spatial differences, 42
squatters’ rights, 165
stunting/underweight in children, 32
voice rank, 68
Canada
intergenerational mobility, 47
intergenerational transmission of inequality, 47
capacity to aspire/capacity to engage, 21, 71
capital markets, 7–8, 16, 21–22
(see also financial markets; human capital markets)
Caribbean. See Latin America and the Caribbean
caste systems, 5, 8, 26, 96
CBHI. See community-based health insurance (CBHI)
Center for Global Development, 222
Central America
elites and taxes, 176
health education, 143
human rights regimes, 79
(see also specific countries)
Central Asia
education trends, 36
health care payments, 145

HIV/AIDS, 59
inequality trends, 46
life expectancy, 58
Centre for Development Studies, Trivandrum, credit survey,
90
children
disadvantaged, 2
health issues. See health and health care
Chile
bank privatization, 182
educational attainment/achievement, 61
health insurance, 145, 147
labor market reforms, 191
physician availability, 144
China
accession to WTO and trade reforms, 194
economic growth, 7
gender equity, 54
health care payments, 147
income and expenditure, 63, 64, 65
inequality trends, 45, 68
infrastructure, 169
institutional transitions and economic development, 119,
122–24, 125
labor market reforms, 191
land distribution, 166–67
life expectancy, 56, 142
poverty trends, 66
voice rank, 68
(see also specific provinces)
circumstances of birth and life. See predetermined
characteristics/circumstances of human beings
CIS. See Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS)
civil law, 79
collective action, Palanpur example, 27
Colombia
education, 11
health insurance, 12, 146
infant mortality, 29
infrastructure, 172
labor market reforms, 191
land rental markets, 167
PACES voucher program, 140
student achievement, 139
Commission for Real Property Claims of Displaced Persons and
Refugees, 160
Commission on Macroeconomics and Health report, 100–101
Commitment to Development Index, 222
common law, 79
Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), land transferability,
166
community-based health insurance (CBHI), 147–48
complementaries between equity and efficiency, 21–22, 74
equity–efficiency tradeoffs, 22–23, 130, 179, 204–5
complementaries between equity and prosperity, 2, 23, 74,
130
Core 25 Principles for Banking Supervision, 216
corruption, 130, 227

Index

Côte d’Ivoire
Côte d’Ivoire Living Standards Measurement Surveys, 91–92
trade credit, 97
credit markets, 89–91
crime/violence
domestic violence, 54
improved crime policies, 161–62
inequality traps and, 49–50
against women, 162
crises and crises resolution, 199–202
Cuba, health care, 144
culture, social networks and, 21
Czech Republic
educational attainment/achievement, 61
effects of regulation and disclosure in, 184–85
financial markets, 14

Dayton Agreement, 160
debt cancellation, 221
Declaration on the TRIPS Agreement and Public Health,
215–16
democracy
in governance institutions, 70–71
Spanish transition to, 105–6
Demographic and Health Survey (DHS), 29–34, 59
Denmark, voice rank, 68
developing countries
“advantage to backwardness,” 69
catch up countries, 68–69
customary systems, 159
development
long-term, 8–9, 22
regional inequality and lagging regions, 204–5
(see also equity–development relationship)
Development Agenda Framework Agreement, 216
development assistance. See aid; equity–development
relationship
development community, recent thinking and agreements of, 131,
226–29
DHS. See Demographic and Health Survey (DHS)
Dictator Game, 81
directed credit, 130, 184
disability and disabled persons, 32, 154–55
discrimination and stereotyping, 7, 21, 74, 94–96, 131
analysis of missing women and girls/gender discrimination,
223
explicit discrimination, 21
in justice systems, 158
displaced persons and refugees, 160
distributive justice, 77–78, 217
distributive policies, 3, 23, 228
investment and growth using, 102–4
poverty reduction and redistributive policies, 9–10, 74
Doha Round, 16, 210–11, 212
Declaration on the TRIPS Agreement and Public Health,
215–16
Development Agenda Framework Agreement, 216

early childhood development (ECD), 11, 132–33
benefits of early intervention, 133–34
designing programs, 134–35
earnings. See incomes, assets, and liabilities
East Asia
billionaire wealth, 38
development experiences, 114–15
East Asian crisis, 185
elite capture of financial policy and institutions, 181
income distribution dynamics, 46
inequality trends, 45
life expectancy, 56
poverty trends, 66
schooling years, 60–61
(see also specific countries)
Eastern Europe
education trends, 36
inequality trends, 46
(see also specific countries)
ECD. See early childhood development (ECD)
economic inequalities, 28, 36–43, 229
between-group shares of total inequality, 40–48
relationship between group differences and inequality,
43–48
spatial differences/inequalities, 42–43, 204–5
economic liberalization, 179
economic policies
pathologies arising in pursuit of equity, 129–30
populist macropolicy, 16, 130
Ecuador
education test results, 34
Program for the Development of Indigenous and AfroEcuadorian Peoples, 51
Quichua people, 5, 50–51
spatial differences, 42
teacher absenteeism, 35
education and educational attainment
access to schooling, 6–7, 136–38
access to teachers, 35
differences in, 6, 56
disadvantaged students, 139–40
excluded groups, 138
global inequality, 55, 60–62, 68
improving gender equity, 138
inequalities in, 27
inequalities within countries, 34–36
male and female household heads, 34–35
reaching ethnic groups, 138
rural and urban household heads, 35
schooling and basic education, 6–7, 11–12, 27, 135–41
strengthening accountability, 140–41
test results, 34
TIMSS data, 139
trends, 35–36
upgrading quality, 138–40
women and girls, 52–53, 138
efficiency, increased, 10, 74, 101–4
elderly, social programs for nonworking elderly, 153–54

311

312

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

elites, 130, 131
capture and discrimination by, 156–58, 175, 178, 180–82,
194
El Salvador, education system, 141
employment and occupations
discrimination and stereotypes, 95–96
inequalities in, 27
women, 52–53
empowerment, 50–51, 70–71, 227
endowments, 19–20
development assistance, 218–21
unequal, 17
Enhanced HICP Initiative, 222
environment, Aarhus Convention, 217
equal opportunity, 2–3, 18–19, 74
“equal opportunity policy,” 77
equity
concepts of, 78
defined, 18–19, 74
versus equality, 74
ethical and philosophical approaches to, 76–78
importance/significance considerations, 73–75
legal institutions/justice and, 78–81
equity and fairness concerns, 73–75, 129
income inequality and poverty reduction, 84–88
income inequality and subjective well-being, 82–83
intrinsic human behavior/shared concern, 7, 76, 80–84
well-being and, 76, 82–83
(see also complementaries between equity and prosperity;
equity–development relationship)
equity–development relationship, 2–4, 7, 10, 17, 129, 226–29
contemporary evidence, 113–18
historical evidence, 109–13
Indonesian example, 126–27
institutional quality, 124–25, 227–28
power distribution and institutional quality, 107–9, 129, 228
transitions to equitable institutions, 118–24
ethics
codes of conduct, 213–14
ethical approaches to equity, 76–78
fair and ethical trade, 213–14, 222
Ethiopia
health education, 142
land transactions, 93
voice rank, 68
Europe
basic education, 140
health care payments, 145
HIV/AIDS, 59
human rights regimes, 79
income inequality and subjective well-being, 82
income support for children, 152
inequality trends, 46
legal approach to equity, 79
life expectancy, 58
overall inequality levels, 65
programs for nonworking young, 152
(see also specific countries)

European Union, human rights norms and regimes, 80
extreme poverty, 19
extreme predation, 130

fair and ethical trade, 213–14, 222
fairness
equity and. See equity and fairness concerns
in markets, 11
financial markets, 14, 131
accountability and, 184–85
achieving equity and efficiency in, 179–85
Basel II Capital Accord, 215
bias in, 202
competition in, 184–85
Core 25 Principles for Banking Supervision, 215
elite influence/capture, 180–81
Financial Stability Forum, 216
foreign direct investment, 216
global standards, 216
liberalization, 216–17
liberalization paradox, 14, 179, 182–83, 203
ROSC, 216
segmentation, 185
technical design issues, 183–84
unequal access considerations, 180–81
Financial Stability Forum, 216
Finland
educational attainment/achievement, 61
institutional transitions, 119, 121–23
intergenerational mobility, 47
intergenerational transmission of inequality, 47
Foreign Policy magazine, 222
France
financial liberalization, 182
reading levels, 62

Gambia, health care, 144
GATS. See General Agreement in Trade and Services (GATS)
gender differences/inequalities, 4–5, 26, 51–54
gender discrimination, 158, 223
improving equity in education, 138
infrastructure investments and gender equity, 138
redressing, 223
General Agreement in Trade and Services (GATS), Mode IV, 2
10
Ghana
infrastructure, 169
opportunities for women, 54
trade unions, 189
global equity achievement, 206–7
analysis and research, 223
citizen mobilization, 222–23
greater global equity policies, 11, 16–17, 22
international organizations and, 223
making global markets work more equitably, 207–17, 227
providing development assistance for endowments, 218–21

Index

summary, 223
transitions to greater equity, 221–23
global governance, 131
global inequity and well-being, 6–7, 129
catch up countries and, 68–69
education, 60–62
examples and concepts, 55–56
future of, 68–69
global income inequality, 7, 55
health, 56, 58–59
three competing concepts of, 56
trends, 6
global markets, 17, 207–17, 227
(see also markets; specific markets)
governance, 11, 227
deepening and extending democracy in institutions, 70–71
global, 131
inequalities of power and, 48–51, 129
Greece, educational attainment/achievement, 61
Group of Twenty-Four, 223
groups and group differences
individual behavior/performance and group identity, 81–82
local group participation and empowerment, 23, 70–71
marginal groups, 70–71, 161
membership and initial circumstances, 19
political inequality between groups, 21
relationship between group differences and inequality,
43–48
social programs for special vulnerable groups, 154–55
trends, 44–48
Guatemala
basic education, 140
between-group differences in inequality, 41
stunting in children, 31
Guyana, development experiences, 116–18

health and health care, 12
access to immunization, 31
cognitive development in children, 11, 133
community-based health insurance, 147–48
differences in, 6
disability, 32
enhancing provider incentives, 148
expanding access to, 143–44
expanding knowledge of, 142–43
financing affordable care, 144–48
high-impact health services, 31–32
inequalities in, 141–42
inequalities within countries, 29–34
infant and child mortality, 6, 29, 56, 59, 68
life expectancy, 7, 55, 56, 58–59, 69
social inequalities damaging health, 32
stunting, 29–31
trends, 32–34
Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC), 219, 221
Enhanced HICP Initiative, 222
HIPC. See Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC)

313

history and historical perspective, 23
evidence regarding development and political power, 109–13
HIV/AIDS, 6, 18, 32–33, 33, 58, 59, 68, 69, 143, 145–55, 154
Honduras, gender discrimination, 158
Hong Kong, China, inequality trends, 45
households
domestic violence, 54
gender inequality and function of, 51–54
human behavior
conditioned by group identity, 81–82
discrimination/ stereotype effects on, 94–96
equity and fairness concerns, 7, 80–82
human capacities, 10–11, 11–13, 130, 226–27
considerations, 132
early childhood development, 11, 132–35
health and health care, 12, 141–48
schooling and basic education, 11–12, 135–41
social protection systems/risk management, 12, 148–55
summary, 155
human capital markets, 8, 94–96, 130
underinvestment, 100–101
Human Development Report of the United Nations Development
Programme, 17
human immunodeficiency virus. See HIV/AIDS
human rights protection, 17

IBRD. See International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD)
ICOR. See incremental capital–output ratio (ICOR)
ICRISAT. See International Crop Research Institute in the SemiArid Tropics (ICRISAT)
IFF. See International Financing Facility (IFF)
ILO. See International Labour Office (ILO)
immunization, access to, 31
imperfect markets. See markets
incomes, assets, and liabilities
income inequality and incentives, 83–84
income inequality and poverty reduction, 84–88
income inequality and subjective well-being, 82–83
inequalities in, 23, 27, 55, 62–66, 68
redistribution of, 102–4
women, 52–53
incremental capital–output ratio (ICOR), 97–98
India
affirmative action programs, 158
billionaire wealth, 38
capital markets, 8
caste system, 5, 8, 26, 96, 184
credit markets, 90
economic growth, 7
education, 12
effects of government intervention in labor markets, 187
gender equity, 54
Gounders, 98, 102
health care, 144
health care payments, 147–48
ICOR estimates, 98

314

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

India (continued)
ICRISAT household insurance data, 92
improved marketing channels and technology, 196
income and expenditure, 63, 64
inequality trends, 45, 68
infant and child mortality, 144
infrastructure, 169
Integrated Rural Development Program loans, 184
lack of voice, 48
land and safety net programs, 166
land rights of rent-collecting intermediaries, 163
legal approach to equity, 79
local government democratization, 70–71
means-tested pensions, 154
misallocation of capital, 98, 102
Operation Barga, 103–4
poverty trends, 66
“priority sector” lending, 97
product licensing restrictions, 196
product market reforms, 195–96
remedial education program, 140
Self-Employed Women’s Association, 147–48
stereotypes and behavior, 96
teacher absenteeism, 35
voice rank, 68
worker organizations/trade unions, 190
indigenous peoples
ILO Covenant 169, 222
Quichua people, 5, 50–51
individuals
differences in opportunities for, 131
responsibility for own welfare, 77
Indonesia
development experiences, 114–15, 118, 125
elite influence/capture, 193
financial markets, 14
growth, equity, and poverty reduction in, 126–27
health insurance, 12
infant mortality, 29
Kecamatan Development Project, 50, 71
microfinance, 184
physician availability, 144
reading levels, 62
school enrollment problems, 139
teacher absenteeism, 35
wealth inequality, 37
industry and trade, underinvestment, 96–98
inefficient inequalities, 89
inequalities
interaction of various, 20–21
macroeconomic instability as cause and consequence of,
198–99
mobility and, 2–3, 50
three competing concepts of, 56
views on, 84
(see also global inequity and well-being; inefficient
inequalities; inequity within countries; specific areas of
inequality)

inequality traps, 2–3, 20–23, 28, 129, 228
between-group differences, 43
crime/violence-related, 49–50, 161–62
Palanpur example, 26–27
for women, within countries, 51–54
inequity within countries, 4–6, 23, 28–29, 129
economic inequalities, 28, 36–43
in education, 34–36
examples in various countries, 45–46
group differences and, 43–48
in health, 29–34
inequalities of power, 48–51, 229. (see also agency; power and
influence)
inequality traps for women, 51–54
intergenerational transmission of inequality, 28, 46–48
regional disparities/inequalities, 204–5
infrastructure
access to, 6, 10–11, 169, 171–74, 175
accountability and, 174–75
corruption and, 14, 174, 175
equitable provision of, 14, 168–75
privatization, 14, 170–71
service affordability, 171–74
strengthening governance, voice, accountability of, 174–75
inheritance and inheritance laws, gender inequalities and, 52,
162–63, 165
institutional quality, 124–25
power distribution and, 107–9, 129, 228
institutions and institutional development, 8–9, 107–9, 130,
227–28
colonial origins of contemporary institutions, 9, 109–13
contemporary evidence/perspective, 113–18
democratic governance institutions, 70–71
historical evidence/perspective, 74–75, 109–13
inequalities of power and, 48–51, 109–18, 129, 228
inequitable/exclusionary, 2, 74
transitions to more equitable, 118–24
insurance markets, 91–93, 130
intellectual property rights protection, 214–16
intergenerational transmission of inequality, 5–6, 28, 46–48, 73
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD),
membership and voting shares, 66–67
International Chirstelijk Steunfonds Africa, learning experiments,
139
International Conference on Financing for Development, 218–19
International Crop Research Institute in the Semi-Arid Tropics
(ICRISAT), 92, 99
International Development Association, 219
International Financing Facility (IFF), 221
international inequity. See global inequity and well-being
International Labour Office (ILO), 187, 190
Covenant 169 on indigenous peoples, 222
international law, 79
global markets and, 17
human rights, 79–80
intellectual property rights protection, 214–16
International Monetary Fund, 223
ICOR estimates, 98

Index

International Organization for Migration, 210
International Social Survey Program, 83
Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research,
83
investment and investment opportunity, 7–8, 227–28
inequalities and, 101–4
microcredit, 102
underinvestment, 96–101
(see also markets; specific markets)
Iraq, reconstruction aid, 219
Ireland
educational attainment/achievement, 61
labor market reforms, 191
voice rank, 68
Islamic law, justice and equity in, 79
Israel
hyperinflation, 202
voice rank, 68
Italy
banking segmentation, 185
means-tested pensions, 154

Jamaica
child development study, 11
value-added tax exemptions, 177
Japan
educational attainment/achievement, 61
life expectancy, 56
Jewish law, justice and equity in, 79
Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS, 69
Jordan
infant mortality, 29
stunting in children, 29
Jubilee 2000 campaign, 222
justice and justice systems
access to, 10–11, 130–31, 158–60
building equitable systems, 13, 130–31, 156–62
combating discriminatory norms and practices, 158
combating elite capture and discrimination, 156–58, 175
compatibility of state and customary systems, 158–59
enhancing judicial independence and accountability,
156–58
equity and legal institutions, 78–81
improved crime policies, 161–62
improved personal safety policies, 161–62
legal institution establishment, 159–60
to level the playing field, 175
theories of, 76–78

Kazakhstan, stunting in children, 29
Kecamatan Development Project (KDP), 50, 71
Kenya
land reform, 163
learning experiments, 139
trade credit, 97
Kyoto Protocol, 217

315

labor markets, 15, 16, 21–22, 131, 202
achieving equity and efficiency in, 185–94
addressing links with unequal power, 187–88
improved design of, 188–90
interaction between product markets and, 1997
international labor mobility, 208–10
reasons to intervene, 186–87
reforming poor institutions, 191–93
worker organizations/trade unions, 189–90
lagging regions, 204–5
land
access to, 10–11, 13, 162–68, 175
formal land titling, 165–66
sharecropping, 93
squatters’ rights, 164–65
transferability, 166
women’s inheritance rights, 52, 162–63, 165
land distribution, 162–63
cost-effective, 167–68
land markets, 8, 21–22, 93–94, 166–67
land reform, 13, 175
experience with, 163–64
Laos People’s Democratic Republic, head of household education, 35
Latin America and the Caribbean
billionaire wealth, 38
colonization example, 9, 111–12
crises behavior and costs, s201
education trends, 68
financial liberalization, 183
income distribution dynamics, 46
income inequality and subjective well-being, 82–83, 84
inequality trends, 45–46
infant mortality, 6
infrastructure investments, 170
land reform, 163
legal approach to equity, 79
means-tested pensions, 154
means tests, 151
overall inequality levels, 65
product and labor market interaction, 197
programs for nonworking young, 152
schooling years, 60–61
trade liberalization, 194
(see also specific countries)
legal institutions
equity and, 78–81
establishment, 159–60
leveling the economic and political playing field, 3, 4, 9–17, 23, 131
justice and justice systems and, 175
pathologies making uneven playing field, 178–79
role of public action, 10–11, 228. (see also specific focal points,
e.g., human capacities, markets, etc.)
life chances, 1–2, 19, 55

macroeconomy, 14–17
accountability structures and, 201–3
macroeconomic policies, 131

316

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

macroeconomy (continued)
macroeconomic stability/instability, 15–17, 198–203
policy design considerations, 201–3
Madagascar
health care, 144
spatial differences, 42
Malaysia
financial markets, 14
inequality trends, 45
obstetric care, 144
productivity gaps in agriculture, 99
wealth inequality, 37
Mali
head of household education, 35
inequality contrasted to United States, 56
infant mortality, 29
voice rank, 68
marginal products, 97–98
markets, 7–8, 14–17, 226
access to, 11, 178–79
barriers to, 178, 179, 202-3
fairness in, 11
imperfect markets and market failures, 7–8, 17, 21–22, 74, 89,
101–2, 130
inequality traps and market failures, 21
making global markets work more equitably, 207–17, 227
possibilities for change, 178–79
relating to equity, 178–79
(see also specific markets, e.g., credit markets, financial markets,
etc.)
marriage and kinship systems, gender inequalities and, 52
Mauritius
development experiences, 116–18, 119, 125
economic inequality, 38
pensions, 154
medicine markets, drug access example, 224–25
Mexico
banking system evolution, 109
bank privatization, 182
capital markets, 8
crises, 200
educational attainment/achievement, 61
financial markets, 14
financial system reform, 179
inequality trends, 46
legal approach to equity, 79
Oportuniades (PROGRESA) program, 12, 137–38, 143, 153
physician availability, 144
Procampo, 197
property rights reforms, 164
safety nets and, 197-98
social security spending, 145–46
trade liberalization, 15, 195
trade unions, 189
Middle East
education trends, 36
inequality trends, 46
life expectancy, 56

schooling years, 60–61
(see also specific countries)
Millennium Declaration, 131
Millennium Development Goals, 17, 66
Millennium Summit+5, 222
mobility
anomie and, 50
facilitating, 205
inequalities and, 2–3
international labor mobility, 208–10
women, 52
Mongolia, product market reforms, 195-96
Monterrey Consensus, 131
Morocco
academic achievement, 62
education, 11
immunization, 31
school enrollment problems, 139
spatial differences, 42
student achievement, 139
trade liberalization, 194
Mozambique
infant mortality, 29
product markets and trade reform, 194–95, 198
spatial differences, 42
Multi-Fiber Agreement phaseout, 211

NAFTA. See North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA)
Namibia
health insurance, 145
pensions, 154
Nash equilibrium, equity and fairness and, 81
National Institute of Public Finance and Policy, credit market
report, 90
natural resources, rectifying inequities in use of, 216–17
Nepal, inequality trends, 45
the Netherlands, labor market reforms, 191
New Zealand
labor market reforms, 191
means-tested pensions, 154
Niger
infant mortality, 29
infrastructure, 173
legal approach to equity, 79
Nigeria, poverty trends, 66
North America
basic education, 140
colonization example, 9, 112–13
human rights regimes, 79
(see also Canada; Mexico; United States)
North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), 195
safety nets and, 197
Norway, educational attainment/achievement, 61

official development assistance, 219–20
opportunity, equal. See equal opportunity

Index

opportunity disparities/inequalities, 1, 2–3, 18–19, 73–74, 131
(see also specific aspects and scope, e.g., global inequity and
well-being, inequity within countries, etc.)
outcomes, significance and importance of, 3

Pakistan
credit market, 89–90
financial markets, 14
inequality trends, 45
infrastructure, 169
poverty trends, 66
productivity gaps in agriculture, 99
stunting in children, 29
voice rank, 68
Palanpur, India, inequality traps example, 26–27
Paraguay, between-group differences in inequality, 41
pensions
programs for nonworking elderly, 148–49, 153–54
South Africa, 104
personal safety, protection, 131, 161–62
Peru
gender discrimination, 158
labor shares and crises, 200
teacher absenteeism, 35
pharmaceutical patents, intellectual property rights issue,
214–16
the Philippines
education, 11
opportunities for women, 54
student achievement, 139
wealth inequality, 38
philosophical approaches to equity, 76–78
Plato, 76
Poland
effects of regulation and disclosure in, 184–85
trade unions, 189
voice rank, 68
policy design, 3–4, 10, 131
costs of policies, 130
growth and equity policy dichotomy, 10
oligarchic dominance and, 130
two types of pathologies in, 129–30
(see also leveling the economic and political playing field)
policy implementation, 10
policy tradeoffs, 19–20, 130, 204–5
short-term versus long-term, 3–4, 22–23
political inequality, 2–3, 20, 74–75, 109–18
between groups, 21
political power
contemporary evidence regarding development and, 113–18
government intervention in labor markets and, 187–88
institutional quality and distribution of, 107–9, 129
poor people
“negative terms of recognition,” 49–50
social programs for working poor, 150–52
Portugal, educational attainment/achievement, 61
poverty, 227–28

317

group-based inequalities and, 49–51. (see also agency; poor
people)
poverty reduction, 3, 23, 226–27
income inequality and, 84–88
Indonesian example, 126–27
redistributive policies and, 9–10, 23, 74
power and influence
global inequalities, 55–56, 66–68
institutional quality and distribution of, 107–9, 129
(see also agency; political power)
predetermined characteristics/circumstances of human beings, 19,
28, 55, 131, 205
product markets, 15, 16, 131
design of reform, 198, 202-03
domestic product markets and equity, 194–97
drug access example, 224–25
elite influence/capture, 193-94
interaction between labor markets and, 196–97
safety nets, 197-98
trade reform and, 193–98
Program for the Development of Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian
Peoples, 51
property rights
access to finance and weak rights, 180
gender inequalities and, 52
protection and security, 100, 131, 175, 214–16
prosperity. See complementaries between equity and prosperity
protection of rights, 13, 17
(see also specific rights)

Quichua people, 5, 50–51

reforms, equity-enhancing, 70–71, 228
religion and religious faiths/beliefs, 21
equity and fairness concerns, 7, 76
relocation assistance, 205
Repeated Public Good Game with Punishment, 81
Reports on the Observance of Standards and Codes (ROSC),
216
Republic of Korea
chaebols, 182
development experiences, 114–15, 119, 125
educational attainment/achievement, 61
financial markets, 14
gender equity, 54
inequality trends, 45
labor market reforms, 192
trade unions, 189
Republic of Yemen
stunting in children, 29
voice rank, 68
resource allocation/distribution
arguments and principles of, 77–78
rectifying natural resource use inequities, 216–17
resource flows, 11
Roosevelt, Franklin D., 74

318

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

ROSC. See Reports on the Observance of Standards and Codes
(ROSC)
Russian Federation
bank privatization, 182
crisis of 1990s, 201
financial markets, 14
voice rank, 68

safety nets
product markets and, 197-98
risk management and, 12
Scandinavia
labor markets, 188
tax design, 176
(see also specific countries)
schooling. See education and educational attainment; specific
countries and regions
secular philosophical traditions, equity and, 76
Senegal
growth incidence curve and, 85–86
infrastructure, 173
means-tested pensions, 154
Serbian Poverty Reduction Strategy, disability report, 32
Singapore
inequality trends, 45
wealth inequality, 37
Slovak Republic, labor market reforms, 191
Smith, Adam, 178
social distinctions, distribution of wealth and, 2–3
social inequalities, damaging health, 32
social justice, 76–78
social networks, 21
social protection systems/risk management, 12, 148–49
contributory schemes, 149
general tax funded transfers, 149
program choice variance by country, 149–50
programs for nonworking elderly, 153–54
programs for nonworking youth, 152–53
programs for special vulnerable groups, 154–55
programs for working poor, 150–52
social assistance programs, 149–55
Somalia, health care, 144
South Africa
billionaire wealth, 38
customary systems, 159
development experiences, 1
health insurance, 145
HIV/AIDS, 69
infant and child mortality, 142
land access, 13
land reform, 163
means-tested pensions, 154
pensions, 104, 148–49
voice rank, 68
women and household assets, 53
worker organizations/trade unions, 189, 190

South America
human rights regimes, 79
(see also specific countries)
South Asia
education trends, 35–36
inequality trends, 45, 68
life expectancy, 56, 69
poverty trends, 66
schooling years, 60–61
(see also specific countries)
Soviet Union (former), inequality trends, 46
Spain
equity and development, 105–6
Latin America colonization, 9, 111–12
trade unions, 189
Sri Lanka
inequality trends, 45
microfinance, 184
obstetric care, 144
Sudan, land rental markets, 167
Sumatra, opportunities for women, 54
“Summary Report on Informal Credit Markets in India,” 90
sustainable development, 3, 74–75
Sweden
institutional transitions, 119, 120–22
intergenerational mobility, 47
intergenerational transmission of inequality, 47

Taiwan, China
development experiences, 114–15
inequality trends, 45
Tanzania
infrastructure, 169
trade credit, 97
taxes and tax policies, 12–13, 130, 176–77
tenure, land, 13, 164–67
Thailand
health education, 143
health insurance, 12, 146–47
insurance, 92
land titling, 165
physician availability, 144
worker organizations/trade unions, 190
Third International Mathematics and Science Study (TIMSS),
139
13th General Review of IMF Quotas, 223
TIMSS. See Third International Mathematics and Science Study
(TIMSS)
trade liberalization, 15, 194, 210–14
capture by vested interests and, 197–98
trade reform
codes of conduct in, 213–14
fair and ethical trade, 213–14, 222
product markets and, 193–98
Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS),
215–16

Index

319

Trinidad and Tobago
land security, 165
stunting in children, 29
TRIPS. See Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights
(TRIPS)
Tunisia
growth incidence curve and, 85–86
health care, 144
Turkey
educational attainment/achievement, 61
school enrollment problems, 139

Kyoto Protocol and, 217
labor markets, 188
migrant labor, 95
reconstruction aid, 219
safety nets, 197
sharecropping, 93
voice rank, 68
Uruguay
disabled children education grants, 138
health insurance, 145
utilitarianism, 76–77

Uganda
basic education, 140
health care user fees, 146
health education, 143
ICOR estimates, 98
teacher absenteeism, 35
Ultimatum Game, 80–81
Ultimatum Game with Multiple Proposers, 81
U.N. Charter, 79
underachievement, perpetuating, 2
underinvestment
agriculture, 98–100
human capital, 100–101
industry and trade, 96–98
UN/ECE Convention on Access to Information, Public
Participation in Decision-making and Access to Justice in
Environmental Matters (Aarhus Convention), 217
unequal power, perpetuation of inequality and, 8–9, 229
United Kingdom
Britain’s institutional transitions, 119–20, 125
Ethical Trading Initiative, 213
income inequality, 64
inequality trends, 45
intergenerational mobility/elasticity, 47, 48
intergenerational transmission of inequality, 47
women and household assets, 53
United Nations
Commission for Africa, 218
Kyoto Protocol, 216
membership, 66
U.N. Charter, 79
U.N. Convention on the Rights of All Migrant Workers and
Their Families, 210
United States
affirmative action programs, 158
banking system evolution, 109
educational attainment/achievement, 61
Fair Labor Association, 213
health insurance, 145
income inequality, 64
income inequality and subjective well-being, 82
inequality contrasted to Mali, 56
inequality trends, 45
intergenerational mobility/elasticity, 6, 47–48
intergenerational transmission of inequality, 47

values and norms
anomie and, 50
World Value Survey, 83–84
Vietnam
health insurance, 12, 145, 147
inequality trends, 45
infrastructure, 169
land distribution, 166
land titling program, 165
Poverty Reduction Strategy, 165
women’s land rights, 165
violence. See crime/violence
voice and accountability, 2, 22–23, 67–68, 178, 227, 228
enhancing judicial independence and accountability, 156–58
macroeconomic policies and accountability structures, 201–3
political accountability, 124, 130
strengthening accountability in education, 140–41
voluntary contributions/private assistance, 221
vulnerable groups
social programs for, 154–55
(see also specific groups, e.g., caste systems, disability and
disabled persons, etc.)

wealth. See affluence and wealth
welfare
distributive justice and, 77
intergenerational transmission of inequality, 46–48
well-being. See equity and fairness concerns; global inequity and
well-being
WHO. See World Health Organization (WHO)
women
benefits from infrastructure investments, 169
crime/violence against, 162
discrimination/missing women and girls, 223
inequality traps, 51–54
land/inheritance rights, 52, 162–63, 165
status and inequality traps, 20–21
World Development Report 1990, 23, 226–27
World Development Report 2000, 23
World Development Report 2004, 12
World Development Report 2006, 2, 17
World Development Reports, various, 227
World Health Organization (WHO), violence data, 54
World Migration Organization, 210

320

WORLD DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2006

World Trade Organization (WTO)
fairness of decision-making process, 211–13
GATS Mode IV, 210
membership and representation, 66–67
migration issues, 210
World Value Survey, 83–84
WTO. See World Trade Organization (WTO)

youth, social programs for nonworking youth, 152–53

Zambia
infrastructure, 169
trade credit, 97
Zimbabwe
health insurance, 145
land reform, 163
trade credit, 97

ECO-AUDIT

Environmental Benefits Statement
The World Bank is committed to preserving endangered forests and natural resources. We printed the World
Development Report 2006 on 15 percent post-consumer recycled paper,
processed chlorine free. The World
Bank has formally agreed to follow
the recommended standards for
paper usage set by Green Press Initiative—a nonprofit program supporting publishers in using fiber that
is not sourced from endangered
forests. For more information, visit
www.greenpressinitiative.org.

Saved:
• 148 trees
• 6,913 pounds of
solid waste
• 62,699 gallons of
water
• 13,579 pounds of
net greenhouse
gases
• 25,215 kw hours
of electricity

I

nequalities in incomes, in health, and in educational outcomes have long been a stark fact of life
in many developing countries. When such inequalities in outcomes arise from unequal opportunities, there are both intrinsic and instrumental grounds for concern. Because inequalities in
opportunity are often accompanied by profound differences in influence, power, and social status—
whether at the level of individuals or groups—they have a tendency to persist. And because it leads
to an inefficient use of resources and to less effective institutions, inequity is inimical to long-term
development. It follows that there is a legitimate role for public action in the promotion of fairness
and in the pursuit of equity, provided such action is cognizant of the primacy of individual freedoms,
and of the role of markets in allocating resources.

World Development Report 2006 presents evidence on the inequality of opportunity, within and across
countries, and illustrates the mechanisms through which it impairs development. The Report advocates
taking explicit account of equity in determining development priorities: public action should aim to
expand the opportunities of those who, in the absence of policy interventions, have the least resources,
voice, and capabilities. Domestically, it makes the case for investing in people, expanding access to justice, land, and infrastructure, and promoting fairness in markets. Internationally, the report considers
the functioning of global markets and the rules that govern them, as well as the complementary provision of aid to help poor countries and poor people build greater endowments. Drawing on the World
Bank’s 60 years of development experience, the World Development Report 2006 is essential reading
for understanding how greater equity can reduce poverty, enhance economic growth, advance development, and deliver increased opportunities to the poorest groups in our societies.

ISBN 0-8213-6249-6

