Part Two
shaping economic geography

In the past generation, there has been a slow revolution in economic thought, brought
about by the recognition of imperfectly competitive markets, due mainly to increasing
returns to scale, spillovers, and circular causation. A new way of thinking has transformed
the classical analysis of industrial organization, economic growth, and international
trade, and has delivered what were at first controversial, but now widely accepted,
implications for the progress of developing countries. Part two of the Report illustrates
the interplay between scale economies, factor mobility, and transport costs to explain
the formidable forces that shape the spatial transformation described in part one.
Chapters 4, 5, and 6 are the stops in a tour of the “engine room,” each spotlighting a
different facet of the interactions among agglomeration, migration, and specialization.

WDR09_09_Part02.indd 125

10/9/08 11:26:00 AM

CHAPTER 4

Scale Economies
and Agglomeration

T

he most celebrated example in economics is perhaps the simplest.
On the fi rst page of The Wealth of
Nations, published in 1776, Adam Smith
wrote of the benefits of dividing labor to
make pins. A single unskilled worker without the benefit of machines might make
fewer than 20 pins in a day. But in a pin
factory that Smith visited, 10 workers, who
divided among themselves the 18 operations
involved in making a pin, were producing 48,000 pins a day. Rather than struggling to produce just a few pins a day, each
worker was turning out almost 5,000. Later
in Smith’s classic work are two important
qualifiers: the gains from dividing labor are
limited by market size, and not all activities
exhibit increasing returns to scale.
The ability to transport products widens the market, so cities are located near
the most natural and efficient of transport
systems—waterways. Places blessed with
this natural infrastructure often do well,
while other places must bide their time. As
Smith wrote,
There are in Africa none of those great inlets,
such as the Baltic and Adriatic seas in Europe,
the Mediterranean and Euxine seas in both
Europe and Asia, and the gulphs of Arabia,
Persia, India, Bengal, and Siam in Asia, to
carry maritime commerce into the interior
parts of that great continent: and the great
rivers of Africa are at too great a distance
from one another to give occasion to any
considerable inland navigation.1

126

WDR09_10_Ch04.indd 126

Besides, not all activities exhibit scale
economies, and some do not need large
markets to thrive. Subsistence farming is

one such occupation, fruitfully carried out
in villages. But such trades as manufacturing and commerce can be carried out only
in bigger settlements, because they require
access to both workers and customers.
Caveats notwithstanding, the benefits of
producing large quantities in a single plant
or place have increased as transport costs
have fallen in the two centuries since Smith
visited the pin factory. Those who doubt the
awesome potential of scale economies and
how access to world markets helps exploit
them should visit Dongguan, a city halfway between Guangzhou and Shenzhen in
Southeast China. Until the 1980s it was a
collection of sleepy villages in China’s Pearl
River delta. Since then it has rushed headlong into the world of increasing returns
(see box 4.1). Every year, millions of people in the developing world enter this new
realm and the implications, for them and
for policy makers, are nothing short of
revolutionary.
This chapter summarizes the experience
of entrepreneurs over the last two centuries
in exploiting economies of scale in production. It focuses on “agglomeration economies,” whose exploitation requires locating
in areas densely populated by other producers. It next provides a brief synopsis of about
two decades of work by economists seeking
to understand these scale economies—
work that has diminished the disconnect
between research and the real world, and
that yields valuable policy insights. It then
assesses whether policy makers in the developing world have been learning from this
experience and analysis.

10/8/08 2:11:46 PM

127

Scale Economies and Agglomeration

B OX 4.1

Scale economies in an almost unreal world: the story of Dongguan, China

In 1978 what today is the city of Dongguan in China’s Guangdong province
was but a collection of villages and small
towns spread over 2,500 square kilometers on the Pearl River, midway between
Guangzhou to the north and Shenzhen
and Hong Kong, China, to the south. The
area’s population of 400,000 relied on
fishing and farming and—though not
the poorest in China—was not especially
prosperous.
Today Dongguan is home to about 7
million people. More than 5 million of its
residents are migrants who work in the
thousands of factories that dot the city,
churning out a wide range of products
in such huge volumes that recent media
accounts have assigned Dongguan the
label of “factory of the world.” Dongguan’s economy has grown at more than
20 percent annually since 1980, and in
2004 its gross domestic product (GDP)
was about $14 billion—greater than
Iceland’s. If one includes only registered
urban residents (as in official statistics),
Dongguan’s GDP per capita of $9,000 in
2004 made it the wealthiest city in China.
Even if the city’s floating population of
migrant workers is included, its GDP per
capita in 2004 was still more than $2,000.

Dongguan’s development since the
1970s, and particularly in the last decade,
exemplifies (perhaps in exaggerated
fashion) the economic forces shaping
East Asia’s middle-income economies
(see the table below).
Location and favorable factor prices
undoubtedly spurred Dongguan’s early
growth. For the first decade and a half
after China’s reforms began, small and
medium enterprises from both Hong
Kong, China, and Taiwan, China, were
attracted to Dongguan by plentiful supply of land and low-cost labor, and by its
proximity to both Guangzhou and Hong
Kong, China. Despite these factors, Dongguan’s rapid growth in the 1990s can
best be understood through economies
of scale, whether in the production of
intermediate goods or differentiated
products, and agglomeration effects,
within and across industries. Combined
with reductions in transport costs and
improvements in logistics, technological
progress demonstrates that such effects
have emerged as important characteristics of global production.
The internal scale economies are obvious. In 2005 a single plant in Dongguan
manufactured more than 30 percent of

the magnetic recording heads used in
hard disk drives worldwide. Another produced 60 percent of the electronic learning devices sold in the U.S. market. A
third produced nearly 30 million mobile
phones, more than enough to provide
a mobile phone for every man, woman,
and child in Peru or República Bolivariana de Venezuela.
Agglomeration or external scale economies are equally visible. The knowledge spillovers and lower logistics costs
from locating close to input providers
and export traders have produced globally important industry clusters for knitted woolens, footwear, furniture, and
toys. But the cluster that has dominated
the industrial landscape of Dongguan
since the mid-1990s is telecommunications, electronics, and computer components. Of the parts and components
used in manufacturing and processing
personal computers, 95 percent can be
sourced in Dongguan, and for several
products, Dongguan’s factories account
for more than 40 percent of global production.
Contributed by Shubham Chaudhuri.
Source: Gill and Kharas 2007.

Dongguan in numbers
Average annual GDP growth, 1980–2005 (%)
Population: registered residents (millions)
GDP per registered resident (US$)
Exports (US$, billions)
Government revenues (US$, billions)
Electricity consumption (kWh, billions)

22.0
1.6

GDP (US$, billions)
Population: total, estimated (millions)

14.2
7.0

8,999

GDP per capita (US$)

2,070

35.2

Imports (billion US$)

29.3

1.0
35.2

Government expenditures (US$, billions)

1.2

Water consumption (ft3, billions)

1.5

Environmental impact indicators
Sulfur dioxide emissions (tons, thousands)

Industrial waste water (tons, millions)

225

Sulfur dioxide emissions meeting standards (%)

199.4
92.9

Industrial water discharge meeting standards (%)

90.1

Industrial solid wastes (tons, thousands)

28.6

Industrial solid wastes meeting standards (%)

86.5

Global market share in 2002 of computer and electronics components manufactured in Dongguan (%)
Magnetic heads and computer cases

40

Scanners and mini-motors

20

Copper-clad boards and disk drives

30

Keyboards

16

AC capacitators and fly-back transformers

25

Motherboards

15

Source: Dongguan Government 2005.

WDR09_10_Ch04.indd 127

10/8/08 2:11:48 PM

128

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

The main findings:

•

•

Table 4.1

Developing economies are entering a
new realm of agglomeration. A century
of experience indicates that as countries
develop from agricultural to industrial to
service-oriented production, entrepreneurs
and workers leave behind not just their villages and their agrarian occupations, but
also a world in which scale does not matter much. More and more of them enter
not just larger and denser settlements, but
also a world in which scale matters—where
production and distribution enjoy scale
economies, especially those associated with
places. Proximity matters more, not just for
access to markets for goods and services,
but also for access to ideas.
A portfolio of places is needed for economic growth. Research over the last
generation indicates that different forms
of human settlement facilitate agglomeration economies for different forms of
production. A somewhat-oversimplified
(but not altogether incorrect) generalization would be that market towns facili-

•

tate scale economies in marketing and
distributing agricultural produce, medium-size cities provide localization economies for manufacturing industries, and
the largest cities provide diverse facilities
and foster innovation in business, government, and education services.
Policy makers have often misjudged the
potency of market forces. Many policy
makers perceive cities as constructs of
the state—to be managed and manipulated to serve some social objective. In
reality, cities and towns, just like firms
and farms, are creatures of the market.
Just as firms and farms deliver final and
intermediate goods and services, towns
and cities deliver agglomeration economies to producers and workers. So city
administrators are better advised to
learn what their city does, and to help it
do this well, rather than try to abruptly
change the course of their city’s destiny. Planners and policy makers should
see their role as prudent managers of a
portfolio of places, to get the most from
agglomeration economies.

A dozen economies of scale

Type of economy of scale

Example
1. Pecuniary

Internal

2. Static technological

Technological

Static
Localization

Dynamic

External or
agglomeration
Static
Urbanization

Dynamic

Being able to purchase intermediate inputs at volume discounts
Falling average costs because of fixed costs of operating a plant

3. Dynamic technological

Learning to operate a plant more efficiently over time

4. “Shopping”

Shoppers are attracted to places where there are many sellers

5. “Adam Smith”
specialization

Outsourcing allows both the upstream input suppliers and downstream
firms to profit from productivity gains because of specialization

6. “Marshall” labor pooling

Workers with industry-specific skills are attracted to a location where
there is a greater concentration.a

7. “Marshall-Arrow-Romer”
learning by doing

Reductions in costs that arise from repeated and continuous production
activity over time and which spill over between firms in the same place

8. “Jane Jacobs” innovation

The more that different things are done locally, the more opportunity there
is for observing and adapting ideas from others

9. “Marshall” labor pooling

Workers in an industry bring innovations to firms in other industries; similar
to no. 6 above, but the benefit arises from the diversity of industries in one
location.

10. “Adam Smith” division
of labor

Similar to no. 5 above, the main difference being that the division of labor
is made possible by the existence of many different buying industries in the
same place

11. “Romer” endogenous
growth

The larger the market, the higher the profit; the more attractive the location
to firms, the more jobs there are; the more labor pools there, the larger the
market—and so on

12. “Pure” agglomeration

Spreading fixed costs of infrastructure over more taxpayers; diseconomies
arise from congestion and pollution

Source: Adapted from Kilkenny 2006.
a. For a formalization, see Krugman 1991a.

WDR09_10_Ch04.indd 128

10/8/08 2:11:48 PM

129

Scale Economies and Agglomeration

This chapter discusses, in general terms,
the implications of experience and analysis for reshaping urbanization strategies in
the developing world. Chapter 7 continues
this task of reframing the debate over urban
strategies.

A guide to scale economies
The benefits of increasing scale can be
either internal or external to an individual
firm or farm. External economies are synonymous with “agglomeration economies,”
which include the benefits of localization
(being near other producers of the same
commodity or service) and urbanization
(being close to producers of a wide range
of commodities and services). Consumption externalities also are associated with
agglomeration, but these are not yet well
studied in the literature.2 So, this chapter
deals with production-related scale economies (see table 4.1).3

•

•

•

Internal economies arise from the larger
size of a plant to better exploit fixed costs
(numbers 1 through 3 in table 4.1). A
larger steel mill can get volume discounts
from suppliers—implying fixed costs of
transport and trade—and reap the benefits of dividing labor within the firm.
Localization economies arise from
a larger number of fi rms in the same
industry and the same place (numbers 4
through 7 in table 4.1). Spatial proximity
helps because immediate access to competitors in the same sector allow fi rms
to stay abreast of market information
in negotiating with customers and suppliers.4 Clustered firms can also share a
larger and more dependable pool of specialized labor.
Urbanization economies arise from a
larger number of different industries in
the same place (numbers 8 through 11
in table 4.1). A management consulting
company can benefit from locating near
business schools, fi nancial service providers, and manufacturers.

Agglomeration economies depend not
just on size (a big city or industry) but also
on urban interactions. They are traditionally classified as localization economies
arising from within-industry economic

WDR09_10_Ch04.indd 129

B OX 4 . 2

Sharing, matching, and learning

Three reasons explain why firms in a
particular industry often locate close
to each other. Geographic concentration helps in—
• Sharing. Broadening the market
for input suppliers, allowing them
to exploit internal economies of
scale in production (average costs
decline as the scale of production
rises). This sharing of inputs also
permits suppliers to provide highly
specialized goods and services tailored to the needs of their buyers.
The result is higher profits for all,
accompanied by easier access to a
broader range of inputs.
• Matching. Expanding the availability of the range of skills required
by employers to facilitate better
matching to their distinctive needs.
At the same time, workers find it
less risky to be in locations with
many possible employers.
• Learning. Accelerating spillovers of
knowledge and allowing workers
and entrepreneurs to learn from
each other.

The ability to go beyond industryspecific sharing, matching, and
learning (localization economies)
to citywide processes (urbanization
economies) requires additional mechanisms. These include the effects of
cumulative causation and the interpenetration of production and trade
across industries. They also include
gains from the cross-fertilization of
ideas. The concentration of workers
and suppliers leads to a concentration of consumer demands.
If economies of scale are large
and unexhausted, and if firms can
compete not only on price but also
through product differentiation,
strong centripetal forces come into
play. In addition, by formally introducing distance (the cost of shipping
inputs and outputs), the framework
used in this Report provides useful
insights into the centrifugal forces
that explain spatial dispersion in a
country.
Sources: Gill and Kharas 2007, based on
Duranton and Puga 2004.

interactions, and as urbanization economies, arising from between-industry interactions.5 The reasons for producers to gain
from proximity to others depend on the
sharing of capital inputs, information, and
labor. They also depend on improving the
matches between production requirements
and types of land, labor, and intermediate
inputs—and learning about new techniques
and products (see box 4.2).

Internal scale economies are higher in
heavier industries
Internal increasing returns to scale are
found in manufacturing and services, based
on various sources of data. The internal
scale economies range from negligible or
low among light industries, to high among
heavy and high-technology industries (see
table 4.2). Based on engineering estimates,
a summary of sector-specific studies that
examines the minimum efficiency scale of
production and cost-saving finds significant
increasing returns in motor vehicles, other

10/8/08 2:11:48 PM

130

Table 4.2

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Internal scale economies are low in light industries and high in heavy industries

Findings

Data source

Constant returns to scale: apparel, leather,
footwear, textiles, wood products

Based on trade data (Antweiler and
Trefler 2002)

High increasing returns to scale: machinery,
pharmaceuticals, instruments, iron and steel,
petroleum and coal products
Constant returns or low increasing returns to
scale: leather goods, footwear and clothing,
timber and wood, textiles
High increasing returns to scale: Motor vehicles,
other means of transportation, chemicals,
engineering, printing and publishing
Low increasing returns to scale: footwear,
apparel, food products, leather
High increasing returns to scale: tobacco,
pharmaceuticals, office and computing
machinery, railroad equipment
Low increasing returns to scale: apparel, leather
products, textiles
High increasing returns to scale: electric, gas,
and sanitary services, motor vehicles and
equipment, chemicals, tobacco
Low increasing returns to scale: textiles, milk
products, lumber mills, fish oil and meal products
High increasing returns to scale: basic metal,
transport equipment, cement products, fixtures,
beverages
Low increasing returns to scale: clothing,
knitting, leather, textiles
High increasing returns to scale: petroleum,
basic and fabricated metal, transport equipment

Low increasing returns to scale: apparel, wood
products
High increasing returns to scale: other
chemicals, food products, printing and publishing

Based on engineering estimates to
examine cost gradients and changes in
minimum efficiency scale (Junius 1997,
cited from Prateen 1988 and Emerson and
others 1988)

Based on markups in manufacturing
industries for 14 OECD countries (Junius
1997, cited from Oliveira and others 1996)

Based on markups of prices over marginal
costs for two-digit sectors in the United
States covering 1953–84 (24 sectors)
(Roeger 1995)

Based on production function estimates
for 1963 Census of Manufacturing
Establishments in Norway (27 industries)
(Griliches and Ringstad 1971)

Based on cost and profit data in (167
industries) four-digit SIC manufacturing
industries for 1970 in Canada (Baldwin
and Gorecki 1986) and labor productivity
and output estimates for 90 four-digit
industries in Canada between 1965 and
1970 (Gupta 1983)
Based on estimates of firm-level
production function estimates for 6,665
plants in Chile during 1979–86 (Levinsohn
and Petrin 1999)

Source: WDR 2009 team.
Note: OECD = Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development; SIC = Standard Industrial
Classification.

transport equipment, chemicals, machinery,
engineering, and paper and printing. In the
three-digit product category, the highest
returns to scale are in books, bricks, dyes,
and aircraft.6 By contrast, internal scale
economies are negligible in rubber and plastics, leather and leather goods, footwear and
clothing, and textiles.7
Based on cost and value added estimates,
different sources point to similar findings.
A sample of 5,000 manufacturing fi rms
in Norway shows evidence of scale economies at the individual industry level.8 For
Canadian industries at the four-digit level,
returns to scale average 10 percent for 107

WDR09_10_Ch04.indd 130

manufacturing sectors, with clothing, knitting, leather, and textiles at the lower end of
the spectrum.9 Increasing output cuts costs
in U.S. manufacturing, in the industries
of middle-income countries (Chile), and
in the European car, truck, and consumer
durables industries.10,11
Based on trade data, a third of all goodsproducing industries have increasing
returns to scale.12,13 Manufacturing industries with the highest plant-level economies
and industry-level externalities are petroleum and coal products, petroleum refi ning, pharmaceuticals, machinery, and iron
and steel. Industries with constant returns
include footwear, leather, textiles, apparel,
and furniture.
Markups are another source of information. Because increasing returns to scale
confer market power on firms, markups of
price over marginal cost can be a proxy for
plant-level scale economies. Studies find a
range of markups for U.S. manufacturing,
from 15 percent in apparel to more than 200
percent in the electric, gas, and sanitary services. For 36 manufacturing sectors across
19 member countries of the Organisation
for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), the highest markups are in
tobacco, drugs and medicines, and office
and computing machinery—and the lowest
in footwear, apparel, and wood products.14
While manufacturing data dominate
the literature, increasing returns in services
also are evident. The best-studied sector is
electric power generation, where the internal increasing returns to scale are considerable.15 The highest markups are in utilities
and sanitary services.16 Scale economies
also are found in banking and fi nance.17
A study of commercial banks in 75 countries shows that banks with larger loans
and deposits have lower average costs—and
that banks operating in larger financial systems require less proportionate increases in
fi nancial capital and have lower risk management costs.18

Localization economies arise from
input-sharing and competition within
the industry
Localization economies come from geographically concentrated groups of firms,

10/8/08 2:11:48 PM

Scale Economies and Agglomeration

linked by the technology they use, the markets they serve, the products and services
they provide, and the skills they require.
Competitive pressures that force firms in the
same sector to innovate or fail also lead to
productivity growth. Conditions tend to be
competitive when upstream and downstream
firms and associated institutions in a particular industry (say, electronic machinery
or petrochemicals)—including universities
and trade associations—“cluster” together.
Other channels for localization economies
are the less easily measured “MarshallArrow-Romer externalities,”19 which come
mainly from knowledge spillovers.
Proximity to similar fi rms influences
the location decisions of fi rms. Consider
the hosiery industry in the United States.
Shortly after 1900 New York City became
the U.S. center for garment production and
distribution. But after World War II garment production moved south, to North
Carolina. 20 Many knitting and weaving
mills moved to be closer to the supply of
yarn and to take advantage of cheaper
power, labor, and land.
Today, the hosiery industry, localized
in North Carolina, boasts many brands—
among them, Sheer Energy, Silken Mist, Just
My Size, and No Nonsense—all competing
in a $2 billion market. According to the U.S.
Census Bureau, about 150 establishments
producing women’s full-length and kneelength hosiery in the early 2000s, half the
nation’s total, were located in North Carolina. They shipped $973 million worth of
hosiery, about 75 percent of the national
total, and employed 13,497 people, including
11,567 production workers.21 Adding men’s
socks and stockings, more than half of a $6
billion industry is in North Carolina.
One reason textile producers went to
North Carolina was to exploit productivity gains from proximity to upstream yarn
producers. The yarn and pantyhose industries are tightly knit—in relationships
delicately stitched together at each step
of production—but fiercely competitive.
Macfield, a textile giant and a leading producer of yarns for pantyhose, socks, outerwear, upholstery, and industrial products
operates fi ve plants in North Carolina
and employs about a quarter of the yarn

WDR09_10_Ch04.indd 131

131

industry’s labor force. About six of every
10 pairs of sheer hosiery sold in the United
States were knitted with Macfield yarn.22
Together with other large North Carolina
producers (Unifi, Regal, and Spanco), they
make up more than three-quarters of the
industry’s $3.7 billion worth of textured
yarn products. 23 The localization of the
yarn and hosiery industries in North Carolina is a powerful manifestation of intraindustry external economies.

Urbanization economies come
from industrial diversity that
fosters innovation
As cities grow, urbanization economies
become more important.24 Urban diversity
can foster the exchange of ideas and technology to produce greater innovation and
growth.25 Firms in different industries can
share indivisible facilities or public goods,
a wider variety of intermediate input suppliers, a larger pool of narrowly specialized
workers, and risks. The evidence of greater
importance of across-industry knowledge
spillovers can be seen in established cities.
In fairly mature cities, such as Los Angeles, and Philadelphia, competition and city
diversity help employment growth, indicative of urbanization economies of betweensector innovation.26 On New York’s Wall
Street and in the city of London, fi nancial
fi rms, insurance companies, and banking
syndicates benefit from being close to one
another. And co-location stimulates the
growth of other specialist services, such as
legal, software, data processing, advertising,
and management consulting fi rms. These
clustered firms, by providing a thicker
market for highly educated individuals,
benefit from drawing on the same large
pool of human capital. They also gain from
the generation and diffusion of knowledge
amongst one another.
Evidence of urban agglomeration economies comes primarily from developed
countries.27 But there is also evidence of
external economies in developing countries, wherever data are available. A survey
of 12,400 manufacturing firms in 120 cities in China points to the higher productivity of fi rms in more populous cities.28
Agglomeration economies in Indonesian

10/8/08 2:11:48 PM

132

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

B OX 4.3

Agglomeration economies in Indonesia

Much of the rigorous evidence of
agglomeration economies comes
from developed countries. An exception is Indonesia, where recent
research helps to identify the determinants of industrial concentration.
The analysis focuses on four broad
groups—chemicals (including
petroleum, rubber, and plastics);
textiles (including garments, leather,
and footwear); nonmetallic minerals (including glass, ceramics, and
cement); and machinery (including
electrical and nonelectrical machines,
transportation equipment, and
instruments). It sheds light on how
the size and type of scale economies
influence the extent and pattern
of agglomeration in a developing
country.
Localization economies—the benefits of locating near other firms in
the same industry—have been more
important than urbanization economies for manufacturing, and static
agglomeration economies are more
important than dynamic (or learning
related) externalities. The sectorspecific findings of tests for static
externalities show that

• Localization economies are strong
for textiles and chemicals.
• Urbanization economies are strong
for nonmetallic minerals and
machinery, though weak during
some periods.
Activities subject to urbanization
and dynamic economies are poor
candidates for policies that seek to
spread out economic mass within
a country (see chapter 8 for a more
detailed discussion). Such firms prefer
to stay put, since this helps learning,
and they thrive in fairly large and
diverse cities. The agglomeration
economies for textiles and chemicals
(largely static and local) indicate that
policies to deconcentrate production
in these industries might succeed
if accompanied by improvements
in infrastructure and governance in
the areas chosen for relocation. The
agglomeration economies make the
nonmetallic minerals and machinery
(essentially static and urban) likely
to resist relocation to smaller urban
centers.
Source: Kuncoro, forthcoming.

manufacturing between 1980 and 2003 vary
over time; however, in the broadest terms,
these benefits are mainly static rather than
dynamic and somewhat more likely to arise
from localization than from urbanization
(see box 4.3).

A different realm
Countries develop by shifting their economies from traditional subsistence-based
agricultural activities to higher-value manufacturing and services. Along the way, firms
rather than farms become the dominant
production unit. The production of differentiated manufactured goods and services
increases as a share of the economy’s output. Between 1900 and 2000 the share of the
global population in industrial or servicedominant urban localities rose from 15 percent to 47 percent. The global employment
share in agriculture among working-age

WDR09_10_Ch04.indd 132

people fell from just over 55 percent in 1960
to about 33 percent in 2004. Production technology shifts away from constant returns to
increasing returns to scale. And over time,
scale-augmenting technical change boosts
scale economies. Imperfect and monopolistic competition become the dominant forms
of market structure.
The world is more urban, and the concentration of economic mass in the densest
urban centers is greater as well. In 1900 the
number of people in the largest 100 cities
added up to just 4.3 percent of the world’s
population. The same 100 cities now have
7.5 percent of the total, and the largest 100
cities, almost 10.5 percent. Despite ample
open space, almost all recent development
in the United States has been less than 1
kilometer from earlier developments. 29
Even today, only about 2 percent of the
land area of the United States is built up or
paved. Only agglomeration economies can
explain this extreme clustering of firms and
workers in cities.

As producers seek scale economies,
agriculture disperses but
manufacturing clusters
As economies develop, farms spread out to
exploit scale economies in production. In
the United States about 1,500 kilograms of
agricultural products are produced annually to feed each American, whereas the
Chinese make do with about 600 kilograms
per person. In 2005 the average cropland
in the United States was 20.4 hectares per
farmer, in Australia it was 45 hectares, and
in Canada it was 47 hectares. Average farm
size in Brazil is about 19 hectares.30 But
scale economies in agriculture are generally
difficult to obtain in low-income countries.
The cropland per farmer was a fraction of
that in developed countries: 0.16 hectares in
China, 0.30 in Bangladesh and Indonesia,
and 1.20 in Nigeria.31
As economies develop, manufacturing and services become more important,
fi rms cram in closer together to harness
agglomeration economies. In France, the
United Kingdom, and the United States,
75–95 percent of industry is localized
(clustered or concentrated relative to overall economic activity), while less than 15

10/8/08 2:11:49 PM

Scale Economies and Agglomeration

percent is dispersed.32 In the United States
more than a third of aerospace engines are
produced in three cities: Hartford with
about 18 percent of total employment, and
Cincinnati and Phoenix with another 18
percent together.33 Over time the spatial
concentration of industries in U.S. states
has increased.34 Using continuous space
without considering administrative boundaries and based on concentration of plants,
more than half of the United Kingdom’s
122 four-digit industries are localized, and
only 24 percent are dispersed. The rest are
randomly distributed.35
Spatial clustering is more pronounced
with high-skill and high-technology
industries (electronic computing machinery, process control instruments, semiconductors, and pharmaceuticals) than light
industries. This is consistent with the documented findings of higher-scale effects in
heavier industries. High-skill and high-tech
industries have more capital-intensive production technology. They are also likely to
benefit more from the various mechanisms
that generate external economies (discussed
earlier).
In the Republic of Korea the ranking of
industries by their localization economies
follows the ranking of industries by their
spatial concentration across cities. Heavy
and transport industries (metals, chemicals, and transport equipment) tend to be
concentrated in a few highly specialized
cities to take advantage of local scale externalities, while traditional or light industries with low scale externalities (food and
textiles) are more dispersed.36 High-tech
industries (computers, aircraft, medical
instruments, and electronic components)
tend to be more concentrated than durable-good, machinery-related industries
(metal works, industrial, refrigeration, and
machinery and equipment).37 Cities in the
Republic of Korea have also become more
specialized.38

Services become even more densely
clustered than manufacturing
As countries move to a more mature phase
of development, their economies become
more knowledge based and service oriented. The spatial concentration of activity

WDR09_10_Ch04.indd 133

133

also rises (see chapter 2).39,40 The important
types of agglomeration economy change as
development progresses. In particular, as an
economy becomes more knowledge based,
knowledge spillovers, which require proximity, become more important. Evidence
suggests that knowledge industries are spatially concentrated.41
Services are even more spatially concentrated than manufacturing—for two
reasons. First, they tend to use less land per
employee. Banks, insurance companies,
hospitals, and schools can operate comfortably in high-rise buildings that economize
on land and allow for high density. Second,
because of external economies, business
services have even greater potential for
agglomeration, as firms serve one another:
every bank needs advertising, every advertising fi rm a bank account. The potential
for codependence and agglomeration is
thus intrinsic to services.42
Services are prominent among the most
agglomerated industries in the United
States.43 Larger cities have been amassing
service jobs from areas less than 20 kilometers away.44 Between 1972 and 1992,
jobs in the United States became more
spatially concentrated, driven primarily by
the rising localization of service activities
in larger cities,45 as small and mediumsize counties lost jobs to the more urban
areas.46 For instance, in Suffolk County,
Massachusetts, which includes Boston, 35
percent of the workforce is in business services, nearly twice the national average of
18 percent.47 In the United Kingdom nearly
60 percent of all venture capital offices are
in London.48 London-based venture capital
offices favor investment in London-based
small and medium enterprises to get better information: they can easily visit and
monitor these enterprises. As communication costs fall, services become more tradable, allowing providers to take advantage
of narrower specialization and agglomeration economies. For instance, fi nancial
services can be disaggregated into more
refi ned categories of retail banking, consumer credit and fi nancing, commercial
and corporate banking, investment banking, and so on. And within investment
banking, there is further specialization

10/8/08 2:11:49 PM

134

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

in mergers and acquisitions, corporate
fi nance, fi xed income, debt management,
and the like.

Cities facilitate scale economies
of all types
A plant in an isolated location can benefit
from internal scale economies, but unless
it is situated in an area of density, it cannot
enjoy the competitive benefits associated
with localization or urbanization economies. Towns and cities bring together
large pools of skilled labor and suppliers
of specialized intermediate inputs and
by doing so, enhance employer-employee
and buyer-seller matches. Input-sharing is
an important channel for agglomeration
economies.49 Density of activity allows
more refi ned specialization and a wider
variety of intermediate inputs. Averaging across industries, a fi rm’s relocation
from a less-dense location (of 499 or fewer
neighboring employees in the same industry) to a denser location (of 10,000–24,999
neighboring employees) results in a 3 percent increase in purchased input intensity. 50 The composition of a city emerges
from the scope for agglomeration economies and their interaction with other
aspects of microeconomic behavior.
Large cities with more firms allow workers to hedge against sector-specific risks.
Smaller specialized cities expose workers to
greater industry-specific shocks but provide
favorable match-specific advantages. In
both cases the concentration of economic
activity lowers the search costs between
fi rms and workers, which results in fewer
unfi lled vacancies, lower risk of job loss,
and shorter durations of unemployment.
The large variety and quantity of inputs
to share in cities also implies better quality-matching. For instance, because of the
better matching possible, married couples
with university education, are increasingly
found in large cities, up from 32 percent in
1940 to 50 percent in 1990.51 Cities make
it easier for producers to fi nd inputs and
for customers to experiment and discover
new possibilities. Examples of easy diffusion of information and social learning
range from the congregation of diners in
certain restaurants, to the propagation of

WDR09_10_Ch04.indd 134

rumors, to the word-of-mouth learning in
neighborhoods.52
Learning mechanisms also explain
agglomeration in cities.53 As Alfred Marshall implied, when knowledge spillovers
exist, “The mysteries of the trade become
no mysteries but are as it were in the air.”54
Knowledge spillovers are difficult to measure, because they can seldom be traced
through transactions. With patent citations, however, it is possible to identify a
paper trail for some knowledge spillovers.
U.S. patent citations are spatially concentrated, with citations 5 to 10 times more
likely to come from the same standard metropolitan statistical area as originator patents.55 Another strand of research focuses
on workers as the primary vehicles of
knowledge, implying that economies with
substantial labor mobility across industries
will exhibit a greater spread of ideas and
growth.56

Agglomeration economies are amplified
by density and attenuated by distance
Cities obviously reflect the demand for
density. People choose to live close to one
another, paying high rents and tolerating
crime and congestion. This density helps
reduce distances of all types. Cities are thus
a natural market creator and a conduit for
internal and external scale economies. Firms
are drawn to dense areas concentrated with
people and infrastructure by the possibility of serving a large local market from a
large plant at low transport costs.57 Increasing return-to-scale production technology
leads to large factories with many workers.
The sizable workforce forms a large local
market. By reducing transport costs, cities
with a large local demand attract fi rms in
different industries. So a self-reinforcing
process of agglomeration that begins with
the expanding local market further raises
industry productivity.
Plants in dense economic environments
tend to be larger.58 As local market scale
increases, firms are more likely to outsource
their service functions to local suppliers.59
This outsourcing further encourages competition and diversity in the local business
service market, which reinforces outsourcing. Firms are attracted to locations with

10/8/08 2:11:49 PM

135

Scale Economies and Agglomeration

large concentrations of other firms in their
industry and with large demand.60 The large
and growing academic literature suggests
that doubling city size will increase productivity by 3–8 percent.61 In the Republic
of Korea, a plant in a city with 1,000 workers could, without altering its input mix,
increase output by 20–25 percent simply by
relocating to a city that has 15,000 workers in the same industry.62 And the spatial
concentration of people reduces the cost of
producing knowledge because information
transmission, competition, spying, imitation, learning, innovation, and the commercialization of new ideas are easier.63 In
the United States a staggering 96 percent of
innovations occur in metropolitan areas.64
Agglomeration economies are inf luenced by geographic scope, and the density of economic activity and the distance
between economic agents influence the
productivity gains from scale economies
(see table 4.3). For example, doubling the
density of economic activity in European
Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistics (NUTS1) regions can increase total
factor productivity growth by 0.42 percentage points a year.65 Evidence from Brazil
and the United States indicates that doubling the distance to dense metropolitan
centers reduces productivity by 15 percent;
doubling the distance from 280 to 550 kilometers reduces profits by 6 percent. The
concept of distance can be generalized,
in this context, from distance in physical
space to distance in industrial space. For
example, spillovers between industries are
more likely if industries share related scientific facilities.66 Furthermore, the extent
to which distance attenuates agglomeration economies differs for different types
of agglomeration. For example, knowledge
spillovers that rely on face-to-face communication decay more quickly with distance
than the home market effect.67

A portfolio of places
Adam Smith introduced scale economies,
factor mobility, and transport costs as
central to understanding the nature and
causes of the wealth of nations. But until
the 1980s most economists were happier to
anchor their inquiries on another concept

WDR09_10_Ch04.indd 135

Table 4.3

Scale economies amplify with density and attenuate with distance

Finding

Data sources
Scale economies amplify with density . . .

Doubling economic density increases
productivity by 6 percent

1988 data on output per worker in U.S. states
(Ciccone and Hall 1996)

Doubling employment density increases
productivity by 4.5–5.0 percent

Data for the late 1980s on nonagricultural
private value added per worker in European
NUTS regions (Ciccone 2002)

A one-standard-deviation increase in the
share of own-industry local employment
in the first period will raise that industry’s
employment level by 16–31 percent in a later
period

Data on five traditional manufacturing
industries in 224 U.S. metropolitan areas
between 1970 and 1987 (Henderson, Kuncoro,
and Turner 1995)

A 10-percent increase in local own-industry
employment results in 0.6–0.8 percent
increase in plant output, for the same level
of inputs

Republic of Korea city-industry data for 1983,
1989, 1991–93 (Henderson, Lee, and Lee 2001)

and attenuate with distance.
Increasing distance from the city center by
1 percent leads to a 0.13 percent decline in
productivity

1980 data for 356 new manufacturing firms in
Brazil (Hansen 1990)

Doubling the distance to a regional market
center lowers profits by 6 percent

Firm data in auto-component and agricultural
machinery in Brazil and the United States
(Henderson 1994)

Doubling travel time to a city center reduces
productivity by 15 percent

Data for eight industries in Brazil (Sveikaukas
and others 1985)

Own-county (lagged and contemporaneous)
effect on plant productivity, but no effect from
neighboring county

Plant-level data on productivity, 1972–92, in
742 U.S. counties (Henderson 2003b)

Effects of own-industry employment on new
plant openings attenuate rapidly within the
first five 1-mile concentric rings

12 million U.S. establishments from Dun &
Bradstreet Marketplace database (Rosenthal
and Strange 2003)

Source: WDR 2009 team.

introduced in The Wealth of Nations, that
of the “invisible hand” of perfect competition.68 But perfect competition is an artificial theoretical construct: it assumes a large
number of infi nitesimal firms with negligible influence over market prices, even in
the immediate vicinity of the fi rm’s location. Its assumption of constant returns to
scale further implies the so-called problem
of “backyard capitalism.”69 That is, in the
world of constant returns to scale, smallscale production is as efficient as large-scale
production, so every household should be
producing a fully diversified range of goods
and services in its own backyard. Economics
professors, when pressed by students to give
a real-world example of such an industry,
would offer subsistence agriculture—small
farms producing wheat or rice, whose produce could not be distinguished from those
of others. Never mind that most people no

10/8/08 2:11:49 PM

136

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

longer worked on small farms in countries
that had grown out of poverty. It led to convenient characterizations of the economy in
which all firms and workers were identical,
so one firm or worker could be considered
representative of all. Scale economies were
inconvenient—they required acknowledging that specialization differentiated people
and products.
Occasionally, the contradiction between
internal increasing returns and perfect
competition would surface, but because of
the technical difficulties it raised, it quickly
would be buried again.70 Then, during the
1970s, two economists at Princeton University proposed a technical solution to model
increasing returns to scale, opening a door
for researchers to the same realm that so
many fi rms and workers had inhabited
since the industrial revolution.71
Table 4.4

Thirty years of theoretical advance recognize the importance of scale economies

Subject

Main insights

Key publications

Industrial
organization,
1970s

Increasing returns to scale and imperfect
competition can be incorporated into formal
economic models

Spence 1976; Dixit
and Stiglitz 1977

Urban
economics,
1970s

External economies within cities and systems
of cities; different levels of agglomerations are
related to city functions

Mills 1972; Diamond
and Mirrless 1973;
and Henderson 1974

International
trade, 1980s

Increasing returns and imperfect competition
explain intraindustry trade between countries
with similar endowments; initial endowments may,
through trade and specialization, influence the
long-run rate of growth; trade unleashes forces of
both convergence and divergence

Krugman 1980, 1981;
Ethier 1982; Helpman
and Krugman 1985;
Grossman and
Helpman 1995

Economic
geography,
1990s

Increasing returns-to-scale activities are
characterized by agglomeration and imperfect
competition, while constant returns-to-scale
activities remain dispersed and competitive,
helping to explain spatial distribution of economic
activity and growth of cities

Krugman 1991;
Fujita, Krugman,
and Venables 1999;
Henderson 1999

Endogenous
growth, 1980s

Perfect competition and knowledge-related
or human capital–related externalities imply
aggregate increasing returns and explain why
growth rates may not fall over time and why wealth
levels across countries do not converge

Romer 1986; Lucas
Jr. 1988

Endogenous
growth, 1990s

Imperfect competition explains why the incentive
to spend on R&D does not fall, and knowledge
spillovers explain why R&D costs fall over time,
resulting in more and better products that fuel
growth

Romer 1990;
Grossman and
Helpman 1991; Aghion
and Howitt 1992

Endogenous
growth, 2000s

Imperfect competition and Schumpeterian entry
and exit of firms, with entrants bringing new
technologies, explain how a country’s growth
and optimal policies vary with distance to the
technology frontier; knowledge accumulation in
cities leads to growth

Aghion and Howitt
2005; Rossi-Hansberg
and Wright 2007;
Duranton 2007

Source: Adapted from Gill and Kharas 2007.

WDR09_10_Ch04.indd 136

By the late 1980s scale economies were
standard features of the explanations for
international trade. By the early 1990s,
growth theorists had accepted the need to
incorporate imperfect competition among
fi rms into aggregate formulations of an
economy. By the mid-1990s, theorists were
beginning to show how these ideas could be
used to understand the spatial distribution
of economic activity, including the rise of
towns and cities. With the new economic
geography, researchers came to realize
that the dichotomy between internal and
external economies is often false. Why?
Because, in modeling the microfoundations
of agglomeration economies, the source of
external economies have often been found
in the interaction of internal scale economies with other influences, such as transport costs.

Recognizing scale economies: recent
theoretical advances
The literature on the microeconomic
foundations of agglomeration economies
flourished in the last 20 years by combining models in the paradigms summarized
in table 4.4 and insights about urban
economics that emphasize the tension
between benefits from the concentration
of economic activity and costs arising from
that spatial concentration.72 In general,
researchers have progressively recognized
that economic growth has different impacts
on fi rms and workers depending on their
sector and location. The underlying reason
is the love for variety in consumption and
the economies of scale in production; the
proximate reasons are product differentiation, monopolistic power, specialization,
and location externalities.
The formal recognition of scale economies, externalities, and imperfect competition makes economic theory conform more
closely to the world in which policy makers
live. The policy implications of this work
arise from the way economic production
relates to trade, ideas, and cities.

•

Intraindustry trade. The main insight
coming from a formal recognition of
increasing returns to scale and product
differentiation is that trade may take

10/8/08 2:11:49 PM

137

Scale Economies and Agglomeration

•

•

place between economies that are similar
in factor endowments: both interindustry and intraindustry trade may profitably take place. The main implication is
that countries may, in theory, encourage
some activities and ensure comparative
advantage.
Idea-driven economies. The insight is
that the nonrival nature of ideas makes
them different from other factors of production, such as capital, land, and labor,
in that the market may underinvest in
the creation of new ideas. The main
implication is that governments should,
theoretically, subsidize some strands of
research and development (R&D), such
as those that will ensure the continuance
of the comparative advantage a country
has acquired in certain areas.
City-based growth. The main insight is
that activities that display increasing
returns generated by factors external to
a firm tend to be concentrated in cities,
while those displaying constant returns
remain more dispersed. The main implication is that policies to keep cities business-friendly and livable become more
important as economies develop.

Urban systems exhibit some stylized
patterns. Larger cities tend to be more
diversified and service oriented: they
innovate, invent, breed new fi rms, and
expel mature industries.73 Smaller cities
tend to be industrially specialized: they
produce or manufacture and receive relocated industries from diversified cities.74
The relative city-size distribution and
industrial concentration in specific cities tend to be stable over time. An urban
system tends to be made up of a few large
diversified cities and many smaller, more
specialized, cities. 75
The stylized observation in most countries is an urban hierarchy of a few large
cities and many smaller cities with varied economic functions.76 At the global
level, “world cities” at the top of the hierarchy, such as New York, London, Paris,
and Tokyo, are characterized by a diverse
industrial structure, predominantly service based, and a labor force with a wide
range of skills.77

WDR09_10_Ch04.indd 137

Smaller cities specialize, receiving
industries as they mature and relocate
Even after controlling for natural comparative advantage, externalities are still
important in explaining the patterns of
specialization and diversity among cities
(see table 4.5). The production of nontraditional items is more concentrated in diverse
U.S. cities, while standardized traditional
goods are concentrated in smaller specialized cities. Similarly, in Japan, smaller cities are specialized, while low-tech activity
and standardized high-tech production
processes are located offshore. Likewise, in
the Republic of Korea, large cities are more
service oriented and smaller cities, manufacturing oriented.78
Mid-size cities tend to specialize in
mature industries, not new ones, and larger
cities specialize in services not manufacturing.79 Improved infrastructure and falling
transport costs have encouraged standardized manufacturing production to move
out of high-rent centers to smaller cities.
Table 4.5 Agglomeration economies vary by city size and profile, and by the industry life cycle
Main finding

Data

Localization economies are more important for heavy
industries; urbanization economies are more important
for light industries

Data for two-digit manufacturing
industries in Japan (Nakamura
1985)

Localization economies become less important, giving
way to urbanization economies, as cities expand in size

Cross-sectional data for the
United States and Brazil
(Henderson 1986)

Scale economies from labor pooling are stronger
in newer and expanding markets, while those from
knowledge spillovers and specialized asset-sharing are
more important in mature markets

Annual firm employment data
for four U.S. metropolitan areas
and three two-digit industries
(Hammond and Von Hagen 1994)

For mature capital goods industries, there is evidence
of localization economies but none of urbanization
economies; for new high-tech industries, there
is evidence of both localization and urbanization
economies

Panel data of 742 urban counties
for 1970–87 (Henderson, Kuncoro,
and Turner 1995).

For all industries both localization and urbanization
effects are important. For traditional industries most
effects die out after four or five years, but for high-tech
industries, the effects can persist longer. The biggest
effects are typically from conditions of three to four
years ago, in the county and metropolitan area

Data for five traditional and three
new high-tech manufacturing
industries in 224 metropolitan
areas between 1970 and 1987
(Henderson 1997)

The historical industrial environment of cities matters. In
fairly mature cities urbanization economies encourage
industrial growth

Growth data for the largest
industries (1956–87) in 170 U.S.
cities (Glaeser and others 1992)

For high-tech industries a 1-standard-deviation increase
in diversity of the local manufacturing base increases
productivity by 60 percent, but diversity has no effect on
standard industries (such as textiles, or food).

City-industry data for the Republic
of Korea, 1983, 1989, 1991–93
(Henderson, Lee, and Lee 2001)

Source: WDR 2009 team.

10/8/08 2:11:50 PM

138

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Production in large cities focuses on services, nonstandardized manufacturing,
and R&D.80 The relocation of manufacturing to the suburbs has been documented in
Colombia, Indonesia, the Republic of Korea,
and Thailand.81 It is common to find that
services do not deconcentrate from city centers to their surrounding suburbs.82

Large cities diversify, incubate new
ideas and firms, and push out mature
industries
New firms often start in diverse cities, but
they move to specialized ones after they
mature. Of all new plants in France, for
example, 84 percent were created in cities
with above-median diversity.83 Some 72
percent of firm relocations are from an area
with above-median diversity to an area with
above-median specialization. In the United
States almost all product innovations are in
metropolitan areas. Industrial diversity and
city size are both good for innovative output.84 Trial plants are based in large cities
in Japan, but mass production plants are
in small cities or rural areas. Young fi rms
appear to need a period of experimentation
to determine their ideal production process.85 In the early learning phase, diversified cities act as “nurseries” for fi rms to
try out a variety of processes. Once a firm
identifies its ideal process, it can begin mass
production in specialized cities, where all
firms share similar processes or specializations (see box 4.4).
The different economic functions that
cities serve can be seen in the clustering
of headquarters from different sectors and
concentrations of business services in a few
large cities while production plants from
each sector congregate in smaller specialized cities. In 1950 there was little difference across U.S. cities in their proportions
of managers and production workers.
Although the largest cities already housed
more managers, there was no clear ranking
by city size. By 1980, however, the differences
across cities had increased substantially, and
a clear ranking by size had emerged. Larger
cities had become specialized in management and information-intensive activity,
which benefit from face-to-face contacts,
and smaller cities had become specialized

WDR09_10_Ch04.indd 138

in production. This pattern became even
more marked during the 1990s.86
Many business and economic historians
have argued that the extra costs of coordinating and monitoring multilocation firms
relative to integrated firms have come down
significantly following key developments in
transport and communication technologies, as well as new management practices.87
Technological progress in transport and
telecommunication made it less costly for
firms to separate their production facilities
from their headquarters and management
facilities. Firms can locate their production
facilities in environments with same-sector
specialization, and their headquarters in a
metropolis with a concentration of business service employment. Furthermore,
the reduced communication costs that
make transportation of service industry
outputs (through electronic transmittal)
cheaper did not imply the “death of distance” and the fading of cities into obscurity, contrary to many predictions.88 In this
context, while distance has become less
important for transmitting information, it
has become more important for transmitting knowledge. Telecommunication can
be a complement to, but it is certainly not
a strong substitute for, face-to-face interactions, which involve several forms of communication simultaneously, notably body
language and verbal conversation (see box
4.5).89 The geographic distribution of commercial Internet domains suggests that the
Internet is a complement to face-to-face
interactions (primarily within-city) as well
as a substitute for longer-distance communication, such as phone or postal mail.90

Activities that cities specialize in are
stable, and so are city-size distributions
Externalities imply that history matters.
That is, modern-day location patterns for
an industry are strongly influenced by the
historical industrial environment of cities
and thus by the localization economies.
Such intangibles include the local stock
of knowledge relevant for an industry or
a labor force with specific acquired skills.
Two otherwise-identical enterprises in the
same city could benefit differently from the
local agglomeration depending on how long

10/8/08 2:11:50 PM

139

Scale Economies and Agglomeration

B OX 4.4

When sowing and reaping happen in different places: rising interdependence of cities

Urban specialists and economists have
long debated whether specialized or
diverse cities are more conducive to
growth. Cities that are narrowly specialized create greater economies of agglomeration, so a firm’s productivity increases
with proximity to similar firms. Meanwhile, a diverse mix of activities makes
cities more likely to grow, particularly in
new sectors. The main conclusion: both
diversity and specialization are important,
but at different points in a firm’s life cycle.
A “balanced” urban system is not one in
which all cities are similarly specialized or
diversified, but one in which both diversified and specialized cities coexist.
For young firms, urban diversity is more
important. A new businessman may not
know all the details of the product to be
made, what components to use, where to
source them, which workers to hire, and
how to finance the venture. Firms using
similar technologies in different sectors are more likely to share information
about new practices and technologies
than firms in the same sector. For firms in
more standardized or mature industries,
urban specialization is more important.
These firms typically benefit less from
the flexibility from urban diversity, and
by locating in a specialized environment;
they can better reap the benefits of urban
agglomeration economies. For example,
auto firms in Detroit lower their costs
by sharing parts suppliers, and garment
manufacturers in cities like San Pedro Sula
in Honduras benefit from thick labor markets that help workers move between fac-

tories as the market adjusts to the whims
and fancies of fashion.
Clusters of similar firms are sometimes
promoted as the best environment for
innovation. But studies find instead
that diverse metropolises do better in
breeding new products and processes.
For example, the adoption of computercontrolled machinery for cutting metals
has been faster in situations in which
many firms (ranging from furnace
manufacturers to aircraft producers) have
similar technical needs but are not direct
competitors. Firms for which innovating is
important (such as electronics producers)
prefer diversity during the early innovative phases, and then they relocate to
specialized cities for mass production. For
manufacturing and services, unlike agriculture, “sowing” and “reaping” can take
place in different locations.
Just as product development and mass
production increasingly take place at
different locations, so too does management and production. Half a century ago
the difficulties associated with managing
businesses from a distance made firms
keep their headquarters and management offices close to their factories. Falling transport and communications costs
have made it much easier to manage production from far away (see chapter 6).
As a result, many firms have separated
management and production spatially,
searching for the best possible conditions
for each. For headquarters, this means
locations with other headquarters where
these firms can, for example, share legal

each has been in the city. Similarly, two otherwise identical cities would offer different
types of external economies depending on
their histories.91
The influences of history and specialization are consistent with the observed
stability in the relative city-size distribution and the industrial concentration in
specific cities over time. Within countries
the relative sizes of cities tend to remain
unchanged. Among urban specialists,
this phenomenon is often represented as a
recurring relationship between a city’s size
relative to the largest city in the country,

WDR09_10_Ch04.indd 139

services or advertising agencies; for production facilities, this means places with
other such plants. Headquarters are usually in bigger cities, because professional
services tend to exhibit greater economies
of agglomeration, are less land-intensive,
and employ highly educated employees
willing to pay for big-city amenities. If land
markets work well, the ensuing increase in
land prices prompts production establishments to relocate to smaller, more specialized towns and cities.
Cities in the United States provide a
good illustration. In 1950 the ratio of managers to production workers was similar
across cities of different sizes. By 1990,
however, cities with between 75,000 and
250,000 people had 20 percent fewer
managers per production worker than
the national average; cities with 1.5 to 5
million people had 20 percent more managers per production worker; and those
larger than 5 million people were 50 percent above the national average. A similar
trend can be seen in other countries such
as France and Germany.
Policy makers should be aware of these
developments. Since this growing interdependence manifests itself in plant relocations away from large cities, governments
may be tempted to take away resources
from them. This would kill the goose that
lays the golden eggs, since such relocations to smaller specialized cities are just a
later part of a life cycle of firms that large,
diverse cities helped give birth to.
Contributed by Diego Puga.

known as Zipf ’s law: a city’s population
size relative to the primate city is inversely
proportional to its rank in the national
hierarchy of cities.92 There is also persistence in the industrial concentration in
specific cities.93
Among mature industries the persistence in employment patterns across cities
is high over time, and the convergence in
individual industry employment across cities is slow. This persistence occurs despite
high plant and employment turnover rates
for individual manufacturing industries,
and despite strong evidence that plants

10/8/08 2:11:50 PM

140

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

B OX 4.5

Cities continue to thrive as telecommunication
costs fall

As telecommunications improve,
cities become more important as a
platform for interactions and knowledge transfers. Recent studies in the
United States and Japan document
the complementary roles of telecommunications and face-to-face interactions: people closer to one another
physically call each other more often.
One interpretation is that faceto-face interactions generate more
demand for telephone interactions.
Since the mid-1980s, when faxes and
e-mail became prevalent, business
travel has risen more than 50 percent.
Another evidence of increased faceto-face interactions with falling telecommunication costs is the phenomenal growth of co-authored articles
in economics—from 12 percent in
the 1960s to 56 percent in the 1990s.
Local, out-of-state, and international

co-authorships all rose. Better telecommunications increase long-range
interactions, but not at the expense
of local interactions.
As ideas become more complex
and difficult to communicate, the
value of intensive face-to-face interaction rises, and cities become even
more important. And if cities are
centers of telecommunication technology, improvements in information
technology will increase their economic role. The rise of the New York
multimedia industry may signal the
comparative advantage of large cities
in facilitating the difficult information
flows in cutting-edge industries. In
the developing world, the rise of Bangalore is a case in point.
Sources: Gaspar and Glaeser 1998; Huber
1995; Sassen 1991; and Gottman 1977.

relocate as local wages and demand conditions change.94 Historically, some cities have
undergone major sectoral overhauls, but
they have tended to be the exceptions.95
The persistence of an industry’s employment concentration in specific cities, which
implies the “lock-in” of industrial structure,
can be explained by localization economies.
These cities can better compete for and,
over time, retain plants and employment in
that industry. A larger scale of own-industry activity historically means that firms in
that locality today will operate more productively with greater accumulated knowledge about technology, sources of supply of
different quality inputs, and local culture
and its effect on the legal, business, and
institutional climate. These localization
advantages are relevant for more traditional
manufacturing industries.96 They explain
the longevity of many industrial clusters in
certain locations—such as the world-class
cutlery cluster in Solingen, Germany, since
1348.97
There is also evidence of persisting concentration of particular services in specific
cities. The American mutual fund industry

WDR09_10_Ch04.indd 140

began in Boston in 1924, when the Massachusetts Investment Trust was founded.
Today, Boston is still home to almost
a third of U.S. employment in mutual
fund and asset management services. The
Hartford insurance industry began even
earlier, in the late-eighteenth century.
Local merchants insured each other’s
overseas trading expeditions by sharing
their profits and losses. These informal
arrangements eventually grew into large
insurance companies, starting with the
Hartford Fire Insurance Company in 1810.
Other major Hartford insurers, including
Aetna, Connecticut General, and Travelers, were founded in the early and middle
1800s. Hartford is still known today as
the “insurance city,” with a wide range
of related services such as life insurance,
medical insurance, fi re/marine/casualty
insurance, and pension funds.98

Apprehension of market forces
Over the past century, producers and workers in the developing world have sought, and
often found, their fortunes in towns and
cities. In the past three decades, researchers
have analyzed and increasingly understood
the gains from urban agglomerations of all
shapes and sizes. But it is not yet clear that
policy makers appreciate the sheer strength
of these market forces and the benefits that
come from harnessing them.
More than half the developing world’s
governments surveyed in 2005 by the UN
Population Division expressed a desire
to make major changes to the spatial distribution of their populations. Almost
three-quarters of developing country officials expressed a strong desire to implement policies to reduce migration into
urban areas or to take actions to reverse
rural-urban migration trends.99 Many in
developed countries are equally fearful
of urbanization in developing countries.
“The explosive growth of cities around the
world—especially the rise of huge, nationsized Third World metropolises—has
U.S. scientists and officials worried. Chief
among their concerns: “megacities increasingly will serve as incubators of diseases,
economic disruptions, and endless political crises.”100 This worry was reflected in

10/8/08 2:11:50 PM

141

Scale Economies and Agglomeration

the goal of the 2006 World Urban Forum,
held to discuss “mega-cities with mega
problems.”101 The prevalent view was that
“cities in the developed world have historically been engines of economic growth.
But many cities in the Third World are so
dysfunctional that they have become drags
on economic progress.”102
Some of the favored solutions: slow the
massive migration to cities, decongest the
largest cities in the developing world by
establishing new cities, and make the biggest cities centers for cleaner high-technology activities. These solutions all represent
a potentially costly misreading of the market forces that drive the spatial transformations for economic development.

A misplaced fear of urbanization
Economic activities in urban areas account
for as much as 80 percent of GDP in more
urban and industrialized countries. The
urban share of economic activity in less
developed countries is about 50 percent.
Just the 10 largest metropolitan areas in
Mexico, which account for a third of the
country’s population, generate 62 percent
of its national value added.103 In Vietnam,
where the share of the urban population is
30 percent, the share of cities in national
output is 70 percent. In China 120 cities
account for three-quarters of the country’s
GDP.104 Clearly cities make a dominant
contribution to economic production, even
in poor and middle-income countries.
There is also ample evidence that urban
areas in developing countries, including
those in the poorest countries in Africa,
deliver external economies. Consumption
in urban and rural households in a broad
cross-section of developing countries shows
that people with similar observable characteristics enjoy higher consumption attributable purely to their urban location. The gains
range from 2 percent in Hungary, the Krygyz
Republic, and Poland, to 30 percent in Costa
Rica, Ethiopia, India, Romania, and Tanzania, and to more than 80 percent in Angola,
Bolivia, and Rwanda (see figure 4.1).
These magnitudes make it futile for
policy makers to try to restrict the flow of
people to urban areas. Even when restrictions have stemmed migration flows, the

WDR09_10_Ch04.indd 141

Figure 4.1

The urban premium for household consumption can be considerable

Maldives
Bolivia
Angola
Rwanda
Guinea
Peru
Burundi
Paraguay
Gambia, The
Mexico
Senegal
Honduras
Cambodia
Mali
Vietnam
Brazil
El Salvador
Guatemala
Nepal
Zambia
Djibouti
Chad
Bhutan
Uganda
Colombia
Ghana
Thailand
Mauritania
Philippines
Cameroon
Burkina Faso
South Africa
Morocco
Bangladesh
Sri Lanka
Russian Federation
Malawi
Madagascar
Ethiopia
India
Indonesia
Tanzania
Nicaragua
Swaziland
Côte d’Ivoire
Timor-Leste
Guyana
Moldova
Costa Rica
Egypt, Arab Rep. of
Chile
Ecuador
Benin
Nigeria
Mongolia
Georgia
Bulgaria
Pakistan
Armenia
Romania
Turkey
Jordan
Croatia
Ukraine
Mozambique
Congo, Dem. Rep. of
Tajikistan
Poland
Hungary
Kyrgyz Republic
0

0.2

0.4

0.6

0.8

1.0

1.2

1.4

1.6

1.8

2.0

Ratio of urban consumption premiums
to rural consumption levels
Source: WDR 2009 team calculations, using 120 household surveys in 75 countries.

10/8/08 2:11:50 PM

142

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

economic costs have been high. China’s
policies to restrict rural-urban migration
until the late 1990s stunted urbanization,
with between half and two-thirds of Chinese cities remaining too small. For the
typical city in China, being too small is
estimated to result in a loss of about 17 percent in net output per worker; for at least a
quarter of the cities, these losses may range
between 25 and 70 percent.105

A misplaced preoccupation with size,
not function, of cities
A city’s prospects for prosperity and even
survival are determined by how nimbly
the same piece of land is adapted to changing market demands. Given that land is an
immobile factor critical to the production
of any activity, the real estate choices that
cities provide influence the magnitude of
external economies and the nature and
specialization of city economies. To be

B OX 4.6

Hong Kong, China: market forces led the way,
government followed

Hong Kong, China, with a land area
of about 1,000 square kilometers,
less than a quarter the size of Rhode
Island, started out as a fishing village.
In the 1200s Hong Kong, a hilly and
barren island, saw its first population
boom as Chinese fled the mainland to
escape war and famine. People made
a living on salt production, pearl
diving, and fishery trades. Between
the 1650s and the 1800s, Hong Kong
was also a military outpost and naval
base, and its economy continued to
rely on trade. By the end of World
War II in 1945, the population in Hong
Kong, China, had been reduced to
less than half the prewar total of 1.6
million.
In the 1950s and 1960s, Hong Kong
took up manufacturing buttons,
artificial flowers, umbrellas, textiles,
enamels, footwear, and plastics.
Squatter camps provided homes for
the masses. The camps led to disasters—like the Shek Kip Mei fire—until
the governor responded by putting
up multistory residential buildings.
Conditions in public housing were
basic, with communal cooking facili-

WDR09_10_Ch04.indd 142

ties. For many decades, the private
sector showed more commitment to
and interest in urban redevelopment.
Between 1960 and 1980 the government experimented with urban
renewal and comprehensive redevelopment to improve environmental
conditions, traffic circulation, and
community facilities. Over subsequent decades, the flexibility in land
use planning and the participation
of the private sector would prove
crucial to satisfying the demands on
land for housing, commerce, industry,
transport, recreation, and community use. This combination enabled
Hong Kong, China, to flourish into the
regional center of business and financial services that it is today.
Consistent with the tradition of minimal government intervention in Hong
Kong, China, the private sector has
been the driving force behind urban
transformation. The government contracted out urban redevelopment to a
specialist organization dominated by
private development interests.
Source: Adams and Hastings 2001.

attractive to investors, a city must satisfy
the demands of its dominant or growing
industries for both real estate and facilities. For example, professional services and
financial services require large amounts of
office space, which can be more efficiently
provided vertically in high-rise office
buildings. Manufacturing requires large
amounts of land for factories to produce
goods, and for warehouses to store products
and materials. And the recreation, tourism,
and entertainment sectors require highly
visible, pedestrian-friendly areas of cities
and retail space.
The ability and ease of a city to adapt its
land to different uses according to changing market needs will enable its sustainable growth. The last 800 years in Hong
Kong, China, and the last 300 in New York
show the importance of markets in signaling and implementing this urban renewal
(see boxes 4.6 and 4.7). In New York the
mercantile trade grew out of the early
shipping industry. In turn, the mercantile
trade industry would help give birth to the
city’s modern fi nance industry. Traders in
New York City in the late-nineteenth century thrived by sharing access not only to
physical transportation infrastructure (the
harbor, canals, and railroads), but also to
intermediate inputs of specialized services
not available elsewhere (such as scheduled
sailings, wholesalers, and ship brokers).
Later, these inputs to trade became the
foundations for shared inputs in fi nance,
with maritime insurance underwriting
the subsequent basis for other forms of
investment.106
Cities that provide fluid land and property
markets and other supportive institutions—
such as protecting property rights, enforcing
contracts, and financing housing—will more
likely flourish over time as the needs of markets change. Successful cities have relaxed
zoning laws to allow higher-value users to
bid for the valuable land—and have adopted
flexible land use regulations to adapt to their
changing roles overtime.
The benefits of agglomeration economies arise from the density of economic
activity. These are the advantages for an
information technology startup locating in Silicon Valley or a bookstall owner

10/8/08 2:11:51 PM

143

Scale Economies and Agglomeration

B OX 4.7

Reinvention and renewal: how New York became a great city

New Amsterdam was founded as a Dutch
colony in 1614. It passed into British hands
and became New York in 1664. Manhattan, the Bronx, Brooklyn, Queens, and
Staten Island were brought together
in 1898 in the form we know today.
Throughout its history, New York has continually rebuilt, reinvented, and renewed
itself. Once a fur-trapping and shipping
hub because of its natural harbor, New
York City is today a global financial center and a regional powerhouse in mass
media, arts, information and communication technology (ICT) innovation, and
medical research. The New York metropolitan area is home to more than 18.7
million people with a GDP of $1,133 billion, making it the second-largest urban
agglomeration in the world, after Tokyo.
New York had a gross metropolitan product of $950 billion in 2005, making it the
largest regional economy in the United
States. If it were a country, New York City
would be the world’s seventeenth largest, ahead of Switzerland. At more than
$56,000, it has the second highest per
capita production in the world.
A tour of four neighborhoods reveals
the city’s versatility and vibrancy.
SoHo. In the 1700s SoHo was farmland.
By the early 1800s it was primarily residential, inhabited by the wealthy and,
soon after, by the middle class. In due
time rapid development attracted many
businesses. Hotels, theaters, stores, mansions, minstrel halls, casinos, and brothels
appeared along Broadway. Starting in
the 1880s the textile industry settled in
the area. By the 1950s artists flocked to
the area because of low rents, a result of
people, industry, and commerce shifting
uptown. In October 1962 the City Club of

New York characterized SoHo as a commercial slum. But today the area, once
called Hell’s Hundred Acres, is a busy
commercial and retail district and home
to New York University.a
Wall Street. The financial district is
one of the city’s best-known and oldest neighborhoods. Today’s Wall Street
neighborhood is part of Manhattan Community District 1, which extends south
from Canal Street to the tip of Manhattan
at Battery Park and includes Governor’s
Island. It is home to the New York Stock
Exchange and the NASDAQ, the world’s
two largest stock exchanges.
The street’s name was originally De Wall
Straat in reference to the Walloons, Belgian
farmers who were the majority of the
residents living in New Netherland around
Fort Amsterdam in 1630. The beaver belt
was the single most important commodity
in New Netherland. Trade encouraged new
activity in the production of food, timber,
tobacco, and eventually slaves. In the lateeighteenth century there was a buttonwood tree at the foot of Wall Street under
which traders and speculators gathered
to trade informally. In 1792 this arrangement was formalized with the Buttonwood
Agreement, which laid the groundwork for
the New York Stock Exchange.
Meatpacking district. In 1969, when
Vincent Inconiglios moved to a loft on
Gansevoort Street in the meatpacking
district, it was a no man’s land. The neighborhood was defined by a stench that
overpowered the senses. Down the street
from Mr. Inconiglios was a pickle factory, and an importer of Spanish melons
occupied the shop downstairs. The area
was teeming with barrels of bones, meat,
and men in bloody white coats. Within

locating close to other bookstalls on Dadabhai Naoroji Road in Mumbai, India.
While the fi nancial sector of London is
largely concentrated in a few square miles
of the City and Canary Wharf, fi nancial
firms also benefit from being located
anywhere in Greater London. Firms benefit from locating close to other fi rms in
either the same or different industries and
unless all of them move together, they will
become less profitable, even if the location

WDR09_10_Ch04.indd 143

a generation, the transformation in the
meatpacking district was as stark as the
contrast between night and day.b Today,
more than 35 wholesale meat companies
still operate there. But the area is now
also home to world-class restaurants, art
galleries, a fashionable retail corridor,
and night clubs that take advantage of
the enormous former factory spaces.
Real estate prices have skyrocketed. Mr.
Inconiglios paid $50 a month when he
moved to the meatpacking district. In
2007 the Carlyle Group and Sitt Asset
Management acquired a pair of buildings
on West 14th Street for $70 million.c
Williamsburg. This neighborhood
reinvented itself from a booming trade
port to a rich industrial town after the
Civil War. With the construction of the
Williamsburg Bridge in 1903, many Jewish
families who lived in Manhattan’s Lower
East Side crossed the East River to a better life in Williamsburg. When industries
left the area in the 1960s and 1970s, Williamsburg became an immigrant ghetto.
But the cheap rent also made the neighborhood an artistic hub. The neighborhood evolved into a mix of Italian, Polish,
Hispanic, and Hasidic residents. In 2005
New York City approved zoning changes
that would allow for open spaces, parks,
affordable housing, and light industry.
Today, prices average $700–$900 per
square foot, and prominent waterfront
developments range in the millions.d
Sources: Seeman and Siegfried 1978; Shaw
2007; Biedermann 2007; Lynch and Mulero
2007.
a. Seeman and Siegfried 1978.
b. Shaw 2007.
c. Biedermann 2007.
d. Lynch and Mulero 2007.

they are moving to has lower wages and
cheaper land.
But bigger city size and economic density bring their own problems. For people
and fi rms, city living comes at a price in
both developing and developed countries.
Traffic in central London moves at only
11 miles per hour107—the same speed as
horse drawn carriages a hundred years ago.
Beijing is notorious for its pollution-induced smog. Land in Mumbai is among the

10/8/08 2:11:51 PM

144

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

most expensive in the world. High levels of
crime are an accepted feature of city living
around the world. Millions of city dwellers
live in overpopulated slum housing, with
little or no access to basic amenities and
services. These are the costs of density, the
diseconomies of agglomeration.
The main source of diseconomies is the
paucity of land in places where agglomeration economies take hold. Land is limited
and as economic growth occurs, it has to
be used with increasing intensity. Take
Manhattan in New York City, which has an
area of less than 35 square miles. In 1800
it had a population density of just under
3,000 people per square mile. By 1850 this
had risen to about 23,500, peaking in 1910
with a population density of more than
100,000. Today, the population density is
about 70,000. With land in fi xed supply, its
use eventually can offset any further benefits from agglomeration economies. The
way to offset the fi xed supply of a factor of
production is to substitute other factors for
it, and the rise of skyscrapers in many large
urban areas is an illustration of this substitution of capital for land. The building of
subway systems in many of the developed
countries’ larger cities is another example.
But such substitution has its limits, and the
increasing shortage of land in cities leads to
higher rents and congestion costs for workers and firms.
Better transport can, by reducing the
economic distance to density, in essence
make land a less-binding resource. Indeed,
with the long-term decline in transportation costs, cities have expanded. In 1680
London was only 4 square miles and,
because of the difficulties of traveling,
more than 450,000 people were crammed
into this small area. By 1901 the city had
expanded to 24 square miles, and the
average population density had fallen to
79,000. In 2001 London’s 627 square miles
had a population density of 13,203 people
per square mile. An expanding city meant
that millions of commuters have to be
transported from the suburbs, large volumes of retail goods have to be delivered
to shops, and manufactured products
have to be shipped out. All of this leads
to congestion or diseconomies of scale

WDR09_10_Ch04.indd 144

that reduce the gains from agglomeration
economies.
But restricting the growth of cities is
not the answer. There is no evidence that
the agglomeration economies of megacities have been exhausted. Indeed, evidence
suggests that the growth of vehicles in the
developing countries is increasing with per
capita income along a path similar to that
followed by the richer countries.108 The
problem has more to do with the spatial
structure of the city and investments in
infrastructure. Vehicle ownership is rising 15 to 20 percent annually in much of
the developing world.109 But most countries have not matched this growth with a
parallel expansion of transportation infrastructure, so traffic congestion is severe.
Cities in developing countries only devote
half as much land space to roads as in the
United States. But it is not just a matter of
increasing this capacity. In cities such as
Bangkok and Manila, it is the management
and the use of road space that is important.
Part of the problem is that in many cities
the responsibility for road infrastructure
has devolved from central to local governments, which do not always have the necessary resources.
Combined with the differing propensities of industries to benefit from agglomeration economies, the resulting constraints
explain why the spatial distribution of
economic activity within a country is not
restricted to a single center, but rather
consists of multiple centers of differing
sizes. For policy makers the challenge is to
best relax the constraints generated by the
congestion and overcrowding of land and
resources so that the benefits of agglomeration can be maximized. In many cases
these constraints have been tightened by
misguided land use policies and planning
failures, only adding to congestion (see
chapter 7).

A misplaced fascination
with “new” cities
The land Chicago was built on is not all
that different from the more sparsely
developed places around Lake Michigan.
Yet the difference in economic production
and household earnings between Chicago

10/8/08 2:11:51 PM

Scale Economies and Agglomeration

and other settlements on the lakefront
in Wisconsin and Indiana is stark. And
along the 10-hour drive through Texas
on Interstate Highway 75, wages and land
rents spike in Fort Worth, Austin, and San
Antonio and drop off sharply at points in
between. It is hard to reconcile these huge
differences in economic density with the
minor differences in physical geography;
it is as if the areas of Fort Worth and San
Antonio cast a shadow over the points in
between. A better understanding of economic geography, characterized by external economies, is required to harness
economic forces. But it is not always obvious that developing country governments
understand economic geography or appreciate these forces.
A survey of new city initiatives in the
Arab Republic of Egypt, Brazil, Hungary, India, and República Bolivariana de
Venezuela is sobering. Brazil transferred
its capital city from the coast to the midwestern interior more than 900 kilometers
away. República Bolivariana de Venezuela
picked Ciudad Guayana in the 1950s, a city
in the southern part of the country, to be
the industrial “growth pole” of the central
and southern region and to attract people
and jobs from the already rapidly growing
metropolitan region in the north. In many
formerly planned economies, the more
common practice was building industrial
towns to accelerate industrialization. In
Hungary, Dunaujvaro was designed as a
“steel town,” Tiszaújváros as a “chemistry
town,” and Kazincbarcika as a “mining and
heavy industry town.” The Soviet Union
built Magnitogorsk into a steel town in an
area with huge reserves of iron ore to challenge its capitalist rivals.
Some new towns were built around metropolitan areas to alleviate the pressures
that the large cities faced. Navi Mumbai
was established in 1972 with the hope of
developing a twin city for Mumbai, and to
decongest Mumbai. Egypt started a comprehensive new town construction program
around Cairo and away from Cairo to create
a “new population map of Egypt” starting
in the 1970s, and the construction is still
ongoing. Many of these cities were created

WDR09_10_Ch04.indd 145

145

for economic reasons, but some were created for political reasons. Have these new
towns and cities, met their goals? Generally
not.

•

•

•

•

New cities do better when they are
located near larger successful cities. But
they often suffer from the same government-related failures that led the government to establish them, especially the
failure to manage large cities well. That is,
governments that do badly in managing
large old cities also do badly in managing
small new cities.
New cities attract residents, sometimes
even more than anticipated, but often
not the people intended. That is, governments can set up (noncapital) cities, and they sometimes become viable,
but not for the reasons the government
envisaged.
These cities attract people because of
the circular causation that the new economic geography emphasizes: workers and entrepreneurs come to seek
markets, and then more people come
because this is where the markets are.
But there may be huge opportunity
costs, because the counterfactual could
be more organic growth of settlements.
That is, it makes sense for private agents
to come to these cities since others are
already there, but large efficiency losses
may result from the country’s point of
view. Once a “bad” location is picked,
it may not fail entirely because of circular causation, but that means the economic costs of the mistake are greater,
not smaller, since the country will pay
these costs for a long time.
New noncapital cities that seem to succeed are those where the purpose and
location are chosen over time by markets
and in cases in which the government
hastens the pace of growth by coordinating investments in infrastructure, housing, and general governance.

For these reasons, cities and towns should
be seen as market agents that, just like firms
and farms, serve market needs.

10/8/08 2:11:51 PM

CHAPTER 5

Factor Mobility
and Migration

T

146

WDR09_11_Ch05.indd 146

he largest movement of people in the
world occurs every year around the
beginning of February, as millions in
China travel to be with their families for the
Lunar New Year. In 2006, to mark the Year
of the Dog, about 11 million people traveled
out of Shanghai alone, and 10 million traveled into the city; 60 million people traveled
on the last day of the festivities. In February 2008 ice and snow storms frustrated the
plans of an estimated 200 million people
trying to travel across China to be with
their families for the New Year. Similarly, in
the United States during the Thanksgiving
period, millions take to the roads, airports,
bus and train stations. The number of trips
longer than 50 miles increases by half, with
about 10 million people a day traveling over
the holiday weekend, almost twice the daily
average during the rest of the year.1 The rising volume of holiday travelers in almost
every country, rich or poor, is a telling reflection of just how many people live and work
in a place other than where they were born.
This chapter is about the mobility of
labor and capital, how their movements
help to concentrate economic activity, and
how these flows mitigate differences in welfare that can accompany economic concentration. It emphasizes movements of labor,
especially, for two reasons. First, although
many countries and regions are still thirsty
for investment, national reforms and international agreements since the 1970s have
eliminated most restrictions on the flow of
capital. The scarcity of capital in some places
now has less to do with actual barriers and
more to do with unfavorable investment

conditions.2 In a globalizing economy capital is mobile and will move quickly. Labor,
by contrast, tends to be less mobile for cultural and linguistic reasons. Second, a strong
policy consensus supports the free flow of
capital for foreign direct investment, even if
this consensus is not always fully manifested
in the policies of the many countries where
external and internal obstacles remain.
Relative to capital, labor is subject to more
political restrictions and to explicit and
implicit barriers. Some novel insights come
from considering agglomeration economies
and human capital together. Based on these
insights, this chapter makes a case for facilitating the voluntary movement of people.
Textbooks teach us that the factors of
production—capital and labor—move
to places where they will earn the highest
returns, and that these are the places where
each factor is scarce. But by recognizing that
increasing returns to scale are important,
policies can be made better. Unlike unskilled
labor and physical and fi nancial capital,
skilled labor—embodying human capital,
a person’s education, and endowment of
skills and talent—earns higher economic
returns where it is abundant, not scant. This
explains the clustering of talented people
in cities, the migration of entrepreneurs
to leading areas within countries, and the
rising number of skilled migrants moving
to wealthy countries, all places where their
skills seem plentiful but are nonetheless
highly rewarded. Recognizing the growing
benefits to human capital in areas where it
has already accumulated changes the thinking about how governments should try to

10/10/08 9:36:00 AM

Factor Mobility and Migration

raise growth and achieve spatial convergence in living standards.
But policy makers in many developing
countries—particularly in South Asia and in
Sub-Saharan Africa—have been conditioned
by an early literature on migration to worry
about the specter of rising urban unemployment, overburdened city services, social tensions in economically vibrant areas, and a
“brain drain.” As a result, many countries still
restrict the movement of people. Yet direct
and indirect restrictions, although not effective at stemming the flow of people, create
unnecessary friction and impose the cost of
forgone opportunities for economic growth
and convergence in living standards.
Although researchers are now less skeptical about the benefits of labor migration, policy makers in both developing
and developed countries are not so sure.
What can they learn from each other? This
chapter documents the disconnect between
the implications of recent research and
the migration policies in developing and
developed countries, showing how they are
changing.
Keep in mind three points:

•

•

The facts about labor migration can be
surprising. Although international migration still captures the greatest attention in
the media, by far the largest flows of people
are between places in the same country,
and not from villages to cities, but from
economically lagging to leading rural
areas.3 Although the movement of people
to cities is on the rise, particularly in South
and East Asia, the most sustained pattern of
internal mobility within developing countries has been from lagging rural areas,
like Western Kenya and Bihar in India, to
leading rural areas in those countries, like
the Central Highlands and Punjab, and a
large share of this migration is temporary.4
And when people move across national
borders, they do not go far.5 Most international migration takes place within world
regional “neighborhoods,” particularly
between developing countries.6
Movements of capital and labor are
driven by the benefits of agglomeration.
Early migration theories were based on
surplus labor, fi xed “exogenous” rates
of growth, and job creation—and these

WDR09_11_Ch05.indd 147

•

147

theories viewed the outmigration of
skilled people as both socially traumatic
and an economic loss. New theories recognize that migration, when driven by
economic forces, is a positive and selective process. The interactions between
agglomeration and labor migration
power places forward.
The policy challenge is not how to keep
households from moving, but how to
keep them from moving for the wrong
reasons. Instead of trying to fight the pull
of agglomeration economies on workers
and their families, governments should
work to eliminate the factors that push
people out of their home areas. By doing
so they can improve the quality of migration and encourage economic growth.
Labor mobility driven by economic reasons leads to greater concentration of
people and talent in places of choice and
adds more to agglomeration benefits in
these places than to congestion costs.

From mercantilism to globalization
to autarky, and back again
Restrictions on the flow of capital, labor,
and goods fragmented the world economy
between the two world wars, but globalization
picked up speed after the end of the Cold War
in 1990, loosening the restrictions and integrating the world economy. Capital mobility within and across countries increased.
International labor mobility—particularly
unskilled labor—declined after the mass
movements in the nineteenth century and
only recently began to rise. But the mobility
of people within countries has accelerated.
So, for the movement of labor over the last
century, distance has diminished, but divisions not only have increased (many more
borders) but indeed may have become more
obstructive (many more restrictions).

Capital flows—up sharply since the 1970s
The mobility of capital across borders, particularly investment capital, has increased
since the 1970s. The world is returning to
an age of capital mobility abandoned at the
onset of World War I. From 1880 to 1914, a
growing share of the world economy operated under the classic gold standard and a
global financial market centered in London.

10/10/08 9:36:01 AM

148

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

The gold-standard fixed exchange rates and
underpinned a stable and credible regime
that enforced discipline on countries. Interest
rates tended to converge and capital to flow
with relative ease across borders, constrained
only by the limits of technology. Many rapidly
industrializing countries outside Europe—in
the Americas and in Asia—took part in an
increasingly global economy.7
The fluid economic environment was
destroyed by two world wars and the global
economic retraction in between. From 1914
to 1945, monetary policy was used to pursue

national aims, domestic policy goals, and
“beggar-thy-neighbor” trade strategies that
encouraged strict capital controls. International capital flows petered out, and investment from abroad was viewed with suspicion.
So prices and interest rates across countries fell
out of sync. Even during the Bretton Woods
era from the end of World War II to 1971,
as countries attempted to rebuild the global
economy, fears of mobile capital that had
taken hold during the interwar years proved
difficult to dispel. Indeed, capital controls
were sanctioned to prevent currency crises.

Figure 5.1 International capital flows have surged since the 1970s
Gross private capital flows
Percentage of GDP
35
World

30

Sub-Saharan Africa

Middle East & North Africa
Europe & Central Asia

25

South Asia
Latin America & Caribbean

East Asia & Pacific

20
15
10
5
0
1970

1975

1980

1985

1990

1995

2000

2005

Year
Source: World Bank 2007j.

Figure 5.2 A large share of capital now flows as direct investment
Foreign direct investment, net inflows
Percentage of GDP
5.0
World
Sub-Saharan Africa
South Asia
4.5
Middle East & North Africa
Latin America & Caribbean
4.0
Europe & Central Asia
East Asia & Pacific
3.5
3.0
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
1970

1975

1980

1985

1990

1995

2000

2005

Year
Source: World Bank 2007j.

WDR09_11_Ch05.indd 148

10/16/08 9:49:18 AM

149

Factor Mobility and Migration

But the growing volume of trade made
it difficult to constrain the flow of capital,
and in the early 1970s, the constraints began
to loosen. Fixed exchange rates were abandoned, creating an international economic
environment that could accommodate capital flows and market development. Political
stability, structural reforms, and regulatory structures lowered the risks to foreign
investment in developing countries, and
capital markets responded with enthusiasm
(see figures 5.1 and 5.2). By 2000, capital
mobility returned to levels seen in 1914.8
Capital has become the most mobile factor of production. Converging real interest
rates, declining spreads between deposit and
lending rates, and shrinking risk premiums
on the sovereign debt of developing countries are evidence of an international environment in which capital can go where it
wants to, even if it does not always go where
people wish it would. Indeed, recent comparisons of the marginal product of capital
between high-income and lower-income
countries show little evidence of friction
preventing the flow of capital to poor countries. Instead, the lower capital ratios in poor
countries are explained by lower efficiency
and a lack of complementary factors.9

Labor flows across borders—blocked for
much of the twentieth century
In a pattern similar to that of capital flows,
from a peak in the late-nineteenth century, the mobility of labor across borders
declined for most of the twentieth century,
with the rise of economic barriers at the
onset of the Great Depression and World
War II. Geographers have long recorded
the movement of humankind, from the
earliest migrations out of Africa to Europe
and Asia,10 to the resurgence of movement
across borders. They categorize the modern
history of international migration into four
distinct periods: mercantile, industrial,
autarkic, and postindustrial.11
During the mercantile period, from 1500
to 1800, the movement of people around the
world was dominated by Europeans. Agrarian
settlers, administrators, artisans, entrepreneurs, and convicts emigrated out of Europe
in large numbers. During the industrial
period that followed—sometimes referred to
as the first period of economic globalization,

WDR09_11_Ch05.indd 149

an estimated 48 million emigrants, between
10 and 20 percent of the population, left
Europe (see table 5.1).12 Unlike international
migration today, the movement of people
across borders in the first and second periods
of labor migration was not driven by a lack
of economic growth or development in the
sending countries. Indeed, the first country to industrialize and the most advanced
at the turn of the twentieth century—Great
Britain—was by far the largest sending country. Economic analysis shows a positive correlation between emigration and the extent of
industrialization in the sending country.13
A long period of autarky and economic
nationalism began in 1910. Unprecedented
restrictions were placed on trade, investment,
and immigration, stifling the international
movement of capital and labor. The trickle
of international migrants consisted mainly
of refugees and displaced persons, unrelated
to economic development.
The postindustrial period of migration
began in the 1960s, characterized by new
Table 5.1 In the late-nineteenth century most international migrants came from better-off Europe
Top sending countries in 1900 and 2000
Top emigrant-sending
countries in 1900

Percentage of
sending country’s
population in 1900

Top emigrantsending countries
in 2000

Percentage of
sending country’s
population in 2000

British Isles

40.9

Mexico

Norway

35.9

Afghanistan

9.9

Portugal

30.1

Morocco

9.0

Italy

29.2

United Kingdom

7.1

Spain

23.2

Algeria

6.7

Sweden

22.3

Italy

5.7

Denmark

14.2

Bangladesh

5.0

Switzerland

13.3

Germany

4.9

Finland

12.9

Turkey

4.5

Austria-Hungary

10.4

10.0

Philippines

4.3

Germany

8.0

Egypt, Arab Rep. of

3.5

Netherlands

3.9

Pakistan

2.4

Belgium

2.6

India

0.9

Russian
Federation–Poland

United States

0.8

2.0

China

0.5

France

1.3

Europe

12.3

Japan

0.9
Total (of countries
listed)

1.9

Total (Europe and Japan)

11.1

Sources: Massey 1988, Parsons and others 2007, in Ozden and Schiff 2007.

10/10/08 9:36:02 AM

150

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

forms, no longer dominated by flows out of
Europe. People began to move from lowerincome countries to wealthy countries, with
a surge in migrant labor from Latin America,
Africa, and Asia. In the 1970s, countries that
had been major sources of migrating labor
to Northern Europe and the Americas—
such as Italy, Portugal, and Spain—began
to receive immigrants from Africa and the
Middle East. The growing wealth of oil-rich
countries in the late 1970s made economies
in the Persian Gulf new destinations. And by
the 1980s, migration to East Asian countries
spread beyond Japan to Hong Kong, China;
the Republic of Korea; Malaysia; Singapore;
Taiwan, China; and Thailand.
Today, about 200 million people are foreign born, roughly 3 percent of the world
population.14 The flows of new international migrants have varied—from a
2-percent increase between 1970 and 1980,
to 4.3 percent from 1980 to 1990, and to
1.3 percent from 1990 to 2000. Poor and
middle-income countries now send the
most emigrants, led by Bangladesh, China,
the Arab Republic of Egypt, India, Mexico,
Morocco, Pakistan, the Philippines, and
Turkey (see table 5.1). But Italy, Germany,
and the United Kingdom still rank near

the top, each accounting for between 3
million and 4 million emigrants.
The volume and flow of international
migration is no longer mainly associated
with population growth or demographic
pressure. Unlike the 1960s and 1970s,
international immigrants are not from
the poorest, least developed countries.
Voluntary international movements of
people tend to originate from countries
with rapidly growing economies and falling fertility rates. Emigration today is the
outcome less of desperation and more of
integration.15
The pattern of international migration is
also shifting, from South-North to SouthSouth.16 Although the top three receiving
countries are members of the Organisation
for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)—the United States, Germany, and France, in that order—Côte
d’Ivoire, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran,
Jordan, and Pakistan are now among the
top 15 destinations. But migration of labor
from the low- and middle-income countries
of the South to the wealthy countries of the
North is still large, 37 percent of international migrants in 2000. Movement between
Northern countries made up 16 percent of

Table 5.2 Close to home: the largest international flows of labor are between neighboring countries
Percentage of world migrants recorded as a bilateral movement between pairs of countries/regions, circa 2000
Destination countries/regions
Countries/
regions of origin

Canada

UE15 &
EFTA

AU &
NZ

USA

Japan

HI
MENA

USA

LAC

ECA

MENA

AFR

EAP

SAS

Total

n.a.

0.16

0.34

0.04

0.02

0.03

0.43

0.04

0.05

0.03

0.15

0.02

1.29

Canada

0.54

n.a.

0.10

0.02

n.a.

0.01

0.02

0.01

n.a.

0.01

0.01

0.01

0.74

EU15 & EFTA

2.22

0.98

5.59

1.13

0.01

0.14

0.68

0.78

0.16

0.39

0.20

0.19

12.47

AU and NZ

0.06

0.02

0.16

0.23

n.a.

n.a.

n.a.

0.01

n.a.

0.01

0.03

0.01

0.55

Japan

0.28

0.02

0.06

0.02

n.a.

n.a.

0.04

0.01

n.a.

n.a.

0.05

0.01

0.50

HI MENA

0.10

0.03

0.06

0.01

n.a.

0.12

n.a.

0.02

0.72

0.01

0.04

0.03

1.14

LAC

10.22

0.36

1.45

0.05

0.13

0.10

2.07

0.17

0.08

0.14

0.14

0.25

15.15

ECA

1.27

0.39

4.75

0.26

n.a.

0.92

0.07

16.98

0.33

0.34

0.18

0.41

25.88

MENA

0.47

0.17

2.85

0.10

n.a.

1.49

0.04

0.16

1.79

0.28

0.05

0.12

7.52

AFR

0.41

0.12

1.58

0.10

n.a.

0.25

0.02

0.11

0.18

7.00

0.03

0.16

9.97

EAP

3.32

0.71

1.09

0.63

0.54

0.48

0.06

0.14

0.14

0.09

3.86

0.27

11.32

SAS

0.83

0.31

1.13

0.12

0.01

2.66

0.02

0.13

2.07

0.14

0.37

5.67

13.46

Total

19.71

3.25

19.14

2.72

0.74

6.22

3.45

18.56

5.53

8.44

5.10

7.15

100

Source: Parsons, Skeldon, Walmsley, and Winters 2007.
Notes: AFR = Africa; AU = Australia; EAP = East Asia and Pacific; ECA = Europe and Central Asia; EU15 = European Union 15; EFTA = European Free Trade Association;
HI MENA = High-income countries in the Middle East and North Africa region; LAC = Latin America and the Caribbean; NZ = New Zealand; SAS = South Asia; n.a. = not applicable.

WDR09_11_Ch05.indd 150

10/10/08 9:36:02 AM

151

Factor Mobility and Migration

migration and that between Southern countries accounted for 24 percent, with Argentina, China, Côte d’Ivoire, India, the Islamic
Republic of Iran, Jordan, Pakistan, and
South Africa as important destinations.
There is a strong tendency for labor to
move between countries in the same world
neighborhoods, particularly for SouthSouth migration (see table 5.2). Migration
of labor is usually from countries with a
shared land border.17 While only 30 percent

of immigrants to the United States, 20 percent to France, and 10 percent to Germany
come from countries with which they share
a border, 81 percent of immigrants to Côte
d’Ivoire, 99 percent to the Islamic Republic
of Iran, and 93 percent to India are from
neighboring countries.
International migrants tend to stay
within regional neighborhoods, particularly
in developing world regions, most notably in
Sub-Saharan Africa (see figure 5.3). Almost

Figure 5.3 Migrants from East Asia, Latin America, and the Middle East and North Africa go mainly to OECD countries, but most in South Asia and
Sub-Saharan Africa stay close to home
Destination of emigrants from countries in East Asia & Pacific
Percent
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0

OECD
countries

Other
high-income
countries

Within
region

Other
developing
countries

Unidentified
countries

Destination of emigrants from countries in Latin America & Caribbean
Percent
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0

OECD
countries

Other
high-income
countries

Within
region

Other
developing
countries

Unidentified
countries

Destination of emigrants from countries in South Asia
Percent
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0

OECD
countries

Other
high-income
countries

Within
region

Other
developing
countries

Unidentified
countries

Destination of emigrants from countries in Europe & Central Asia
Percent
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0

OECD
countries

Other
high-income
countries

Within
region

Other
developing
countries

Unidentified
countries

Destination of emigrants from countries in Middle East & North Africa
Percent
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0

OECD
countries

Other
high-income
countries

Within
region

Other
developing
countries

Unidentified
countries

Destination of emigrants from countries in Sub-Saharan Africa
Percent
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0

OECD
countries

Other
high-income
countries

Within
region

Other
developing
countries

Unidentified
countries

Source: Ratha and Xu 2008.

WDR09_11_Ch05.indd 151

10/10/08 9:36:03 AM

152

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

B OX 5.1

Regional labor mobility has been falling in Sub-Saharan Africa

The rate of labor migration within developing regions is highest in Sub-Saharan
Africa, but it has fallen since the 1960s.
More than 60 percent of emigrants from
Sub-Saharan countries move to other
countries in the region. The higher rate of
labor movement within the region relative to other developing world regions is
partly a consequence of the large number
of land borders, but also of the relative
permeability of these borders and the difficulty of monitoring the flow of people
crossing them, despite numerous legal
restrictions.
Migrants represented just over 3.5
percent of the population in Sub-Saharan
Africa in 1960 but only 2.3 percent by
2000. In 1960 the stock of migrants relative to the population was much higher in
Southern Africa than in other corners of
the region, but it has since fallen to about
the level of migrants in Western Africa
(see the table below). In Eastern Africa
and Central Africa the stock of migrants
has fallen significantly.
Voluntary migration across borders
in Sub-Saharan Africa is motivated by
the same reasons that prompt people

to move within a country: to pursue job
opportunities and to diversify risks to
income. Indeed, the economic rationale
for movement from a lagging to a leading
area of the same country is virtually indistinguishable from that for moving across
a border in a region like Sub-Saharan
Africa, where these movements are over
relatively small distances and for the most
part unmonitored. But many migrants
also move across borders within a framework of formal agreements between
countries. Since the 1960s, a web of
bilateral and multilateral agreements has
grown in an attempt to reap the benefits
and control the costs of labor mobility
within subregional neighborhoods.
In West Africa governments have
attempted to manage population movements within the Economic Community
of West African States (ECOWAS), which
has had the most influence on the flow
and composition of migration in SubSaharan Africa. Established in 1975,
ECOWAS includes a protocol allowing the
free movement of people and the right
of residence and establishment for the
citizens of its member countries.

Sub-Saharan Africa’s stock of migrants has fallen since 1960
Per 1,000 population, by regional neighborhood
Neighborhood

1960

1970

1980

1990

2000

Eastern Africa

37.3

31.6

35.3

31.2

17.9

Central Africa

40.7

44.2

35.9

20.6

16.0

Southern Africa

49.7

40.6

33.3

34.5

30.6

Western Africa

28.0

27.3

34.6

28.5

30.0

Sub-Saharan Africa

35.6

32.8

35.0

29.0

23.0

Source: UN Population Division, in Lucas 2006.

17 percent of recorded international migration around 2000 occurred within Europe
and Central Asia, though a large part of this
resulted from border changes and changes
in the definition of who was “foreign born”
in these countries. The second highest rate
of labor mobility between countries in the
same region was for Sub-Saharan Africa (see
box 5.1).
Cross-border migration within subregional neighborhoods flows to countries that

WDR09_11_Ch05.indd 152

The Southern African Development
Community (SADC), a loose alliance of
nine countries of Southern Africa formed
in 1980, coordinated development projects to lessen economic dependence on
South Africa during the Apartheid era.
Part of this alliance was a provision for the
flow of labor between member countries.
The recent anti-immigrant violence in
South Africa is a setback for regional integration and migration.
Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda have
formed the East African Community (EAC),
a regional intergovernmental organization for interterritorial cooperation with
roots extending to 1948 before independence. The EAC, gaining strength as a
framework for economic integration since
1999, recently introduced East African
passports and temporary passes to speed
the movement of labor.
The movement of labor across borders
in Sub-Saharan Africa’s neighborhoods
could be encouraged. During economic
contractions, policy makers in these neighborhoods feel the same xenophobic political pressures as governments in rich countries do to favor native workers and ration
public services to nonnatives. Less than
one-third of governments in Sub-Saharan
Africa have ratified the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of
All Migrant Workers and Members of Their
Families. To really reap the benefits from
labor mobility for faster economic growth
with convergence across Sub-Saharan Africa’s regional neighborhoods, much more
can be done to welcome migrants and
open channels for the flow of remittances
to their home countries.
Source: Lucas 2006.

act as economic engines of growth in developing regions—to Côte d’Ivoire in West
Africa, to South Africa in Southern Africa,
to Thailand from countries in the Greater
Mekong Region in South Asia (see box 5.2),
and to Argentina from Bolivia, Chile, Paraguay, and Peru. Distance is not the whole
story. Divisions, in the form of language and
culture, also determine the pattern of international migration, with more than half of
migrations occurring between countries

10/10/08 9:36:03 AM

153

Factor Mobility and Migration

with a common language. Of course, a common language and other cultural factors
reinforce the neighborhood effects.
Immediately after World War II—when
economies were growing rapidly, wage
inequality was falling, and the volume of
labor movement across borders was low—
international migration was not really a
thorny political issue. But after 1975—as
growth in high-income countries slowed,
wage inequality increased, and the volume
of international migrants swelled—immigration became a heated topic of debate in
electoral politics. Indeed, selective “managed immigration” policies first introduced
in Australia and Canada in the 1980s are
becoming popular in other high-income
destination countries.18
With the return to globalization since
the end of the Cold War, the movement of
labor across borders resumed, but governments still restrict the number and influence the characteristics of immigrants. This
contrasts sharply with the “first era of globalization” in the nineteenth century, when
the flows of labor were free of obstruction.
Restrictions on immigration arise and are
sustained by wage inequality in receiving
countries, rather than by unemployment
or absolute wages. They are more likely to
be tightened when international labor flows
increase and to be loosened in periods of
domestic support for trade.19

Internal labor mobility—growing
rapidly, despite restrictions
With improvements in transport technology and infrastructure, the mobility
of labor within countries rose steadily
throughout the twentieth century, accelerating in its last two decades. The volume and velocity of internal voluntary
migration, of concern to policy makers for
decades, are growing despite predictions to
the contrary.20 Declining agriculture and
rising manufacturing have changed the
distribution of labor in low-income and
emerging middle-income countries since
the mid-twentieth century in South Asia
and Sub-Saharan Africa, and long before
in East Asia and Latin America. Migration
of labor from lagging to leading rural areas
remains the dominant internal movement

WDR09_11_Ch05.indd 153

B OX 5 . 2

Cross-border migration in the Greater Mekong
Subregion

The Greater Mekong Subregion
(GMS), with 315 million people, comprises Cambodia, the Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, Myanmar, Thailand, Vietnam, and the Guangxi and
Yunnan provinces of China. Despite
marked disparities in economic
development among its members,
the subregion is extremely dynamic,
with annual growth rates averaging
above 6 percent in recent years.
Thailand’s higher wages, faster
growth, and more favorable social
and political climate attract people
trying to escape poverty in Cambodia,
Lao PDR, and Myanmar. For Thailand
the migrants are a reservoir of cheap
and flexible labor and a boost to its
competitiveness in some sectors. And
Thailand alone is estimated to have 1.5
million to 2 million regular and irregular migrants from the GMS. Removing
them could reduce Thailand’s GDP by
around 0.5 percentage points a year.
By some estimates, more than half
of migrants enter Thailand holding
legal documentation and then overstay, becoming illegal. Migrants are
disproportionately young, of working
age, and male. Those from Myanmar
are, on average, less educated and less
literate than the average for the populations of origin, indicating a push to
migrate, or negative self-selection.
But self-selection is positive among
migrants from Cambodia, who have
slightly higher education attainment
than the population back home.

Remittances from Thailand to
Cambodia, Lao PDR, and Myanmar
are estimated at $177 million to $315
million a year. In Cambodia they
are important for 91 percent of the
households interviewed in one of the
main sending provinces.
Much of this migration, however,
will remain irregular and unregulated, increasing the vulnerability
of migrants, the majority of whom
do not use social services because
they fear deportation. One of the
biggest problems is ensuring access
to schooling for children, who also
suffer from a lack of health care.
For the same reasons that migrant
adults rarely receive health treatment, migrant children rarely receive
vaccinations.
Despite the benefits of labor mobility, facilitating legal flows of people
has been slow. Sending countries
generally lack the capacity to manage the mass export of labor and to
protect the rights of their nationals
abroad. Receiving countries have
fairly weak migration frameworks,
often implemented hastily as an
“after-the-fact” response to large
numbers of migrants. The absence of
an adequate legal and policy framework, typical of regional neighborhoods in developing country regions,
increases the costs (and risks) of
migration and reduces its benefits.
Source: World Bank 2006e.

in most of the developing world, 21 except
in Latin America, where movements
between cities dominate.22 Rural-to-rural
migration, difficult to document, has been
largely ignored.23
Migration from rural areas to cities has
been gaining importance since the mid1970s, especially in the urbanizing economies of South and East Asia, with the rapid
rise of manufacturing and services. In
India, where movements from poor to rich

10/10/08 9:36:04 AM

154

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

From facilitating to restricting to (again) facilitating labor mobility in China

B OX 5.3

In the second half of the twentieth century, China undertook some of the most
active internal migration policies ever
observed, initially to great economic
benefit, but increasingly to the detriment
of growth and development. Now, these
policies are changing again.
In the 1950s the government sought
to stimulate industrialization through
policies that encouraged rapid urbanization. Households were given incentives
to move to cities, and rural workers
responded en masse, answering the
demand to participate in reconstruction
and industrial development. As a result
of these efforts, the urban population of
China had by 1953 grown by a third, to 78
million. The first Five-Year Plan (1953–58)
promoted urban development, creating
forces that pulled people to the cities,
complemented by the collectivization of
agriculture and the establishment of the
commune system.
In apparent response to a larger-thanexpected flow from villages, the government tried to stem the flow, centralizing
hiring, restricting travel, and rationing
grain in cities. But these measures failed to
slow the outflow of Chinese rural workers,
and the pressure on cities grew so much
that the government mobilized to move

millions back to the countryside. Then,
with the Great Leap Forward (1958–60),
the government abandoned all attempts
to control the flow of labor, again seeking to accelerate industrial development,
motivating another surge of workers to
China’s cities. By 1960 China’s urban population had doubled from that in 1949.
In the 1960s and first half of the 1970s,
the urban population fell, a consequence
of the relocation of intellectuals and
urban elites to the countryside during the
Cultural Revolution (1966–76). Then, with
an abrupt shift in policy in 1976, the flow
of people to the cities surged anew.
In the early 1980s the government
became particularly preoccupied with the
speed of urbanization. Although rural-tourban migration was responsible for only
20 percent of the growth of China’s cities
from 1949 to 1980, evidence of burdened
infrastructure and services in Shanghai
and Beijing occupied the attention of
policy makers.
The hukou household registration system
became the main policy tool to regulate the
flow of workers. It has four tenets:
• Migration, especially to urban areas,
should be allowed only if compatible
with economic development.

• Rural-to-urban migration must be controlled strictly.
• Movements between settlements of
similar population size need not be
controlled.
• Flows from larger to smaller settlements or between rural areas should be
encouraged.
Under the hukou, each individual has
an official place of residence, and the
documents verifying residence are similar
to a passport. People are allowed to work
legally, to receive social security benefits
including health coverage, and to access
food rations only in their place of residence. A change in official place of residence can be granted only by permission,
similar to a local authority granting a visa.
But some forms of legal temporary migration would be allowed to meet shifts in
labor demand.
As the government’s preoccupation
with the size of China’s cities and the
pace of urban growth changed, the
hukou was tightened or loosened—for
example, by relaxing the residency
requirement to receive food rations
or extending the rights of temporary
migrants. Despite the controls, lax

China’s industrial growth and concentration has been accompanied by massive movements of workers
Internal labor migration between 1995–2000
Migration from
western region
to
coastal region

Migration from
central region
to
coastal region

Migration within the
coastal region
HEILONGJIANG

JILIN

WESTERN
REGION
LIAONING
ONG

NEI M

OL

Beijing

TIANJIN

HEBEI

NINGX

IA

COASTAL
REGION

SHANXI

Beijing

TIANJIN

TIANJIN
HEBEI

Migration totals

JIANGSU

SHANGHAI

ON
GQ

IN
G

SHAANXI

COASTAL
REGION

GUIZHOU

YUNNAN

JIANGSU

HENAN

JIANGSU
ANHUI

SHANGHAI

HUBEI

ZHEJIANG

CH

SICHUAN

ZHEJIANG
HUNAN

COASTAL
REGION

TAIWAN

2,000,000
SHANGHAI

1,000,000

ZHEJIANG

500,000
250,000
100,000

COASTAL
REGION
FUJIAN

TAIWAN

GUANGDONG

TAIWAN
GUANGDONG

GUANGDONG
HONG KONG
MACAO

HONG KONG
MACAO

HAINAN

JIANGXI

FUJIAN

FUJIAN

GUANGXI

COASTAL

SHANDONG

SHANDONG

SHANDONG

GANSU

WESTERN
REGION

LIAONING
BEIJING

BEIJING

Beijing

HEBEI

QINGHAI

LIAONING

BEIJING

HAINAN

HONG KONG
MACAO

HAINAN

Source: Huang and Luo forthcoming, using data from the Population Census of China.

WDR09_11_Ch05.indd 154

10/10/08 9:36:04 AM

155

Factor Mobility and Migration

B OX 5.3

From facilitating to restricting to (again) facilitating labor mobility in China—continued

enforcement allowed large flows of
migrant workers to settle in cities under
“temporary” status. Indeed, in the past
30 years, the labor force requirements to
fuel China’s spectacular growth performance have relied on migrants who are
temporary under law but in fact permanent residents.
Today the movement of people from
rural areas to cities is again surging.
One in five rural workers migrates, and
migrants account for a third of urban
employment. In 2005 average incomes in
cities were three times the rural average.
The mechanization of farming has added

to the pool of surplus labor. And China’s
industries are in constant need of lowcost labor.
Recognizing the growth dividend from
allowing labor to flow freely, the government has been loosening the hukou in
recent years, even facilitating migration.
Migration restrictions have declined. The
labor market has become more efficient.
And mobility decisions are much more
responsive to economic factors.a Beginning with pilot programs in selected
municipalities, migrants from rural areas
will be given access to health and social
protection services, training, labor market

rural agricultural areas have historically
been the dominant form of internal migration, movements from villages to cities have
increased sharply in recent years. Migration from the poor Indian state of Bihar
has doubled since the 1970s, mainly to cities, and not to the agriculturally prosperous states in India’s Northwest, as before.
In Bangladesh two-thirds of all migration
from rural areas is to cities. And in China,
with the easing of residency restrictions,
migration from rural areas to cities now
predominates (see box 5.3).
Uniform measures of internal migration
are rare. Because there are so few household
surveys that regularly measure labor mobility, and the questions asked about migration vary, comparable indicators can be
calculated for only a few countries. Questions about migration are more likely to
be asked in countries that experience large
movements of labor and with governments
that are concerned about migration. Among
the countries included in table 5.3, for
example, are stable nations (such as Argentina and Costa Rica), where migration is
more likely to reflect economic motives, as
well as countries that have recently experienced confl ict (such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Democratic Republic of Congo,
Rwanda, and Sierra Leone), where internal
mobility is also due to flight from the threat
of violence.

WDR09_11_Ch05.indd 155

information, and job search assistance,
and recourse to legal action in cases of
employer abuse.
Recent research suggests that the
restrictions have taken a toll: many Chinese cities are smaller than they should
be.b In many areas, such as Chengdu and
Chongqing, governments are again facilitating a rapid rural-urban migration (see
chapter 7).

Source: WDR 2009 team.
a. Poncet 2006.
b. Au and Henderson 2006a.

Skills—the motor of internal and
international migration
A rush of labor matching the migrations out
of Europe at the turn of the twentieth century has not yet taken place, and perhaps it
never will. But unlike the flow of unskilled
labor, that of skilled labor—with human
capital—has been on the rise. Globalization
and selective migration policies are likely to
ease travel for skilled labor within countries
and across borders.
Within countries, education attainment
continues to determine who moves and
who does not—certainly from rural areas
to cities. People with more education are
more likely to migrate in their own country
(see figures 5.4 and 5.5).24 Many temporary,
seasonal migrants with little or no education also migrate.25 But education boosts
the velocity of labor mobility, by opening
employment opportunities farther afield
and shortening the job search at migrants’
destination.26
Education also increases the likelihood
of people moving abroad. The international migration of skilled workers relative to that of unskilled workers has been
rising since the 1970s for every developing
world region (see figure 5.6). The highest proportions of skilled emigrants (as
a percentage of the educated workforce)
are from Africa, the Caribbean, and Central America. Many Central American

10/10/08 9:36:07 AM

156

Table 5.3

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Rates of labor mobility vary widely across countries in the developing world
Internal
migrants
(% of
working-age
population)

Recent migrants
(less than five
years, % of total
working-age
population)

Recent
migrants
(% of internal
migrants)

Bosnia and
Herzegovina 2001

52.5

12.8

24.5

Paraguay 2001

39.0

7.3

18.7

Bolivia 2005

37.7

5.0

13.3

Morocco 1998

33.4

6.0

18.1

Azerbaijan 1995

33.2

19.4

Honduras 2003

29.0

Venezuela, R. B. de
2004

28.3

Country and year of
survey (ranked by
stock of migrants)

Congo, Dem. Rep.
of 2005

27.1

Country and year of
survey (ranked by
stock of migrants)

Internal
migrants
(% of
working-age
population)

Recent migrants
(less than five
years, % of total
working-age
population)

Recent
migrants
(% of internal
migrants)

Costa Rica 2001

19.9

2.5

12.4

Brazil 2001

19.5

3.3

16.7

Sierra Leone 2003

19.0

3.7

19.3

Nicaragua 2001

18.6

3.1

16.9

Guatemala 2006

17.5

3.3

19.1

58.4

Haiti 2001

17.5

2.8

15.8

5.5

19.2

Argentina 2006

17.2

1.4

8.1

3.0

10.7

Kyrgyz Republic 1997

16.2

4.7

29.2

Romania 1994

15.1

1.9

12.8

Croatia 2004

14.7

1.2

8.0

Bulgaria 2001

14.3

1.4

10.0

7.8

28.9

Dominican Republic
2004

26.9

4.0

14.9

Cambodia 2004

14.2

2.8

19.4

Armenia 1999

24.5

22.4

91.7

Tajikistan 2003

9.9

1.5

15.7

Mauritania 2000

24.2

2.9

12.0

Mongolia 2002

9.8

0.0

0.4

Albania 2005

23.9

4.1

17.3

Kazakhstan 1996

9.3

1.4

14.7

Ecuador 2004

22.7

5.3

23.4

Madagascar 2001

9.3

0.0

0.0

Vietnam 1992

21.9

3.1

14.3

Mozambique 1996

8.1

0.0

0.2

Rwanda 1997

21.5

5.9

27.6

Malawi 2005

2.7

1.1

43.2

Colombia 1995

20.1

5.3

26.3

Micronesia 2000

1.2

0.3

23.6

Source: WDR 2009 team, estimates using household surveys.
Note: Internal migrants are individuals who are not living in the same district in which they were born. This definition does not count returnees as migrants—that is, persons who
moved away from their place of birth in the past, but returned by the time of the survey. Recent migrants migrated in the five years before the year of the survey.

Figure 5.4 In Latin America and the Caribbean internal migrants are more educated than those who stay
behind
Education comparison between internal migrants and nonmigrants at place of origin and at time of migration
Percentage
40
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
Costa Rica Honduras

Venezuela,
R.B. de

Migrants, primary
Nonmigrants, primary

Paraguay

Guatemala Nicaragua Dominican
Republic

Education level attained
Migrants, secondary
Nonmigrants, secondary

Brazil

Haiti

Migrants, post-secondary
Nonmigrants, post-secondary

Source: WDR 2009 team drawing from selected household surveys.

WDR09_11_Ch05.indd 156

10/10/08 9:36:07 AM

157

Factor Mobility and Migration

and island nations in the Caribbean had
more than half their university-educated
citizens living abroad in 2000. And close
to 20 percent of skilled workers have left
Sub-Saharan Africa.27 This could be taken
as evidence that human capital is becoming more mobile internationally—or that
“selective” immigration policies in wealthy
countries are biasing the composition of
international migration toward those with
skills. But the increase in the migration of
skilled labor is due to the rise in higher
levels of education worldwide, most notably for countries sending the majority of
international migrants. In relative terms,
the cross-border movement of skilled labor
has remained fairly constant as a share of
the stock of skilled labor in sending countries. Rather than human capital becoming more mobile, more human capital is
simply available, propelling larger volumes
of migration.28
The rapid development of telecommunications and other forms of information
and communication technology has separated the mobility of human capital from
the mobility of labor. In a trend likely
to accelerate, more services in the production processes of industries based in
wealthy countries are being located “offshore” in low- and middle-income countries, where human capital is cheaper.
What began with the export of software
development and maintenance services
from the Indian city of Bangalore to
firms across the world has developed into
a burgeoning trade in services requiring
a wide array of skills, from simple customer communications—particularly
from countries like India and the Philippines, where English is widely spoken—to
financial accounting and computer maintenance. There is, as yet, no evidence that
the export of “disembodied” human
capital over telephone lines and the Internet will substitute for the f low of skilled
workers. But by creating the possibility
of separating human capital from labor,
information and communication technology has further increased the mobility
of skills relative to people.

WDR09_11_Ch05.indd 157

Figure 5.5 Internal migrants are more schooled than workers in the places to which they move
Comparison between internal migrant and nonmigrant workers at migrant’s place of destination
Tajikistan
Colombia
Venezuela, R.B. de
Albania
Congo, Rep. of

Nonmigrant, primary completed
Migrant, primary completed
Nonmigrant, secondary completed
Migrant, secondary completed

Croatia
Mongolia
Malawi
Brazil
Vietnam
Argentina
Micronesia
Haiti
Bolivia
Dominican Republic
Kyrgyz Republic
Paraguay
Bulgaria
Madagascar
Costa Rica
Guatemala
Honduras
Nicaragua
Cambodia
Mozambique
0

10

20

30

40

50

60

70

80

90

100

Percentage
Source: WDR 2009 team drawing from selected household surveys.

10/10/08 9:36:08 AM

158

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Figure 5.6

Migration from developing countries is becoming more skilled
Sub-Saharan Africa
Percentage of emigrants
100

Latin America & Caribbean
Percentage of emigrants
100

80

80
60
40
20

60

Low skill

40

Medium skill

20

Highly skilled

0

0
1975

1980

1985 1990
Year

1995

1975

2000

1980

1985 1990
Year

1995

2000

Middle East & North Africa
Percentage of emigrants
100

Europe & Central Asia
Percentage of emigrants
100
80

80

60

60

40

40

20

20
0

0
1975

1980

1985 1990
Year

1995

1975

2000

East Asia & Pacific
Percentage of emigrants
100

1980

1985 1990
Year

1995

2000

1995

2000

South Asia
Percentage of emigrants
100

80

80

60

60

40

40

20

20

0

0
1975

1980

1985 1990
Year

1995

2000

1975

1980

1985 1990
Year

Source: Docquier 2006.

Labor mobility: learning from a
generation of analysis
Until recently, two strands of economic
literature—labor migration and economic
growth, each with a powerful impact on
developing-country policy makers—
have evolved along separate tracks and
diverged. But as shown in the arguments
and evidence on agglomeration economies in chapter 4, the two phenomena
are closely intertwined in the real world.

WDR09_11_Ch05.indd 158

Labor mobility and voluntary migration
for economic gain are the human side of
the agglomeration story.
As for firms, localization and urbanization economies arise from knowledge spillovers between people in proximity. For this
reason, people are often more economically
productive when they are around others,
especially for people with skills. Migration and agglomeration feed off each other.
Whether this is agglomeration in leading
places within a geographic area, in leading
areas within countries, or in leading countries within regions, human capital flows to
economically leading places. At every spatial scale, migration is the way that people
who invest in education and skills realize
the returns on their investment.
An important insight of the agglomeration literature—that human capital earns
higher returns where it is plentiful—has
been ignored by the literature on labor
migration. Preoccupied with urban unemployment and squalor in the fast-growing
cities of the South, early research on labor
migration advocated restrictions.29 Governments often acted on these prescriptions,
instituting migration abatement policies,
but to little effect: flows from the countryside to cities and from lagging to leading
provinces continued unabated. The only
effect of restrictions may have been forgone
economic growth and slower spatial convergence in living standards.
Increasing returns to scale and spillovers
from clustering—especially human capitalrelated spillovers—make clear the growth
and welfare payoffs of policies that facilitate movements of labor from lagging to
leading places. The implications for policy
are powerful. Rather than an impending
destructive tide of humanity, the swelling
flows of people from villages to cities could
be a boon for economic growth and the
convergence of welfare. Moving from the
local spatial scale, to the national, and then
to the international, the benefits from clustering are the same—and the problems facing policy makers grow and become more
complex. Put plainly, they do not want to
lose people and human capital.
Economic theory now recognizes that
governments should not try to hold on to

10/10/08 9:36:08 AM

Factor Mobility and Migration

people. The pull of agglomeration forces
in prosperous places is simply too strong
for any opposing measure to be sustained.
Another aspect of the pull of agglomeration
has been well studied by economists but is
often overlooked by governments. Migrants
who move to cities, to leading areas, or to
leading countries are rarely disconnected
from their home places. Most migrants
maintain strong and active links with their
home communities and send remittances.
And they do much more than remit capital.
They send back information and technical
assistance, and when a place is ready, they
often bring back ideas, knowledge, expectations of good governance, and links to leading markets. Sending governments that put
the right policies in place can capture these
benefits for faster growth and faster convergence in living standards.

Migration theory now recognizes the
benefits of agglomeration
Economists’ notions about what motivates
people to move and what such movements
mean come from theories of economic
growth and convergence. Whether couched
in a classical framework 30 or in the recent
models of “endogenous growth,”31 where
people are free to move, they will move to
compete away differences in wages between
locations. Since higher wages at the destination reflect an initial shortage of workers
relative to capital—or a large endowment
of capital per worker—the arrival of new
migrants will slow the accumulation of
capital per worker and the growth of wages.
In contrast, the accumulation of capital
per worker in the places migrants leave
will speed up as they go, accelerating wage
growth for workers who stay behind. By this
mechanism, incomes in different locations
are predicted to eventually converge.
The fi rst theories of labor migration
originated in the analysis of economic
growth in developing countries. 32 These
early theories partitioned a developing
economy into a traditional agrarian rural
sector and a modern manufacturing sector centered in urban areas. The main idea
was that with economic development, particularly with progressive mechanization
of agriculture, labor in rural areas is always

WDR09_11_Ch05.indd 159

159

in surplus. But in the growing modern
manufacturing sector it is not. So, in rural
areas, every additional worker, irrespective
of innate talents or education attainment,
has zero marginal productivity, but each
potentially has a positive marginal productivity in manufacturing. This opens a gap
in earnings and an incentive for labor to
migrate from rural areas to cities in search
of manufacturing jobs. Agriculture supplies
an unlimited labor force to manufacturing,
and the transfer of labor between the two
sectors takes place through rural-urban
migration. This migration continues until
the “disguised unemployment” of workers
in rural areas is absorbed into manufacturing in urban areas.
Movements from rural to urban areas
were considered desirable when accompanied by economic growth. In what has
become known as the Todaro class of migration models,33 prospective migrants decide
whether to move by comparing the expected
future income streams they could earn in
the city and in the rural home, after taking
into account the costs of actually moving
and searching for a job.34 A key feature of
the early Todaro models is that the economy’s rate of growth—and by extension the
rate of employment creation in the modern manufacturing sector—was assumed
to be constant and set independent of the
model. This classical framework—with an
exogenously determined rate of economic
growth and constant rate of employment
creation in the manufacturing sector—
explained rising urban unemployment in
cities like Nairobi. But it also created what
came to be known as the Todaro Paradox:
any policy to improve urban economies
could lead to more urban unemployment
because the improvements would induce
even more migration from rural areas.
Few economic models have had as much
impact on policy makers in developing
countries as these early labor migration
theories. Across the developing world, but
especially in South Asia and Sub-Saharan
Africa, the Todaro Paradox provided a basis
for strong disincentives and even outright
restrictions on the movement of labor.35
The Todaro model suggested that prohibiting internal migration over and above what

10/10/08 9:36:09 AM

160

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

B OX 5.4

Labor and social policies restrain migration in
Eastern Europe—not good for growth

Internal migration increased in
several countries in Eastern Europe
and Central Asia at the beginning
of the transition away from planned
economies. But this may have been
a one-time phenomenon. Much of
the sudden increase in migration in
the Commonwealth of Independent
States appears to have been driven
by the return of people to their ethnic homelands and the departure of
workers from areas they had been
sent to by central planners. More
than 1 million people relocated from
Siberia and the Russian North and Far
East to the more central parts of the
Russian Federation, about 12 percent
of the populations of these areas.
These movements may have run
their course. Migration has slowed
despite differences in income and
the quality of life. Internal migrants in
the Czech Republic, Poland, and the
Slovak Republic represent less than
0.5 percent of the working population, much less than 1.5 percent in
Germany, and nearly 2.5 percent in
France, the Netherlands, and the
United Kingdom.
People of working age in Europe’s
economically depressed areas mainly
don’t move because extensive
unemployment benefits and social
assistance reduce the pressure to
migrate from declining areas. Under
Poland’s unemployment insurance,
qualified workers receive fairly generous benefits for periods ranging
from six months in areas with low
unemployment to 18 months in areas
with high unemployment. In addition,

unemployed workers close to the
retirement age receive preretirement
benefits linked to their pensions. Lowincome households are also eligible
for guaranteed temporary social
assistance benefits. Housing policies
may discourage migration. During
the transition, homes typically were
transferred to their occupants at little
or no cost. So the cost of remaining
in one’s home is low. At the same
time, rent control discourages new
construction, driving up the cost of
housing in regions that are expanding
economically. The high cost of housing in economically prosperous places
can whittle away at the income gains
workers might expect from migration.
Also discouraging migration are
uniform national minimum wages
unadjusted for costs of living, collective bargaining arrangements,
and job protection laws. In other
regions where the informal economy
is dominant, labor market regulation
is less binding. But in the formerly
planned economies of Central and
Eastern Europe, minimum wage and
job protection regulations matter. In
Poland, where the minimum wage
is relatively high, national wagesetting appears to inhibit the migration of workers from economically
depressed areas. Elsewhere in the
region, where legislated minimum
wages are relatively low, they do not
appear to have a similar effect on
internal labor mobility.
Sources: Dillinger 2007, Paci and others
2007.

is required for full employment in manufacturing could increase national welfare
because output in both agriculture and
manufacturing can be maintained at optimal levels.
In the late 1970s and early 1980s, however, economists began to question the
classical models, pointing out the weaknesses of the Todaro framework, which
failed to capture the dynamic nature of

WDR09_11_Ch05.indd 160

labor movements. It minimized differences
in the appetite for risk among prospective
migrants. It did not account for differences
in education attainment and how these
differences can influence job searches. It
ignored pertinent motivations and household characteristics that could influence a
family’s choice of who will migrate. And it
neglected the possibility of migration for
jobs in the urban informal economy and
the pull these could exert independently of
the modern manufacturing sector.36
In parallel, some economists in the mid1980s began to think differently about economic growth, mainly by reformulating the
way classical growth models treated technical progress. Human capital and ideas were
different from other factors of production—
they exhibited increasing returns to scale.37
And because the generation of ideas and
human capital are in essence social activities—clustering people in a way that has
no comparison in the process of accumulating physical capital—these models could
explain why cities are important. They also
could explain why human and fi nancial
capital do not move from where they are
already abundant—rich countries, leading
areas in countries, and cities—to where they
seems to be scarce—poor countries, lagging
areas, and rural communities.38
If there are external effects from clustering human capital, cities can jump-start
and maintain economic growth. Although
urban specialists had long held this view,39
it was sufficiently novel for economists.
Researchers in urban economics enthusiastically took up the hunt for the theorized
positive external effects from human capital spillovers. Theoretical and empirical
studies sought to quantify what happens to
productivity, wages, and land prices when
the aggregate stock of human capital in a
city increases.40 Evidence began to emerge
of social returns to education accruing to
specific geographic areas, supporting arguments in favor of a greater concentration of
economic activity, if not the clustering of
labor specifically.41
These arguments did not themselves
spill over into the mainstream labor migration literature until the turn of the century.
This should come as little surprise: the

10/10/08 9:36:09 AM

161

Factor Mobility and Migration

fundamental assumptions for the classical
migration models are at odds with those
embraced by the new growth theorists and
by those emphasizing agglomeration economies (see box 5.5).

Migration, growth, and welfare:
divergence or convergence?
In a world with increasing returns to scale,
will selective, voluntary migration lead to
economic divergence or convergence? A
large volume of empirical work from developed and developing countries bolsters
an emerging consensus that governments
should not see voluntary internal population movements as a threat. Indeed, internal
migration offers societies an opportunity
for economic growth and the convergence
of welfare.
In contrast to the emerging consensus on
migration within countries, the benefits and
costs of international migration are still the
subject of debate. The preeminence of place
in determining the return on an individual’s investment in human capital is most
dramatically observed in the difference the
simple act of crossing a border can make
to earned income. An adult male Bolivian
with nine years of schooling in Bolivia will
earn roughly US$460 per months in dollars that reflect purchasing power at U.S.
prices. But a person with the same education, talent, and drive would earn about
2.7 times that much if he worked in the
United States. A similar Nigerian educated
in Nigeria would earn eight times as much
by working in the United States rather than
in his native country. This “place premium”
is large throughout the developing world.42
Although the benefits to an individual
from migrating from a poor country to a
wealthy country are clear, is the accelerated flow of skilled labor out of developing
countries more likely to help or to hinder
their growth and convergence prospects?
The answer is disputed.
But what is not disputed is the growing
volume of internationally remitted earnings, which now outpace all other capital
flows to poor and middle-income countries.
In 2007 the flows of remittances to many
developing countries surpassed those of
foreign direct investment and equity for the

WDR09_11_Ch05.indd 161

first time.43 And these are only the flows of
remittances that governments and researchers can observe—just a fraction of what is
actually sent through formal and informal
channels. Allowing the freer flow of skilled
and unskilled labor across national borders
would probably do more to reduce poverty
in developing countries than any other single policy or aid initiative.44

B OX 5 . 5

From Lewis to Lucas: the economic perspective on
migration has changed

The insights from economists that have
had the greatest impact on how policy
makers view migration share similar origins, in theories of economic growth.
The evolution of economic thought
on migration—and particularly on the
growth payoff from clustering labor
and talent in cities—spans the work
of two Nobel Laureate economists, W.
Arthur Lewis and Robert E. Lucas, Jr.
Lewis laid the foundations for
the study of labor migration with
his two-sector model of economic
growth in developing countries. But
theorists studying economic growth
since Lewis took a different path from
those who used his insights to focus
narrowly on labor migration.
The classical migration models
inspired by Lewis assumed an exogenously determined and constant
rate of economic growth. In sharp
contrast, the new growth theorists—
inspired by Lucas’s contention that
there are positive external spillovers
from clustering human capital—
internalized growth in models that
allowed for increasing returns to
scale. The classical theories modeled
each additional migrant as lowering the probability of employment,
contributing to urban unemployment, and raising congestion costs.
The new growth theorists and later
the proponents of urban agglomeration economies could imagine in
that migrant an additional source of
human capital to drive the agglomeration engine of growth.
In 2002 Lucas bridged the gaps
between these diverging strands of
the development literature, in a theo-

retical study of migration from rural to
urban areas in low- and middle-income
countries.a He posited a transfer of
labor from a traditional sector, employing a land-intensive technology, to a
modern human capital-intensive sector, with an unending potential for economic growth. In Lucas’s model, cities
are places where new immigrants can
accumulate skills required by modern
production technologies. In the conclusion to the paper, referring to the
attraction to cities driven by gains from
agglomeration, he writes:
“Even in the rapidly growing economies
of the post-colonial world, the passage
from a 90 percent agricultural economy to
one that is 90 percent urban is a matter of
decades. Since everyone has the option to
migrate earlier rather than later, something
must occur as time passes that makes the
city a better and better destination.”b

The new insight from theories that
acknowledged spillovers from clustering human capital is that, while the
returns to scale in agriculture are constant, the returns to scale in manufacturing and services are increasing. The
policy implications of adopting one
view or the other are profoundly different. A policy maker persuaded by the
classical view would restrict the movement of labor, particularly flows of
migrants from villages to towns and cities. In contrast, a policy maker who recognizes the external benefits of human
capital would do exactly the opposite,
facilitating migration and clustering,
particularly of workers with skills.
Source: WDR 2009 team.
a. Lucas Jr. 2004.
b. Lucas Jr. 2004.

10/10/08 9:36:09 AM

162

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Labor migration promotes growth.
Within countries, the accumulated empirical evidence shows that labor migration
increases the earnings prospects of people
who move. It also shows that labor migration contributes to aggregate growth by
improving the distribution of labor, driving concentration. And by clustering skills
and talent, migration drives agglomeration
spillovers. In the United Kingdom the estimated long-run wage premium for men
who migrate is about 14 percent, and for
women about 11 percent.45 Wage premiums ranging from 7 percent to 11 percent
have been found among internal migrants
in the United States.46 These gains for individual migrants translate into gains for the
broader economy. In many countries high
rates of internal labor mobility have been
associated with periods of sustained economic growth, as in the United States from
1900 to 2000,47 Brazil from 1950 to 1975,48
Japan from 1950 to 1975,49 the Republic of
Korea from 1970 to 1995,50 and China from
1980 to 2005. Among a selection of developing countries with comparable measures of
internal migration drawn from household
surveys, a positive association is found
between internal labor mobility and economic growth (see figure 5.7).

Figure 5.7

Internal labor mobility and economic growth often go together

Migrants as % of population
30

25

20

15

10

5

0
–15

–10

–5

0

5

Growth of GDP per capita in year before survey
Source: WDR 2009 team estimates using selected household surveys.
Note: Marker shows land area of country. Marker in the upper-left-hand corner is República Bolivariana de
Venezuela in 2004.

WDR09_11_Ch05.indd 162

10

Research in Bangladesh, China, the Philippines, and Vietnam suggests that internal
migration has helped to drive growth.51 In
Brazil internal migration has raised productivity by allowing producers to reap the
benefits of agglomeration. 52 Conversely,
in China, restrictions on the movement of
labor impede growth by constraining city
size. Because Chinese cities are kept artificially smaller than they might otherwise be,
the country has experienced welfare losses
from forgone higher growth rates.53 And in
India past restrictions on the movement of
labor may have kept the size of Indian cities inefficiently small, at a cost in forgone
growth (see box 5.6).54 Internal migrants
are clearly economically active. In 24 of the
35 countries with comparable survey indicators, migrants are as or more likely than
locally native people of working age to be
employed (see figure 5.8).
In today’s developed countries, leading and lagging areas converged. As for
earnings and living standards between the
leading and lagging areas, historical evidence of the impact of the internal labor
movement during the nineteenth century
in today’s developed countries supports
convergence.
At the start of the nineteenth century,
the majority of nonindigenous people in the
United States lived on the eastern seaboard.
By century’s end, more than 2 million square
miles had been added to the country’s original land area (see “Geography in Motion 1:
Overcoming Distance in North America”).
Robust institutions were critical in settling
such a large land mass. The U.S. Constitution along with the Northwest Ordinance
(1787) provided the framework for transforming unsettled areas into states. Factor
mobility was enhanced by the commerce
clause in the Constitution, explicitly prohibiting state governments from restraining
trade across state boundaries. State and local
governments provided public goods and
infrastructure to attract settlers. In the 1820s
real wages of “common” (unskilled) nonfarm labor were about 33 percent higher in
the Midwest than in the Northeast. Between
1820 and 1860, the Midwest’s share of the
unskilled northern labor force rose from
23 to 45 percent. As the Midwest’s share of

10/10/08 9:36:10 AM

163

Factor Mobility and Migration

Implicit barriers to mobility: place-based entitlement and divisions in India

B OX 5.6

tion as internal migrants—people living
and working in a place other than where
they were born. The share of migrants is
larger in cities (about 40 percent of the
population) than in rural areas (about 30
percent). But by far the largest flows of
migrants—within districts, across districts,
and across states—are from lagging rural
to leading rural areas. Since the 1960s
rural-to-rural migration flows typically
have been more than twice the volume as
the next largest flows, from rural areas to
cities. Rural-rural migration accounted for
roughly 62 percent of all movements in
1999–2000. Workers from lagging states
like Bihar, Orissa, Rajasthan, and Uttar
Pradesh routinely travel to the developed
green revolution states of Gujarat, Maharashtra, and Punjab to work on farms.
In India both distance and division
limit labor mobility. The highest levels of

Policy barriers to internal mobility in India
are imposed by omission rather than by
commission, exemplifying the implicit
obstacles to migration in many developing countries. Current policies do not
allow communities to fully capture the
benefits of labor mobility. The costs and
risks of migration would be significantly
lowered by greater flexibility in the way
households use public services and
social entitlements, and in the deployment of targeted assistance for mobile
populations. Negative attitudes held by
government and ignorance of the benefits of population mobility have caused
migration to be overlooked as a force in
economic development.
Recent evidence shows that population
mobility in India—having stabilized in the
1970s and 1980s—is rising. India’s 1961
census classified 33 percent of the popula-

Internal migrants in India flow to prospering Delhi and Maharashtra
Internal migrant flows reported in 2001 census
MAHARASHTRA

DELHI

HIMACHAL
PRADESH

HIMACHAL
PRADESH

UTTARANCHAL

PUNJAB

UTTARANCHAL

PUNJAB

UTTARANCHAL

HARYAN
HA
RYANA
A
HARYANA

SIKKIM

HARYAN
HA
RYANA
A
HARYANA

131,895

SIKKIM

DELHI

DELHI
UTTAR
UTTAR
PRADESH

RAJASTHAN

UTTAR
UTTAR
PRADESH

RAJASTHAN

BIHAR

BIHAR

JHARKHAND

JHARKHAND

WEST
BENGAL
BENGAL

WEST
BENGAL
BENGAL

GUJARAT
GUJARA
GUJAR
AT

MAHARASHTRA

HA
TT

ORISSA

CH

ORISSA

CH

HA
TT

IS

IS

GA

GA

RH

MADHYA
MADHYA PRADESH
PRADESH

MADHYA PRADESH
PRADESH
MADHYA

RH

GUJARAT
GUJARA
GUJAR
AT

MAHARASHTRA

12,505,916

ANDHRA
PRADESH

ANDHRA
PRADESH
GOA

GOA

KARNATAKA
KARNATAK
KARN
ATAKA
A

PUNJAB
1,712,627

KARN
KARNATAK
ATAKA
A
KARNATAKA

UTTAR PRADESH

HIMACHAL
PRADESH

HIMACHAL
PRADESH

UTTARANCHAL

PUNJAB

PUNJAB
UTTARANCHAL
SIKKIM

HARYAN
HA
RYANA
A
HARYANA

SIKKIM

HA
HARYAN
RYANA
A
HARYANA
DELHI

DELHI
UTTAR
UTTAR
PRADESH

RAJASTHAN

UTTAR
UT
TAR
PRADESH

RAJASTHAN
MEGHALAYA

8,969,367

BIHAR
JHARKHAND

GA
RH
HA
TT
IS
CH

ORISSA

MAHARASHTRA

MAHARASHTRA

ANDHRA
PRADESH

GOA

KARNATAKA
12,505,916

Number of within-state migrants

ANDHRA
PRADESH
GOA

KARNATAKA

Migration totals
1,000,000
500,000

Source: WDR 2009 team, based on census data from the Census of India.

WDR09_11_Ch05.indd 163

WEST
BENGAL
BENGAL

MADHYA PRADESH
MADHYA
PRADESH

GUJARAT
GUJAR
GUJARA
AT

CH
HA
TT
IS
GA
RH

WEST
BENGAL
BENGAL

MADHYA PRADESH
PRADESH
MADHYA
GUJARAT
GUJARA
GUJAR
AT

BIHAR
JHARKHAND

100,000
50,000

ORISSA

movement are recorded within the same
district. The flow of migrants across state
lines is a trickle. Since 2001 there has
been a slowdown in permanent or longterm migration (see the map below). The
share of lifetime (permanent) interstate
migrants—at about 4 percent—is much
lower than the total migrant population.
Most of these permanent migrants live in
cities. In addition to geographic distance,
the strong differences in culture and language can discourage movement far from
a person’s home place.
Although official data sets indicate
a slowdown in permanent rural-urban
migration, microstudies find that circular
migration is emerging as a dominant
form of migration among the poor.
Short-term migrants have been estimated to number 12.6 million but recent
microstudies suggest that the figure is 30
million and rising.
The economic benefits of migration
are not always recognized by policy
makers. Two forms of policy have been
attempted to counter migration in India.
The first response has been to increase
rural employment, in an attempt to stem
movement out of rural areas. This policy
implicitly assumes that deteriorating
agriculture leads to out-migration and
that improved employment opportunities in lagging rural areas can reduce
or reverse migration. These measures
include the recently introduced National
Rural Employment Guarantee Program,
which promises 100 days of wage labor
to one adult member in every rural
household who volunteers for unskilled
work, numerous watershed development
programs that aim to improve agricultural
productivity, and programs to develop
small and medium towns.
MEGHALAYA
The second policy response is implicit.
Because of the perceived negative
effects, local governments remain hostile toward migrants, while employers
routinely disregard laws to protect their
rights and needs. In many cases welfare
policies and social services are designed
for a sedentary population. This is best
exemplified by location-specific entitlements to social services, housing subsidies, food rations, and other public amenities especially important to working
poor people.

10/10/08 9:36:11 AM

164

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Figure 5.8 Internal migrants are more likely to work than natives
Comparison of internal migrants and native workers
% employed
0

10

20

30

40

50

60

70

80

90

100

Malawi
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Azerbaijan
Mauritania
Armenia
Morocco
Tajikistan
Haiti
Micronesia
Bulgaria
Kazakstan
Croatia
Mongolia
Albania
Venezuela, R.B. de
Guatemala
Dominican Republic
Honduras
Nicaragua
Sierra Leone
Romania
Colombia
Argentina
Ecuador
Brazil
Bolivia
Paraguay
Costa Rica
Mozambique
Madagascar
Congo, Dem. Rep. of
Vietnam
Kyrgyz Republic
Cambodia
Rwanda
0

5

10

15

20
25
% unemployed

Employed natives (top axis)
Employed migrants (top axis)

30

35

40

Unemployed natives (bottom axis)
Unemployed migrants (bottom axis)

Source: WDR 2009 team using household surveys.

the labor force increased, its wage advantage
eroded to roughly 17 percent in the 1850s,
and to 10 percent in the four decades after
the Civil War. State data on farm wages point
to a long-term narrowing of geographic wage
differences in response to internal migration, a process that can be dated back even
before the Civil War.55
In France wage differences between the
Paris metropolitan area and the countryside,

WDR09_11_Ch05.indd 164

large in the mid-nineteenth century, eroded
as labor poured into the city. More generally, wage differences across French départéments narrowed significantly over the
second half of the nineteenth century.
Across Canadian cities, wage differences
evolved precisely as would be expected if
Canadian migrants treated the entire country as a single labor market.56 And across
England wage differences did not erode
much during industrialization. This was
not because the labor force was immobile,
as history shows English labor moved freely
from low- to high-wage areas. Rather, it was
because the forces that sustained industrial
development in various parts of England
were so persistent that internal migration
in any one period was not enough to cause
wage gaps to decline.57
Throughout the twentieth century, labor
mobility continued to be integral to concentration and convergence across the two
geographically expansive and economically
prosperous countries of North America.
In the United States labor mobility was
greater than in Europe, distributing labor
from low- to high-wage states, converging
state per capita incomes through most of
the twentieth century.58 With the notable
exception of the U.S. South (see box 5.7),
regional convergence in wage rates coincided with cross-regional labor market
institutions and information flows.59 Similarly, in Canada, labor mobility continued
to narrow per capita income differences
among Canadian provinces from 1910 to
1921. And when internal migration petered
to a trickle between 1921 and 1960, convergence in income also slowed.60
Disparities in income and welfare
between places were higher in the 15 countries of Western Europe where labor mobility has been much lower than in North
America throughout the twentieth century. The variation in employment across
subnational areas of the United States is
much lower than that across subnational
economic areas of the European Union
(EU). In parts of the EU where employment is highest, the employment rate is 60
percent higher than where it is lowest. In
the United States the difference is only 22
percent.61 The greater equity in employment outcomes in the United States is a

10/10/08 9:36:11 AM

165

Factor Mobility and Migration

direct consequence of higher labor mobility and a more tightly integrated national
labor market.62
Convergence, after divergence, in
developing countries. More recent empirical studies show the positive impact of
net migration on income convergence in
Japan.63 So do estimates from India, the
Russian Federation, and the United Kingdom.64 These studies may underestimate
the full impact of migration on the convergence in living standards by failing to
take into account the differing skills of
migrants flowing in and out of areas, and
by ignoring the indirect negative impact
of housing and labor market rigidities.
Analysis that distinguishes between (1)
the flow of skilled and unskilled migrants
and (2) the levels of human capital in
migrants’ places of origin and destination
shows a large impact of labor mobility on
convergence.
Much of the empirical evidence of the
impact of internal migration from lowand middle-income countries is consistent with expected convergence, after an
initial divergence. As Japan grew, regional
income inequality followed a bell-shaped
curve, initially increasing in 1955–61, but
then falling in 1961–75. Research attributes
the convergence to labor migration.65 In
China after the economic reforms of 1978,
income differences between subprovincial areas initially widened after economic
reforms from 1978–96, but later declined
with greater integration and internal labor
migration.66 In India and Indonesia higher
internal labor mobility is associated with
lower income inequality, 67 and migration increased equality in Mexico. But in
Chile, lower-than-expected rates of internal migration may be to blame for high
income inequality.68 And in Brazil, where
both social inequality and spatial mobility
of labor are high, some research suggests
that inequality would be even higher if not
for internal migration.69
Most early research on internal migration and convergence across areas within
countries focused only on a small part
of migration as an economic force: labor
market adjustments and changes in wage
differences between areas. The impact
of remittances was ignored. Yet in Sub-

WDR09_11_Ch05.indd 165

B OX 5 . 7

Why did the U.S. South take so long to catch up?
Division.

Researchers have long questioned
why wages and incomes in the U.S.
South were so different from the rest
of the country for so long. Although
wages and incomes in the South
have caught up, particularly since the
Great Depression, the process seems
to have been remarkably slow before
the 1940s (see “Geography in Motion
1: Overcoming Distance in North
America”).
Before the New Deal, the southern
labor market was isolated from the
rest of the country, with large wage
gaps. Yet, there was little migration
out of the southern states, even
among African Americans who suffered the lowest wages and the most
social discrimination and political
disenfranchisement. Before the 1920s
demand for low-skilled labor in the
industrializing North was satisfied
by migrating workers from Europe.
Employers in northern factories
showed a preference for low-skilled
European immigrants over blacks,
and the abundance of European
migrants made it affordable to
indulge this preference. This would
change with the restrictions on
movement across borders, tightened
in the 1930s.
Until World War II, there were few
established flows of either information or labor between the South
and the North. Given the cumulative
dependence of migration corridors,
this impeded the movement of
low-skilled workers of all races out
of southern states. Southern work-

ers found opportunities by moving
westward.
Even when the flows of migrants
from the South to the North began to
grow, wage and income differences
persisted. Scholars explain that the
Great Migration of rural southern
blacks to northern cities involved a
disproportionately educated segment of the population. After World
War II, the selective migration of
African Americans moderated, with
return migration associated with economic growth in the South.
With the gradual buildup of information and migration corridors
between North and South, the elimination of legal racial discrimination in
the wake of the civil rights movement,
and the improvement in the education of African Americans students
with the racial integration of schools,
the wages and incomes in southern
states gradually converged with those
in northern states. Indeed, since the
1970s, labor migration between the
North and the South and other areas
of the United States has been a safety
valve easing economic pressure during recessions. The differing impact
of economic downturns across areas
of the country have spurred large
movements of workers from states
where the economy was contracting
to other, more prosperous areas. In
the early 1990s, a sizable number of
workers migrated from the Northeast
to states in the South.
Sources: Rosenbloom and Sundstrom
2003; Margo 2004; and Vigdor 2006.

Saharan Africa, remittances account for
15 percent of rural income. In Uganda
labor mobility has a positive effect on
household expenditure. Comparable
households enjoy much higher per capita
spending if they migrate within their own
district or to another district than if they
stay in their native area. The incomes of
Ugandans who migrate from lagging to
leading areas are 10 to 60 percent higher
than nonmigrants in origin or destination
areas.70 In Tanzania, in the Kagera region
between 1991 and 2004, internal migration

10/10/08 9:36:12 AM

166

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

added 36 percentage points to consumption growth.71
Remittances from internal migration have
a positive impact in other developing regions
as well. In Bangladesh temporary migrants to
Dhaka send up to 60 percent of their income
to family members in their home places,
covering a large share of the household
budgets of migrant-sending households. In
several Latin American countries remitted
earnings not only augment the consumption
of receiving households, but also lower the
incidence of poverty in their communities72
Table 5.4 Most migrants move for economic reasons, but many are pushed out by
poor services
Percentage of internal migrants reporting reason for migration
To seek
employment
or join family

For education,
health, or better
living conditions

For sociopolitical
or other reasons

Malawi

95

1

4

Morocco

91

2

7

Romania

87

10

3

Ecuador

86

12

2

Nicaragua

84

5

11

Albania

82

11

7

Mozambique

81

4

15

Vietnam

80

7

13

Armenia

78

1

21

Tajikistan

78

10

12

Kazakstan

77

14

9

Bolivia

77

17

6

Dominican Republic

76

21

3

Cambodia

75

2

24

Paraguay

74

24

2

Guatemala

72

24

4

Bulgaria

71

28

0

Congo, Dem. Rep. of

69

6

25

Kyrgyz Rep

69

28

3

Madagascar

62

28

11

Bosnia & Herzegovina

55

1

43

Rwanda

54

5

41

Azerbaijan

44

5

52

Mongolia

41

28

30

Sierra Leone

23

3

74

Mauritania

23

74

4

Source: WDR 2009 team estimates using household survey data.
Note: “Sociopolitical” refers to different circumstances and events, depending on the country and year
specified, that lead to involuntary internal displacement.

WDR09_11_Ch05.indd 166

and increase the investment in education.73
And in East Asia remittances from migrant
family members increase investment in
education and capital-intensive household
enterprises in the Philippines.74 In China
the ministry of agriculture expects that the
remittances of migrant workers will soon
be more than earnings from agriculture for
rural households.
For the communities left behind, internal migration is critical for overcoming poverty and smoothing household
consumption in the wake of unexpected
shocks. Indeed, World Development Report
2008 Agriculture for Development identifies
internal migration as an important “pathway out of poverty” for rural households
that can no longer rely solely on agriculture
for their livelihood.75 Even in situations in
which supporting the permanent resettlement from villages to cities may be fairly
costly, within the means of only betteroff households, seasonal and temporary
migration can more immediately mitigate
downward shocks to consumption in rural
areas than even the best-designed social
assistance program.76
Members of rural households in Bangladesh migrate to cities to diversify household income when harvests are lower than
expected. Internal migration in China
raises the consumption of households in
migrants’ home communities, and the
increase is greater for poorer households.
And the out-migration of Chinese workers allows those who remain in rural areas
to work more. The gains associated with
internal migration increase housing wealth
and consumer durables as well as agricultural production.77 Indeed, the selective
phenomenon that determines who moves
seems to work both ways. Those with higher
academic achievement choose to migrate to
jobs in China’s cities, and people who are
better at farming choose to stay.78
Pulled or pushed? The development
benefits of migration are seen when people move voluntarily. Large numbers
of people—particularly in the poorest
c ountries—are also forced to move by
deteriorating living conditions and confl ict. People are “pushed” off their land
when agriculture is in decline, by the
pressures of population growth, and when

10/10/08 9:36:12 AM

167

Factor Mobility and Migration

environmental change makes continued
cultivation of certain areas no longer
viable. Historically, droughts have had
sudden and prolonged impacts on the distribution of the population, particularly in
Sub-Saharan Africa79 and South Asia.80
Another important “push” that propels internal migration—mundane, but
no less critical—is the lack of adequate
public services (see table 5.4 and box 5.8).

B OX 5.8

In many developing countries, schools,
health care centers, hospitals, and public
and private amenities are located in areas
of economic activity. With a concentration
of economic mass, public services can be
withdrawn from smaller towns and villages.81 Several studies document the migration to large economic centers by people in
search of better education and health services.82 This movement, though voluntary,

Migrating to economic density: rational decisions or bright lights?

Twenty percent of poor men born in Brazil’s
Northeast—one of the country’s lagging
areas—now live in its prosperous Southeast. A large demographic shift occurred
from villages to towns and cities in the
1970s, and from towns to cities in the 1990s.
Economists have long argued that
migration decisions are motivated by

the possibility of earning higher wages.
But since many migrants do not find jobs
after moving, this attraction may be irrational. Some policy makers in developing
countries believe that rather than adding
to the economy in their new neighborhoods, migrants subtract from them by
worsening the problems of livability. This

Brazilians move to the prosperous Southeast
Internal migration of adults, ages 25–35, based on reported region of birth in 1991 and 2001
censuses

BRAZIL

NORTH

762 (1991)
788 (2000)

NORTHEAST
45,672 (1991)
57,131 (2000)

CENTER-WEST

2,839 (1991)
4,117 (2000)

Brasília

SOUTHEAST
Population that did not migrate
1991
2000
300,000
200,000

14,697 (1991)
17,228 (2000)

1991

2000

SOUTH

100,000
30,000

Source: WDR 2009 team, based on census data from the Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatística.

WDR09_11_Ch05.indd 167

15,000
10,000
5,000
2,000

belief has resulted in deterrents ranging
from disincentives to draconian regulations to limit the movement of people.
Recent empirical evidence from four
decades of Brazilian census data shows
something different. Working-age men
migrated not only to look for better jobs
but also to get better access to basic public
services such as piped water, electricity,
and health care. Results from models of
migration behavior that focus only on the
migrant’s desire to move in search of better
jobs can be biased, because places with
better public services also have more job
opportunities. Firms like to locate where
workers would like to live. By ignoring
the importance of public services, some
econometric estimates may overstate a
migrant’s willingness to move in response
to wage differences.
To determine how much public services
matter, a rich data set of public services
at the municipality level was combined
with individual records from the Brazilian
census to evaluate the relative importance
of wage differences and public services
in the migrant’s decisions to move. Predictably, wage differences are the main
factor influencing migration choices. For
the better off, basic public services are
not important in the decision to move.
But for the poor, differences in access to
basic public services mattered. In fact,
poor migrants are willing to accept lower
wages to get access to better services. A
Brazilian minimum wage worker earning
R$7 per hour (about US$2.30 in February
2008) was willing to pay R$420 a year to
have access to better health services, R$87
for better water supply, and R$42 for electricity. Poor migrants are rational.
Contributed by Somik Lall and Christopher
Timmins.

10/10/08 9:36:13 AM

168

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

B OX 5.9

Too early to tell? The impact of African emigrants
on Africa

The brain drain is debated most
heatedly for Sub-Saharan Africa. Concern is justified, but emigrants and
diaspora groups have contributed
much to Africa’s development.
Early accounts of voluntary migration from Africa tell of small numbers
of Africans going abroad to study
in religious schools and monasteries in Europe in the 1700s. Many of
these students translated the Bible
into African languages. In doing so,
they produced some of the earliest attempts to introduce written
text to what were predominantly
oral-language traditions. One such
student, Jacobus Capitein, who emigrated from what would become
Ghana to study in the Netherlands, is
credited for spreading the use of the
written word in his native country.
Another Ghanaian, Kwegyir Aggrey,
from a later generation of emigrants,
traveled to the United States to study
at Columbia University. With the sup-

port of American philanthropists,
he returned to Ghana to found the
country’s first nondenominational
school, which would later become
the University of Ghana. Many of the
region’s seats of learning have similar
origins.
Most of Africa’s independence
leaders were part of what might
have been termed a brain drain in
the 1930s and 1940s. Kamuzu Banda,
Jomo Kenyatta, Julius Nyerere, and
others were from a generation of students who emigrated to the United
States and Europe and formed plans
to fight for independence.
The economic and social contribution of these emigrants to their countries of origin are difficult to quantify
but impossible to deny, and have
made all the difference to the development prospects of Sub-Saharan
Africa.
Source: Easterly and Nyarko 2008.

is more likely to add to congestion costs in
cities than to agglomeration benefits.
International brain drains—or gains?
There is concern about the volume of
skilled workers leaving Sub-Saharan Africa
and the Caribbean. As a percentage of the
total stock of highly educated people, the
number of skilled emigrants looks high. On
the whole, though, most skilled migrants
to high-income countries come from the
larger middle-income countries like Brazil and India. Migration prospects in these
countries induce more human capital accumulation, increasing not only the number
of skilled migrants but also the skills of the
global workforce generally.83 A “brain gain”
is likely when the rate of emigration of
skilled workers from a country is between
5 and 10 percent. Concern arises for the
stunted development prospects of some
countries in Sub-Saharan Africa, Central
America, and the Caribbean, where the
emigration of skilled labor is much higher.
In 2000 the rate of skilled emigration from
Sub-Saharan Africa was 13.1 percent, from

WDR09_11_Ch05.indd 168

Central America it was 16.9 percent, and
from the Caribbean it was 42.8 percent.84
Critics of the “brain drain–brain gain”
debate point out that it ignores real-world
patterns of international migration. Skilled
workers do not “drain away” as much as
“circulate” among countries in the world
economy. The benefits of attracting and
retaining skilled people do not have to be
distributed in a zero-sum game among
countries. In addition to the large flows
of international remittances, many skilled
migrants work hard to return to their countries with improved prospects as entrepreneurs, armed with capital, new skills, and
ideas. Several political, academic, and business leaders in developing countries began
as emigrants (see box 5.9). Cross-country
research on the determinants of economic
growth has not found evidence of a negative impact associated with the emigration
of people with skills.85

Practical policies for managing
migration
Not everyone chooses to migrate. Moving
can be a costly, difficult, and disruptive
decision. Indeed, a generation of research
shows that the movements of labor—from
villages to towns, between towns and cities, across borders in the same region, and
from poor to distant wealthy countries—
are selective. Migrants are not the same as
people who stay behind. And while many
individuals move in search of a better job
or higher education, many others—particularly those in the rural areas of lowand middle-income countries—seek basic
schooling and health care for their families.
But this migration is economically inefficient. By overlooking the provision of basic
social services in outlying areas—such as
schools, primary health centers, and even
basic public infrastructure—policy makers can unwittingly influence the choice to
migrate, motivating households to move
for reasons other than to exploit economic
opportunities. While the move is welfare
improving for these families, the economy
may end up worse off.
By focusing more attention on providing education, health, and social services
in outlying, economically lagging areas,

10/10/08 9:36:14 AM

Factor Mobility and Migration

Table 5.5

169

What does a practical policy toward migration do? Recognize agglomeration benefits.
Migration of unskilled labor

Migration of skilled labor

Internal migration

Neutral, but discouraging if agglomeration economies
are unlikely. Policies should encourage migration
for economic reasons and discourage migration in
search of public services. Remove explicit and implicit
restrictions as well as place-based service entitlements.

Strongly supportive, particularly to capture agglomeration
gains where these are likely. Invest in services in peripheral
areas to build portable human capital. Increase the flow of
labor market information, so migrants arrive better informed
of employment possibilities.

Cross-border migration within
regional neighborhoods

Supportive, particularly for welfare and diversification
gains from remitted earnings.

Supportive, where markets in regional neighborhoods are
integrated and gains from agglomeration can spill over to the
sending country.

Cross-border migration
outside regional
neighborhoods

Supportive, particularly for welfare gains from remitted
earnings.

Neutral, as there is a possible foregone agglomeration
from an accelerated brain drain, but possible gains from
knowledge transfer of return migrants, and strong incentives
for human capital investment from the prospect of migrating.

Source: WDR 2009 team.

governments can go a long way toward
eliminating some of the reasons households
are pushed to migrate. These efforts can,
in turn, improve the quality of migration.
Labor mobility that leads to greater concentration of people and talent in locations of
choice will contribute more to agglomeration benefits than it adds to congestion.
The impact of policies on the welfare of
migrants and the broader economy should
fuel skepticism of attempts to restrict
labor mobility. Encouragingly, there is a
growing shift away from restrictions on
population mobility and toward facilitation and encouragement. But other than
allowing people to move and settle where
they will earn the highest return on their
labor and human capital, can governments do more to help capture the benefits of agglomeration?
Migration results from forces that “pull”
as well as those that “push” individuals to
leave. One big pull is the agglomeration
economies in cities. But people are also
pushed out by the lack of social services. In
Africa disparities in school enrollment and
neonatal care between cities, towns, and
villages are attributable to the near absence
of schools and health facilities in outlying
areas.86 Evidence from Central Asia shows
that in the isolated parts of Tajikistan,
schools are inadequately heated, drinking
water is scarce, and arrangements to clear
garbage and sewage are lacking.87 In China
the government is emphasizing a more even
distribution of basic services to address the
gaps in living standards between the coast
and the interior. By prioritizing education,
health, and social services in outlying areas

WDR09_11_Ch05.indd 169

over other investments, governments can
eliminate some of the reasons households
are pushed to migrate. These efforts can
shape the composition of migration in a
way that growing concentrations are more
likely to add to agglomeration economies,
rather than pile up congestion costs.
By recognizing the selective nature of
voluntary labor migration, and the implications of increasing returns to scale, the economic arguments and empirical evidence
in this chapter support a more positive view
of labor mobility than that held by policy
makers in poor and middle-income countries in the past. From this perspective, a
practical policy stance will differ according
to the human capital endowment of prospective migrants and whether the agglomeration spillovers from clustering talent can
be captured and taxed by governments (see
table 5.5).
All the evidence on the benefits of education suggests that policy makers should be
concerned about the rapid loss of talent to
countries far outside their regions. But the
potential costs in forgone human capital
from outright restrictions on skilled emigration are high. A far more practical and sustainable policy stance would operate along
two tracks. First, raise the private, individual
costs of acquiring human capital to match
the private individual returns from migration of skilled workers abroad. Second, reap
the benefits from diaspora communities in
the world’s prosperous places, by encouraging their economic and political participation at home, and by making it easy for them
to retain citizenship, vote, and eventually
resettle if they so choose.

10/10/08 9:36:15 AM

CHAPTER 6

Transport Costs
and Specialization

T

170

WDR09_12_Ch06.indd 170

he sharpest insights sometimes
come from piecing together bits of
information that separately can be
innocuous and unsurprising. In the mid1970s overseas transport costs had fallen to
a fraction of what they were in 1900, thanks
to such inventions as steam power and the
telegraph. And the share of trade between
neighboring countries in Europe had risen
relative to their trade with countries more
distant. In 1910 British exports were spread
quite evenly between Europe (35 percent),
Asia (24 percent), and other regions (31
percent). By 1996, 60 percent of Britain’s
exports went to Europe and only 11 percent
to Asia.1
Singly, neither fact is surprising.
Together, they are exactly the opposite of
what standard economics would predict.
After all, transport costs should be a larger
part of the cost of goods shipped from
half a world away than for goods traded
with neighbors. So a fall in transport costs
should have meant more trade with distant
partners than with neighbors, not less.
What had happened?
Research in the 1980s provides the
answer.2 Two waves of globalization—a
euphemism for falling transport and trade
costs—were responsible. During the fi rst
wave from about 1840 to World War I,
transport costs fell enough to make largescale trade possible between places based
on their comparative advantage. So Britain
traded machinery for Indian tea, Argentine
beef, and Australian wool; trade increased
between distant and dissimilar countries. During the second wave after 1950,

transport costs fell low enough that small
differences in products and tastes fueled
trade between similar countries, at least
in Europe and North America. Neighbors
traded different types of beer and different parts of cars, such as wheels and tires.
Trade in parts and components grew to take
advantage of specialization and economies
of scale. The first wave of globalization was
characterized by “conventional,” interindustry trade that exploited differences in
natural endowments, the second by a “new
international trade” driven by economies of
scale and product differentiation.
Transport costs and scale economies
interact to produce the trade flows observed
in the past half-century.3 The main insight
from research is that the relationships
between transport costs, production locations, and trade patterns are nonlinear.
Falling transport costs first led to countries
trading more with countries that were distant but dissimilar. When they fell further,
they led to more trade with neighboring
countries. Similarly, when transport costs
fell from moderate levels, production concentrated in and around large markets.
In East Asia, as the costs of transporting
goods by sea and air fell, the production of
manufactured goods spread from Japan to
neighboring economies such as Hong Kong,
China; the Republic of Korea; and Taiwan,
China. Production then moved to Southeast Asia, and now it has moved to China.
With a fall in telecommunication costs,
large cities in the United States and Europe
reaped the rewards of growing markets.
But as the costs of telecommunications fell

10/8/08 11:11:46 AM

171

Transport Costs and Specialization

further, services such as accounting and call
centers moved to smaller cities in Europe
and North America, and then, as they fell
further, to cities in distant India and the
Philippines.
Intraindustry trade—the exchange of
broadly similar goods and services—is
perhaps the most important economic
development since World War II. Countries trade Samsung, Motorola, and Nokia
phones; casings for television remotes; and
buttons and stitching for textiles. Such
trade is now more than half of global trade,
up from a quarter in 1962. The share of
intraindustry trade has gone up for all types
of goods and services, from such primary
goods as oil and natural gas, to such intermediate inputs as auto parts and computer
help-lines, to such final goods as food and
beverages (see figure 6.1, panel a).
This is important because of the borderrelated divisions identified in chapter 3.
These divisions are barriers to movements
of capital and labor. If all that countries
could trade were final goods, such as televisions and cars, then convergence in living
standards would be slow at best. With trade
in intermediate inputs, the potential for
specialization and trade increases significantly. The efficiencies generated through
specialization and scale economies in production and transportation have indeed
benefited the world. But these benefits have
not been shared evenly (see figure 6.1, panel
b). East Asia, North America, and Western
Europe account for much of the world’s
intraindustry trade.
This chapter explains why these regions
account for this trade and what this means
for developing countries. In good measure
the reasons have to do with the interactions
between scale economies and transport
costs. Transport and trade costs influence
trade volumes. A 10-percent increase in trade
costs is estimated to reduce trade volumes
by 20 percent.4 Trade in intermediate goods
is especially sensitive to transport costs. If
the share of imported intermediate inputs
in final demand is large, small changes in
transport costs can have large effects on the
volume of trade flows—the “trade friction”
increases. For instance, a 5-percent increase
in transport costs can produce trade friction
equivalent to an ad valorem tax of almost

WDR09_12_Ch06.indd 171

50 percent, when the share of intermediate inputs in value added is 70 percent.5 As
transport costs fall, then, trade in intermediates would also increase rapidly.
“Circular causation” also affects transport. Trade volumes influence transport
costs. On the trans-Pacific route, cost differences between a “Panamax” unit of 4,000
Figure 6.1 Intraindustry trade is becoming more important for all types of goods, but not in all
world regions
Evolution of global intraindustry trade, by 3-digit product group, 1962–2006
a. By type of goods
Grubel-Lloyd Index, 3-digit
0.6
Intermediate goods
0.5

0.4

Final goods

0.3

Primary goods

0.2

0.1
0
1962

1966

1970

1974

1978

1982

1986

1990

1994

1998

2002

2006

0.5

0.6

0.7

Year
b. By region
Southern Africa
1962
1975
1990
2006

Western Africa
Central Africa
Northern Africa
Central Asia, Caucasus & Turkey
Eastern Africa
Western Asia
South Asia
Central America & Caribbean
South America
Eastern Europe & Russian Federation
Northeast Asia
Southeast Asia & Pacific
Western Europe
Australia & New Zealand
North America
0

0.1

0.2

0.3

0.4

Grubel-Lloyd Index, 3-digit, intraregional trade
Source: Brülhart 2008, for this Report.
Note: The Grubel-Lloyd Index is the fraction of total trade that is accounted for by intraindustry trade.

10/8/08 11:11:48 AM

172

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

TEU (20-foot equivalent units, a measure of
shipping tonnage) and a mega post-Panamax unit of 10,000 TEU are 50 percent. But
exploiting these cost advantages requires
large trade volumes and high capacity,
because economies of scale are available
not just in the production of goods and
services but also in their transport. It costs
about $400 to ship a container to the United
States from China, about $800 to ship from
India, and $1,300 to ship from Sierra Leone.6
China’s enormous trade is almost certainly a
reason for low transport costs, just as falling
transport costs have encouraged countries to
move production to China. Scale economies
in transport mean that falling transport costs
and increasing trade reinforce one another.
The Northern Hemisphere is heavily
trafficked, with ever-strengthening trade
links as intraindustry trade flourishes (see
map 6.1). But ships sail through or around
Central America, South Asia, and SubSaharan Africa, going only to countries
that have natural resources such as oil.
Trade passages between South America
and the most prosperous parts of the world
are narrow roads, not the busy expressways between East Asia, North America,

and Western Europe. Global air and Internet traffic maps show a similar imbalance.
These developments should be disconcerting for developing countries not integrated
into these self-reinforcing production and
trade networks. Scale economies in production and transport will make it more difficult, not easier, for developing countries to
enter these highly competitive markets.
A world of nonlinear relationships
and cumulative causation is a world with
thresholds. Knowing how developing countries can get past these thresholds depends
on where they are, what they produce, and
the costs that traders must pay. In the developed world, the total trade and transport
costs as a share of the value of goods can be
split into 20 percent transport costs, 45 percent border-related trade costs, and 55 percent retail and wholesale distribution costs.
These costs multiply, piling up to a 170
percent tax on the value of goods and services traded.7 What they show is that lower
international transport costs have reduced
distance but that trade costs due to international division remain high. Meanwhile,
transport costs due to internal distance have
stayed high even in the developed world.

Map 6.1 Busy seafaring in the North, little landfall in the South
Intensity of shipping routes during one year beginning October 2004

Equator

Shipping routes
Container ports

Sources: Data from the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) Voluntary Observing Ships’ (VOS) scheme, processed by Halpern and others 2008.
Note: Container ports shown are the 20 largest by TEU of total containers handled in 2005 (Heideloff and Zachcial 2006).

WDR09_12_Ch06.indd 172

10/8/08 11:11:48 AM

Transport Costs and Specialization

Developing countries can learn how
countries have reduced transportation
costs, including how trade has been stimulated and new technologies developed.
From the analysis of the past two decades,
they can learn how spatial concentration of
production may change as transport costs
fall. What does this mean for latecomers to
economic development? The main points:

•

•

•

Better transport technologies developed over the past two centuries have
increased the volume of trade and radically altered its nature. Before World
War I transport costs declined enough to
make large-scale trade possible, but only
between countries that were dissimilar.
They happened to be countries that were
distant, because big differences in climate
and natural endowments usually meant
the countries were in different parts of
the world (Indonesia and the Netherlands, for example). During the second
wave following World War II, transport
costs fell enough for small differences in
products and tastes to fuel trade. This led
to a rise in trade between countries that
are similar (for instance, Argentina and
Brazil), which often happen to be neighbors.8 As transport costs fall, physical
geography matters less. But with economies of scale in production, economic
geography matters more.
A decline in transport costs—with
increasing returns to scale—generally
means more spatial concentration of
production. Recent thinking in economics has emphasized the importance
of transport costs in development. With
high transport costs, large economies of
scale will remain unexploited, and production inefficient. Efficient production
is more specialized. When transport
costs fall, spatial differences in production and economic growth will increase,
both within and between countries.
Developing countries should pay more
attention to transport and communications regulations to reduce transport and trade costs. The new economic
geography has inadvertently contributed
to an exclusive policy focus on “hard”
infrastructure. The most critical policy-

WDR09_12_Ch06.indd 173

173

related aspects—the naturally monopolistic nature of transport—have been
assumed away. Developing countries
should do more to address the negative
effects of market structure in the transport sector. And for some aspects of the
agenda, they will need international
support.

What has happened: two centuries
of experience
Falling transport costs in the 100 years
or so before World War II brought closer
economic integration within and between
countries. Then, as in the twentieth century, the fall was caused by large infrastructure investments and breakthroughs
in transport technology.
From the early nineteenth century to the
beginning of World War I, the global economy went through what economic historians
call the “first era of globalization.” Domestically, canals and then railways greatly
reduced transport costs, leading to larger
integrated home markets and to converging prices for manufactured and agricultural goods. The routing of these transport
links greatly influenced the rise and decline
of urban agglomerations. Internationally,
steamships lowered maritime transport
costs and increased the speed and reliability
of service. The results were narrower intercountry price differences, expanding trade
on routes that the new shipping technology
could serve, and the emergence of large-scale
interindustry trade.
Domestic transport. Inland waterways
and railways reduced intercity and interarea transport costs dramatically in the
first half of the nineteenth century. Before
the railway era, which started around 1830
in Europe, most transportation was on
roads or—50 to 75 percent cheaper—on
water. In the United States massive investment in canal construction completely
changed interregional trade and shaped a
new urbanization pattern. The construction of the Erie Canal between 1817 and
1825 reduced the cost of transport between
Buffalo and New York City by 85 percent,
cutting the journey time from 21 days to
8. Productivity in the U.S. internal transportation sector grew at an annual average

10/8/08 11:11:53 AM

174

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

of 4.7 percent in the four decades before
the Civil War. British navigable waterways
quadrupled between 1780 and 1820. French
canal construction boomed similarly, and
continental European countries made a big
step toward overcoming division when the
Congress of Vienna recognized the freedom of navigation on the Rhine in 1815.
Steamships appeared on important rivers
and lakes in the early nineteenth century,
drastically reducing travel times.
The major nineteenth-century development in transport was the expansion of
railroads, which quickly surpassed inland
waterways and “performed the Smithian
function of widening the market.”9 Cities no
longer just provided public services—they
attracted industries with increasing returns
to scale, reaping productivity effects from the
more specialized inputs and larger labor markets. In the United States the expansion of the
railways had strong effects on the geographic
distribution of economic activity. Illinois,
Michigan, and Ohio had marked increases in
population, construction, and manufacturing with the new rail lines within and across
their borders. One canal after another was
abandoned. In 1850 boats carried six times
the freight of railroads; by 1890 railroads carried five times the freight of boats. The drop
in transport costs narrowed price differences
for agricultural goods between local markets
dramatically. The spread in the wheat price
between New York City and Iowa fell from 69
percent to 19 percent from 1870 to 1910, and
between New York City and Wisconsin from
52 percent to 10 percent.10
Railways expanded less in Europe than
in the United States, reflecting the national
scope of rail systems and the smaller size
of European countries.11 The higher freight
transport intensity of U.S. rail propelled a
further productivity increase. In 1910 the
labor productivity in American railways
was 3.3 times that in Britain, a gap that
had doubled since 1870.12 Russian railway
construction took off after the mid-1860s,
spreading wheat and rye production with
the narrowing of regional price differences.
The export share of Russian agriculture
increased from 29 percent of the grain produced in European Russia to more than 42
percent between 1906 and 1910.13

WDR09_12_Ch06.indd 174

India’s rail expansion had even bigger
impacts. In the 1860s the prices in some
districts were 8 to 10 times higher than in
others, and famines were common. The rail
system reduced transport costs by about 80
percent, and the coefficient of variation of
wheat and rice prices fell from more than
40 percent in 1870 to below 20 percent in
the decade before World War I.14 Lower
transport costs had little effect on industrial development, however. At the turn of
the eighteenth century, modern industry
employed 2 to 3 percent of India’s industrial workers (about 10 percent of the workforce). Modern factories were concentrated
in two maritime trading hubs, Bombay and
Bengal.15
International transport. The investments in domestic transport created large
and integrated home markets. Tariff barriers remained low, and international trade
benefited from technical and organizational
progress, mostly in shipping. Ocean shipping rates differed substantially for routes
and commodities, reflecting cost differences in harbor technologies, ship types,
and stowage opportunities.16 But overall the
trade costs for grain, the main internationally traded good, fell by 40 percent between
1880 and 1914 within Europe and between
the United States and Europe. This substantially reduced the price differences between
exporting and importing countries.
Liverpool wheat prices exceeded Chicago prices by 58 percent in 1870, 18 percent in 1895, and 16 percent in 1913.17 For
nonagricultural products, the reduction
in price differences was no less impressive. The Boston-Manchester cotton textile
price gap fell from 14 percent in 1870 to –4
percent in 1913, while the pig iron price
gap between Philadelphia and London fell
from 85 percent to 19 percent.18 International prices also converged in European
trade. The steamboat initially shifted the
relative importance of trade relations from
European and Asian routes to the North
Atlantic routes. Steamships could not serve
Asia until the opening of the Suez Canal
because coal was not available on the long
route around Africa.19
During this fi rst era of globalization,
increasing competition from abroad due to

10/8/08 11:11:53 AM

175

Transport Costs and Specialization

declining transport costs gave rise to protectionist trade policies. In North America,
during the Civil War, tariffs reduced the
fi nancial burden on the federal government, and they remained high after the war
ended. Continental Europe shifted away
from liberal trade policies in the late 1870s
in response to cheap American and Russian
grain. Tariffs were reintroduced on finished
manufactured and agricultural goods.

Increasing “transport intensity” and
intraindustry trade in the modern era
Freight costs have about halved since the
mid-1970s, 20 driven by investments in
transport infrastructure, better capacity
use, and technological progress. Recent
trends differed from those in the first era of
globalization:21

•

•
•

•
•

The major cost declines have been in road
and air transport. Maritime transport
went through the containerization revolution without reducing costs overall.
The surge in international trade has been
within industries, not between them, as
in the first episode of falling trade costs.
Reduced trade friction has been less a
consequence of falling transport costs
than of a drop in freight costs as a share
of the value of goods traded. Most of the
increase in trade has been in easily substitutable goods.22
Transport reforms and falling trade barriers have contributed substantially to
the fall in transport costs.
Falling communication costs, interacting with falling transport costs, have been
instrumental in fragmenting production
processes and outsourcing intermediate goods production. Relative wage differences have become more important
because of the lower costs of managing
production processes over long distances.

Road transport costs. Road transport
costs have fallen substantially, by almost 40
percent over the past three decades, despite
higher energy and wage costs. (Comprehensive statistics on prices for transport
services do not exist, and the implementation of price indexes as part of the system
of national accounts is still in its infancy.

WDR09_12_Ch06.indd 175

Empirical assessment therefore depends
on the estimation of transport costs.) One
study in France shows that truck transport
costs fell by 33 percent between 1978 and
1998, 23 with substantial regional variation due to the differences in the quality
of roads and the charges for road use. The
main contributors were the deregulation of
the trucking industry (a reduction of 21.8
percentage points) and the lower vehicle
costs (–10.9 percentage points). Transport
infrastructure (–3.2 percentage points) and
declining fuel costs (–2.8 percentage points)
were much less important.
Rail freight costs. Rail costs fell much
less than road costs. Technical progress
was uneven across rail submarkets, and
the monopoly power of large, mostly stateowned enterprises slowed cost reductions
(see box 6.1). Obligations to serve regions
with small transport, for instance, have

B OX 6 . 1

Biggest in the world: size and social obligations
of Indian Railways

The railway industry exhibits increasing returns to scale in two ways. First,
network economies and economies
of density lead to size advantages at
the firm level. Second, rail transport
operations are almost universally
combined with the supply of infrastructure services, granting rail firms
a natural monopoly, at least locally.
Given the importance of the railways
for economic development and the
enormous market power of rail firms,
it is not surprising that many rail companies are state owned.
The biggest of these mammoths
is Indian Railways. The Guinness
Book of World Records lists it as the
world’s largest commercial or utility
employer, with more than 1.6 million
employees. It moves more than 16
million passengers and more than
1 million tons of freight each day. In
2002 it ran 14,444 trains daily, 8,702
of them for passengers, and owned
216,717 wagons, 39,263 coaches, and
7,739 locomotives.
Founded in 1853 as a system of 42
rail systems, it was nationalized as
one unit in 1951. Vertical integration
of Indian Railways is not confined

to the bundling with infrastructure
services. It owns and runs factories for
locomotives, coaches, and even their
parts. Long transport distances on the
Indian subcontinent should give the
railways a stronger competitive edge
over roads. Indeed, Indian Railways
makes 70 percent of its revenues and
most of its profits from freight, crosssubsidizing the loss-making passenger
sector. The overpricing of freight services is one reason it has lost business
to roads in recent years.
Curtailing the potential to provide
low-cost freight transport over long
distances are extensive social obligations. Net social service obligations in
2005–06 were more than Rs 47 billion,
plus welfare costs of Rs 9.6 billion. The
service obligations include shipping
essential commodities (sugar cane,
livestock, paper) below cost, having freight subsidize passenger and
other coaching services, and opening
new unprofitable lines. A major part
of the passenger transport deficits
covered by freight are urban and
suburban losses in Chennai, Kolkata,
and Mumbai.
Source: WDR 2009 team.

10/8/08 11:11:53 AM

176

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

motivated demands for public subsidies and
cross-subsidies from profitable routes.
Rail costs are specific to the commodity shipped. For the United States, this has
been shown to depend on price discrimination by the freight railroads among shippers
of different commodities.24 There was no
uniform development of rail freight rates
from 1981 to 2004. Markups for coal and
grain have increased significantly. Markups in intermodal traffic have been lower
because of competition from trucking and
rail-to-rail competition between major
cities. Decreasing or flat rates had been
observed for shipping chemical products
and automobiles. This mainly indicates the
high value of these goods. Freight demand
is a derived demand, and the prices shippers
are willing to pay increase with the value of
the shipments.
Air transport costs. With the arrival
of the jet engine, air transport costs came
down quickly from the mid-1950s to the
early 1970s. Jet engines were faster, more
reliable, and more fuel efficient than the
piston engines they replaced (see box 6.2).
Quality-adjusted real prices of aircraft fell
by 13 to 17 percent annually from 1957 to
1972.25 Technical progress slowed considerably after 1972, but prices were still falling
by 2 to 4 percent a year from 1972 to 1983.
Between 1955 and 2004, air freight prices
fell from $3.87 per ton-kilometer to less
than $0.30, in 2000 U.S. dollars. Average
revenue per ton-kilometer fell 8.1 percent
a year in 1955–72 and 3.5 percent a year in
1972–2003. Despite this significant decline
in nominal air freight rates, the trade friction in air transport did not fall as dramatically. The price of air shipping in real U.S.
dollars per kilogram increased 2.9 percent
annually from 1973 to 1980, in part due to
oil price increases, and then declined by
2.5 percent annually from 1980 to 1993.
The post-1980 decline varied substantially
among routes, with longer routes and North
America showing the largest drops.26 After
2001 the real price of inbound air freight
to the United States rose sharply, possibly
reflecting higher security costs.
Maritime transport costs. Two submarkets have developed differently over the past
decades. Tramp shipping is used for large

WDR09_12_Ch06.indd 176

quantities of bulk commodities on charter,
with shipping prices set in spot markets.
There are no fi xed schedules or routes, so
shipping is determined by current market
demand. Liner shipping is used for general
cargo on fi xed trade routes and on a fi xed
timetable. The liner trade is organized into
cartels, or conferences, which discuss and
coordinate prices and market shares.
Technical progress and institutional
changes have reduced prices in both submarkets. The most important are the
growth of open registry shipping, the
scale effects from the enormous increase
in maritime transport demand, the introduction of containers, and the resulting
changes in port logistics. Open registry
shipping is the practice of registering ships
under fl ags of convenience (Liberia and
Panama) to circumvent higher regulatory
and manning costs imposed by wealthier
nations. Open registry fleets did 5 percent
of world shipping tonnage in 1950, 31 percent in 1980, and 48 percent in 2000. 27 It
is estimated that vessel expenses for open
registry ships are 12 to 27 percent lower
than those of traditional registry fleets,
with most of the cost differences coming
from labor costs.28
Cost reductions because of scale effects
come from greater vessel capacity and institutional changes. The rapid expansion of
maritime transport demand seems to have
accommodated these changes and reduced
the danger of preemptive competition. 29
The increase in vessel size seems to have
allowed for hub-and-spoke economies—
smaller vessels move cargo to a hub, where
shipments are aggregated into much larger
and faster ships for longer hauls. Prime
examples are Hong Kong, China; Rotterdam; and Singapore.
Vessels for bulk commodities, refrigerated produce, and automobiles are profitable
on individual routes. Since the mid-1980s,
dedicated “juice tankers” have cemented
Brazil’s dominant position in the global
export market for orange juice, almost all
produced in São Paulo State. Standardized containers provide cost savings across
transport modes—long- distance truck,
inland waterways, rail, and short-distance
truck—because goods do not need to be

10/8/08 11:11:53 AM

177

Transport Costs and Specialization

B OX 6.2

The jet engine

An estimated 320 million people meet
annually at professional and corporate
events after traveling by air. Of the world’s
$12 trillion of merchandise trade, 35 percent by value was shipped by air in 2006.a
The estimated economic rate of return
from investments in aviation infrastructure and services is 56 percent in Kenya,
28 percent in Jordan, and 19 percent in
Cambodia.b The reason for all this is the jet
engine, perhaps the most significant innovation in long-distance transport ever.
The jet is safer, easier to maintain, better
suited for longer distances, and more
fuel efficient than the propeller. Since it
revolutionized air travel in the 1960s, it has
become so closely identified with aircraft
propulsion that one wonders how the aircraft industry managed to make so much
progress with pistons.
But as with many path-breaking
inventions in transport technology, the
gestation period between invention
and economic success was long. Frank
Whittle in Great Britain, in 1929, and Hans
von Ohain, a German physicist, in 1933,
independently developed concepts for
jet propulsion. Jet engine technology
progressed quickly after World War II. The
breakthrough in commercial passenger
travel arrived with the Boeing 707 and
Douglas DC-8. Earlier jet aircraft were
noisy and had higher operating costs
than advanced piston-engine aircraft.
They could compete only on speed and
greater seat capacity. But in the early
1960s, technology improvements (the socalled by-pass engine) rang in the end of
propeller-powered long-distance travel.
Within five years, prices per ton-kilometer
fell by about 40 percent.
Jet aircraft have a much higher powerto-weight ratio, which enables longer
range, faster travel, and bigger payloads.
Higher quality and lower cost had a large
impact in many sectors.
• Supporting buyer-supplier networks over
long distances. Most global trade is by

unloaded and reloaded (see box 6.3). Containerization reduces direct port costs for
storage and stevedoring. It also reduces the
indirect capital costs of idle capacity during
long port stops, which previously made up

WDR09_12_Ch06.indd 177

maritime shipping, but air transport
fills an important niche in just-in-time
production systems. While shipments
by sea are routine, firms use air cargo
to fine-tune intermediate input flows
and to ship goods with high value-toweight ratios. Even for Brazil, known
for its primary goods exports, air cargo
in 2000 accounted for 0.2 percent of
total export volume by weight, but
almost 19 percent by value.c Incidentally, Brazil is also home to the world’s
third-largest airplane maker, Embraer.
Prime examples of sectors benefiting
from air transport are semiconductors
and fashion. Shipments of semiconductors are so highly correlated with
air freight overall that they are considered a key leading indicator for the
sector’s health. Product cycles in the
fashion industry have shortened so
much that one Spanish clothing chain
ships merchandise straight from factory to store, replacing designs twice
a week. The need to respond quickly
to changing customer tastes has led to
the relocation of some of its production from East Asia to Spain and nearer
countries like Morocco and Turkey.
From there, clothes are sent to stores
elsewhere in the world: “Planes from
Zaragoza, Spain, land in Bahrain with
goods for Inditex stores in the Middle
East, fly on to Asia, and return to Spain
with raw materials and half-finished
clothes.”d
• Enabling exports of perishable goods
over long distances. Inexpensive and
frequent air service has allowed countries like Chile, Colombia, and Kenya
to sell agricultural and horticultural
products to markets in Europe, the
Middle East, and North America. A
prime example is Kenya, which today
has a third of the global market for cut
flowers. Naivasha in central Kenya hosts
a highly efficient cluster of growers,
showing that localization economies
also exist in agriculture. Flowers picked

in the morning arrive on Amsterdam’s
markets by evening. Horticulture is now
among the top three export earners
(with tourism and tea). In 2007 the sector’s free on-board (FOB) export value
was 43 billion Kenyan shillings (about
US$650 million), and the Kenya Flower
Council estimates that the livelihood of
1.2 million people depends directly or
indirectly on the industry. By contrast,
Bangladesh’s lack of cold storage facilities and refrigerated air cargo capacity
has blunted its opportunities to export
high-value fruits and vegetables to the
Middle East.e
• Mass tourism in developing countries.
In 2005 tourism receipts in low- and
middle-income countries were about
$200 billion,f thanks mostly to inexpensive air travel. Charter flights
provide even larger cost reductions
through packaging with other services and high-capacity use. Airport
construction in tourist areas generates clusters of development with
a high density of complementary
services and thick and specialized
labor markets. Between 1990 and
2005, tourist arrivals in Sub-Saharan
Africa increased by 8 percent a year—
from 6.8 million to 23.6 million—and
tourism receipts, from $4.1 billion to
$14.5 billion. Tourist arrivals in China
grew almost 10 percent annually.
Cambodia now receives more than
2 million tourists a year, Vietnam
about 4 million—16 times as many as
in 1990.
Source: WDR 2009 team.
a. International Air Transport Association
2007b.
b.International Air Transport Association
2007a.
c. Sanchez and others 2003.
d. Rohwedder and Johnson 2008.
e. Dixie 2002.
f. World Tourism Organization (UNWTO)
2006.

half to two-thirds of a ship’s lifetime.30 And
it allows for larger and faster ships, which
reduce the costs per ton-mile while the ship
is steaming. These cost reductions on the
ocean leg have more than compensated for

10/8/08 11:11:53 AM

178

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

B OX 6.3

The big box

About 90 percent of nonbulk cargo
worldwide is transported in containers stacked on trucks, rail wagons, and
freight ships. In 2007 more than 18 million
containers made more than 200 million
trips. Containerization has even changed
how port and ship capacity or maritime
transport services are measured. Cargo
shipped is now measured in TEU or
40-foot equivalent units (FEU). A TEU is
the measure of a box 20 feet long and 8
feet wide, with a maximum gross mass of
24 metric tons.
The revolution is popularly attributed
to Malcom McLean.a He owned a trucking firm in New Jersey and had a simple
insight: packages being shipped generally need to be opened only at origin and
destination, but unloading and repacking
costs a lot of money. In 1956 he inaugurated the Sea-Land Service, with his converted tanker ship, the Ideal-X, setting sail
from Newark, New Jersey, for Houston,
Texas, carrying 58 aluminum truck bodies
in frames installed atop its deck.
The idea did not spread widely until
more than a decade later, when the U.S.
armed forces needed efficient military
transport to Vietnam. Against considerable resistance, McLean won contracts to
build a container-port at Cam Ranh Bay
and to run containerships from California
to Vietnam. Without the containers, the
U.S. military would have had a tough
time feeding, housing, and supplying
the 540,000 soldiers, sailors, marines,
and air force personnel in Vietnam in
1969. From almost nothing in 1965, SeaLand’s Defense Department revenues
rose to $450 million between 1967 and
1973. Routes to Okinawa and Subic Bay
in the Philippines were added later, but
McLean’s business remained restricted to
military logistics.

The Japanese government was the first
to support the expansion of containerization. In 1966 the Shipping and Shipbuilding Rationalization Council urged the
Ministry of Transport to eliminate excessive competition to benefit from the new
technology. It persuaded the government
to build container terminals in the TokyoYokohama and Osaka-Kobe areas. The
first container cranes began operation
in 1968. But highway regulations barred
full-size containers, and the Japanese
National Railway was not equipped to
carry containers longer than 20 feet.
In the United States, Matson Navigation
won government approval to operate an
unsubsidized container service between
the U.S. West Coast and Hawaii and East
Asia. The company had visions of unloading cargo at Oakland directly onto special
trains that would carry it east. On the
return trip, the company planned to carry
military cargo for the U.S. bases in Japan
and the Republic of Korea. Business could
not start before Matson entered a joint
venture with a Japanese partner, and the
containership that completed its maiden
voyage in 1968 from Japan to the United
States was owned by Nippon Yusen Kaisha Line. Six weeks later, McLean’s SeaLand Services started a regular service
between Yokohama and the U.S. west
coast.
Once the infrastructure facilities were in
place, container traffic took off. By the end
of 1968 the Japan–U.S. route was crowded
with containerships, seven companies
competing for fewer than 7,000 tons of
eastbound freight each month. The speed
of expansion was determined by port and
rail infrastructure. In the United States, rail
intermodal traffic tripled between 1980
and 2002, from 3.1 million trailers and containers to 9.3 million.

higher investment costs and higher costs
for slack time in ports.31
But containerization has also concentrated shipping capacity in a few global
ports. Most developing countries have been
slow to containerize, because of their small
trade volumes and different factor prices.
Where capital is scarce and labor abundant,
the capital cost of specialized cranes, storage areas, and rail heads is higher, and the

WDR09_12_Ch06.indd 178

Container transport has continued to
increase at enormous rates. The boxes
keep getting larger, with the standard
FEU size giving way to 48-foot and
53-foot boxes that allow trucks to haul
more freight on each trip. The world’s
fleet is expanding steadily, with the
capacity of pure containerships rising by
10 percent annually between 2001 and
2005. The size of the vessels has been
increasing, too. Dozens of vessels able to
carry 4,000 FEU joined the fleet in 2006,
and even larger ones were on order. The
Emma Maersk (396 meters long), launched
in 2006, can carry more than 14,500 TEU.
Of all traffic, 26 percent now originates in
China.
Geography and topography limit the
ever-increasing size of ships: Because
the Panama Canal lost more traffi c with
the old locks unable to accommodate
vessels larger than 5,000 TEU, it now is
being expanded to allow ships up to
12,000 TEUs to pass. Most of the container ships are too large for the Suez
Canal as well. Container ships have
an absolute size, limited by the depth
of the Straits of Malacca, linking the
Indian Ocean to the Pacific Ocean. This
“Malacca-max” size constrains a ship to
dimensions of 470 meters long and 60
meters wide.
And what happened to Malcom
McLean’s company? Sea-Land grew and
was the biggest shipping company in
1995. The Danish company Maersk was
second, followed by Evergreen. Four
years later, Sea-Land was acquired by
Maersk. By 2000 Maersk-SeaLand had
a slot capacity of about 850,000 TEU.
McLean’s big box is here to stay.
Source: WDR 2009 team.
a. Levinson 2006.

port cost savings of containers are much
lower.
How did this technological change affect
shipping costs? When adjusted for inflation,
the real price for tramp services in 2004 was
about half the real price in 1960.32 But when
deflated using the commodity price index,
there are large fluctuations but no downward trend. This means that the trade friction resulting from transport costs for bulk

10/8/08 11:11:54 AM

179

Transport Costs and Specialization

commodities typically shipped by tramp
trip charters has not gone down—the price
of transporting a dollar’s worth of iron ore
or wheat has not fallen. Liner prices show a
steady rise before peaking in 1985, based on
long time-series from the German Ministry
of Transport. The price index for liner shipping emphasizes general cargo, including
containerized shipping and manufactured
merchandise. It also covers loading and
unloading expenses, which are particularly
relevant because reductions in cargo handling costs are thought to be a major source
of gains from containerization. Measured
relative to the German GDP deflator, liner
prices declined until the early 1970s, rose
sharply from 1974 to reach their peak in the
1983–85 period, and declined afterward.
These trends in shipping costs run counter to public perceptions of continually falling trade costs. Two possible explanations:
First, these price trends do not capture
the true cost savings of containerization,
since they do not factor in the total cost
of door-to-door transportation. In 1956
the loading of loose cargo cost $5.83 a ton.
When containers were introduced in that
year, the loading cost was less than $0.16
a ton.33 So the main savings came from
lower intermodal transfer costs. Containerization allowed goods to be packed only
once and shipped over long distances using
maritime, rail, and road transport. Second,
the quality of transport and logistics services increased markedly, particularly their
speed and reliability. The absence of a more
significant price decrease is thus explained,
at least in part, by a greater willingness to
pay for higher quality services.

Small declines in transport costs,
but a big easing in trade friction
Cost information suggests that international
transport costs have not dropped as much
as is commonly believed. Real prices of air
and maritime transport have not fallen or
risen much since the 1970s and early 1980s.
But the ad valorem transport charge—the
cost of transport as a share of the value of
the traded good—has gone down. Explaining the decline are changes in the composition of traded goods and the composition
of trading partners.34 One change is the

WDR09_12_Ch06.indd 179

reduced weight-value ratio in all international transport. A second is the lower
price of air transport relative to maritime
transport. Goods that traditionally have
been transported by sea are now shipped by
air. After accounting for the changes of the
weight-value ratios, the modal shift, and
the changes of routes, the ad valorem tax
equivalent of maritime transport fell more
than that of air transport (see figure 6.2).35
Changes in the composition of goods and
trading partners reduced the market friction of transport, not its costs.
Logistics, time, and international trade.
Transport services are not a homogeneous
good, and transport costs are not productor place-neutral. The revenue figures and
price indexes do not indicate quality or
speed. Shipping containers from Europe to
U.S. destinations still requires two or three
weeks—from Europe to Asia five weeks. But
air shipping requires a day or less to almost
anywhere in the world. With the decline in
air transport costs, the price of speed has
fallen dramatically.
This matters for trade. Every day in ocean
travel that a country is distant from the
importer reduces the probability of sourcing manufactured goods from that country by 1 percent.36 And exporting firms are
willing to pay 1 percent of the value of the
good per day to avoid time losses associated
with maritime transport. With the recent
increase in the intensity of international
trade, the demand for speed has increased.
Goods with the highest time sensitivity have
seen the fastest increase in trade. Examples
are perishable agricultural goods and those
with short product cycles such as fashion
articles, where consumer preferences shift,
or electronics, where the latest technology
earns a premium. Such cycles are important
not just for Europe, North America, and
Northeast Asia but also for China, India,
and Southeast Asia.
Faster transport can speed the changes in
the geography of trade. Production locations
for textiles and electronics were initially
driven by wage costs. But with short product
cycles, shorter transport times may outweigh
higher wage costs, leading to relocations.
Some apparel production outsourced from
the United States to Asia has relocated to

Figure 6.2 Air freight costs are
down less than ocean freight costs
Air freight
% of value shipped
15
Fitted ad valorem rate
10

5
Unadjusted ad valorem rate
0
1974

1984

1994

2004

Ocean freight
% of value shipped
10
Fitted ad valorem rate

8

6
Unadjusted
ad valorem rate
4
1974

1984

1994

2004

Source: Hummels 2007.
Note: The unadjusted ad valorem rate
is the ratio of freight costs to import
good value. The fitted ad valorem rate is
derived from a regression and controls for
changes in the mix of trade partners and
products.

10/8/08 11:11:54 AM

180

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

higher wage locations in the Caribbean and
Mexico.37 Short product cycles, and more
generally uncertain demand, are forces
for agglomeration as firms need to locate
near suppliers.38 But with more predictable
demand, faster speed might contribute to
outsourcing stages of production (component production, research and development
[R&D], and assembly) to other countries
according to comparative advantage.
Communication costs. The cost of a
three-minute phone call from New York
to London fell from $293 dollars in 1931
(in 1993 dollars) to around $1 in 2001 for a
much better connection—and to just a few
cents today (see figure 6.3). The Internet
and other telecommunication advances
have lowered communication costs, reducing even more the trade friction for physical goods, especially intraindustry trade.
But they have had an equal if not greater
impact on the trade in services. Yet many
tasks that require intensive communication hardly have been affected. Direct personal interaction and face-to-face contact
remain an important agglomerative force,
especially and paradoxically in the most
communication-intensive industries.
Lower communication costs facilitate the
coordination of international production
Figure 6.3 The costs of communicating have fallen
to a fraction of what they were a decade ago
Average cost of a telephone call to the United States
US$ per 3 minutes
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
1997 1998

1999

2000 2001

2002

2003 2004

Year
East Asia & Pacific
Europe & Central
Asia
High-income,
OECD countries

Latin America
& Caribbean
Middle East
& North Africa
South Asia
Sub-Saharan Africa

Source: World Bank 2007j.

WDR09_12_Ch06.indd 180

networks.39 But there are two more direct
effects. The fi rst is to reduce search costs.
Because knowledge about potential customers or suppliers in foreign countries
is imperfect, trade relations start with the
search for trading partners. The search
depends on the quality of the communication infrastructure, which is largely a fi xed
cost and therefore increases the intensity of
international trade as it reduces the search
cost for trading partners.40 The second is
to reduce variable trade costs. These costs
arise from the need of consumers and producers to interact on product specifications,
quality control, and timing.41 They are low
for homogenous goods traded on organized
exchanges or with reference prices. But they
are high for differentiated goods.42 Since
these kinds of goods are most prominent in
trade within more disaggregated production processes, the line for communication
costs played a big role in the recent surge in
intraindustry trade (see figure 6.1).
Low communication costs make it possible to control production processes over
long distances by computer-aided control
systems and online communication, reducing the need to co-locate management and
technical staff with unskilled workers. This
allows vertically integrated companies to
outsource production to low-wage countries. But it also facilitates the breakup of
production processes into supply chains
of different companies distributed across
countries and continents.43
Low communication costs are particularly important for offshoring tasks that
do not require the shipment of physical
products, such as business, professional,
and technical services, including accounting, bookkeeping, computer programming,
and information and data processing. U.S.
imports of these services increased by more
than 66 percent in real terms between 1997
and 2004. The shift of jobs to foreign countries has stirred fears among white-collar
workers of massive labor market adjustments and has reduced political support
for open trade regimes.44 Contrary to these
fears, business service imports in rich countries have remained fairly low. In the United
States, the import share of computing and
business services reached only 0.4 percent

10/8/08 11:11:54 AM

Transport Costs and Specialization

in 2003, and exports of these services are
even higher.
The biggest outsourcers, in relation
to local value added of these services, are
small countries like Angola, Mozambique,
Papua New Guinea, and the Republic of
Congo. Among the advanced economies,
Germany, a country with high absolute
imports in business services ($39 billion in
2002), ranks 59th with a share of 2.9 percent. The United States, with the highest
absolute import value in business services
($41 billion in 2002), ranks 115th. But the
United States was the biggest exporter of
services ($58 billion in 2002) and so was
a substantial net exporter. Ireland shows
that trade in immaterial services tends to
be within industries rather than between
them. It is the largest exporter of computer
and information services and the fourthlargest importer. Still its ratio of exports
to the local value added of computer and
information services was only 16 percent (9
percent of GDP).
So the relocation of back-office services
to foreign countries is not a large threat to
employment in advanced countries. Trade
balances in business services in almost all
developed countries have been positive and
increasing from 1981 to 2001. India, seen
to attract many business services from rich
countries, had a smaller increase in output
in this sector from 1995 to 2001 than did the
United Kingdom.45 In short, the impression
that services drive economic dispersion
across countries is not confirmed by the evidence. Trade in these services has increased
a lot, but for both imports and exports. For
most countries, the share in local services
remains small. And when business has
been outsourced, much of it has remained
concentrated in a few places. Low communication costs have had little effect on creative activities and high-value services that
require frequent personal interaction.

Transport costs and scale
economies: two decades of analysis
The evolution of transport costs, a critical factor in economic geography, helps
explain the experience in the previous section. A fall in transport costs increases the
concentration of people and firms because

WDR09_12_Ch06.indd 181

181

it allows more efficient sharing of facilities
and services. Recent research also explains
two somewhat unexpected consequences
of falling transport costs: (1) at the international level, trade increases with nearby
countries, not with those farther away, and
(2) within countries, improving transport
infrastructure may lead to more concentration of economic activity, not less.
Research has been far less successful in
showing why falling transport costs may
make it more difficult for developing countries and lagging regions to break into world
trade—indeed, increasing returns in the
transport sector have often been ignored in
formal models. But just as falling transport
costs facilitate economies of scale in production, higher production and trade produce economies of scale in transport.

Falling transport costs create bumpy
economic landscapes
Before the recent accelerated drop in transport costs, natural or “first-nature” geographic conditions (such as waterways)
largely determined the location of settlements and the spatial arrangement of production and trade. Shared investments
then created increasing returns to scale that
shaped economic geography. Such investments could include local health and education facilities or markets and other services
that reduce trade and transaction costs—
such as enforcing property rights, resolving contract disputes, or identifying market
opportunities. The more the people who use
a facility or communal service, the lower the
costs per user. The larger the settlement, the
more the people who share the fi xed costs.
To use the service, people and goods have
to travel. So as transport costs fall, access
increases, scale increases and the unit cost of
provision drops. This is how transport costs
define the geographic size of markets and
the reach and scale of communal services.
As more facilities and services are provided centrally in larger cities, smaller communities become less attractive and spatial
disparities emerge—the size distribution
of towns and cities changes. First-nature
geography and the lumpiness of urban
infrastructure investments result in irreversible dynamics that determine how the

10/8/08 11:11:54 AM

182

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

economic landscape fi rst becomes rough,
then bumpy.
Economic historians had long recognized that these processes, driven by changing transport costs, are critical for economic
development.46 And geographers and planners formalized the effect of indivisible
communal facilities in differentiating city
functions and sizes in the “central place
theory.”47 Economists went beyond fi rstnature geography and public goods. They
realized that increasing returns to scale in
the production of manufactured goods and
ideas further influence the distribution of
economic activities in geographic space.
With urbanization, manufacturing and
allied services become the drivers of growth,
as discussed in chapter 4. These forces interact with transport costs to determine the
spatial evolution of economies, at all spatial
scales—international, national, and local.

Falling transport costs increase trade
between neighbors
The growing demand for varieties of similar goods helps explain the paradox that
falling transport costs have led to more
trade between countries that are close by
and have similar characteristics. In fact,
over the past 40 years, distance has become
a larger deterrent to trade while divisions—
border effects—have become less of a deterrent (see figure 6.4).
Traditional trade theory did not consider
the increasing returns to scale and the differentiation of demand. It predicted more
intensive trade in goods that are different,
Figure 6.4 Distance has become more of a deterrent, divisions less
Coefficients for distance and national borders in trade models, 1960–2005

Distance coefficient

Distance

Division
Border effect coefficient

1.4

400

1.2
200
1.0
100
0.8
0.6
1960

1970

1980
Year

1990

Source: Mayer 2008 for this Report.

WDR09_12_Ch06.indd 182

2000

50
1965 1970 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005
Year

favoring trade between countries with different endowments. Countries traded because
they could not produce the imported products themselves—bananas from Central
America to Europe for cars in return. But
with differentiated goods, trade is within
classes of goods rather than between them.
Countries trade because they want slightly
different versions of similar goods—Japan
and Sweden trade Toyotas for Volvos. In
other words, in the old trade theory and
with high transport costs, countries trade
only what they need to. In the new trade
theory and with scale economies, a love of
variety, and low transport costs, countries
trade because they want to.
International trade surged between
(often nearby) countries of the Northern Hemisphere in the 1960s and 1970s,
even though these countries have essentially similar resource endowments. Trade
between rich and poor countries was initially dwarfed by these developments. In the
beginning of the 1980s intraindustry trade
between medium- and high-income countries expanded—and later between other
categories of countries (see figure 6.5). The
differentiation of demand—that is, the love
of variety—and intraindustry trade did not
remain confined to rich countries.
Accompanying the surge in intraindustry trade was a large increase in trade in
intermediate goods relative to fi nal goods.
Intraindustry trade in intermediate goods
requires an especially efficient transport
sector. The ability to coordinate and control production processes in real time by
computerized systems has been central to
the vertical disintegration of production
processes in the high-income countries and
the outsourcing to medium-income countries.48 So lower transport costs, changes in
goods traded, and lower communication
costs reinforce each other.
One might expect that goods with low
value-to-weight ratios would be traded
mainly over short distances. But product cycles for knowledge-intensive intraindustry goods and for consumer items
such as electronic gadgets and fashion articles have become shorter. This greater time
sensitivity helps explain why the distancedependence of trade goes up rather than

10/8/08 11:11:55 AM

183

Transport Costs and Specialization

down. If countries want to benefit from
current trends of globalization, regional
coordination of infrastructure investment
and transport policies becomes even more
important.49
How do increasing returns to scale in
production, the love of variety for consumer
and intermediate inputs, and lower transport costs drive concentrations of economic
activities in geographic space? First, differentiated products and increasing returns
to scale will increase productivity more in
larger areas or countries than in smaller
ones, even if they have identical per capita
resources and access to the same technology. The important dimension of size is
the volume of overall demand or economic
mass, not the size of the land area. When
such agglomeration forces are considered,
both Hong Kong, China, and Singapore are
viewed as “large.”
Second, the larger a region, the more
varieties or intermediates will be produced
locally. Compared with smaller regions,
fewer goods have to be imported, saving on
transport costs. People with equal nominal
incomes thus have a higher real income in
the larger regions, and fi rms realize cost
savings.
Third, the higher real incomes will lead
to in-migration, putting pressure on local
wages. Lower wages will attract more firms,
making the larger market even larger and
leading to a new round of circular causation of firm relocation, higher real incomes,
and a larger market. Chapter 9 discusses in
more detail how developing countries can
address the challenging task of regional
integration, learning from the experiences
with institutional cooperation, regional
infrastructure, and coordinated incentives
around the world.

Falling transport costs lead to
concentration within countries
The productivity and income benefits of
agglomeration, driven largely by lower
transport costs, are often difficult for planners and policy makers to accept. But they
explain the second counterintuitive implication of falling transport costs. There is
a strong belief that an equal distribution
of transport infrastructure will induce an

WDR09_12_Ch06.indd 183

Figure 6.5

Global intraindustry trade is no longer confined to rich countries

Grubel-Lloyd Index, 5-digit
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
0
1962

1966

1970

1974

1978

1982

High-income to high-income
Medium-income to high-income
Low-income to medium-income

1986
Year

1990

1994

1998

2002

2006

Low-income to high-income
Low-income to low-income
Medium-income to medium-income

Source: Brülhart 2008 for this Report.
Note: The Grubel-Lloyd index is the fraction of total trade that is accounted for by intraindustry trade.

equal geographic distribution of economic
activities. High concentration is seen as a
problem, and the spatial redistribution
of economic mass is expected to promote
overall development. Massive transport
infrastructure investments have been the
central policy instrument to induce fi rms
to move to lagging regions. But the outcomes were usually the opposite—the target regions lost production and workers to
the leading regions (see box 6.4).
Knowledge-sharing is another force
shaping the economic geography of countries and areas. Technical know-how can
be used by more users at no or small extra
cost. It is embedded in an experienced
workforce, and the accumulated stock of
knowledge leads to innovation. Larger
local labor markets increase knowledge
spillovers between workers and thus
increase productivity nonlinearly.50 In big
cities the benefits may not fully materialize because congestion and fragmentation
hinder interaction. But well-functioning
urban transport systems can increase
the effectiveness of the labor market and
spread the results of learning on the job
(see box 6.5).
Falling transport costs enhance localization economies in the production of knowledge and information—say, for business,

10/8/08 11:11:55 AM

184

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

B OX 6.4

Italy’s intervento straordinario: an unexpected response to falling transport costs

Regional disparities are caused by the
unequal distribution of infrastructure,
and infrastructure investment in lagging areas will reduce these imbalances.
That is the common assumption. But,
frequently, the industries intended to
prosper from these investments move
elsewhere, accompanied by a mass outmigration of workers. A prime example is
the Italian regional policy to reduce the
development differences between the
North and the South. The Mezzogiorno
has become a generic term for a region
that suffered from the good intentions of
regional policy.a
A short-term intervento straordinario was
managed by a special agency, the Cassa per
il Mezzogiorno, set up in 1950. It was supported by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), led by
Paul Rosenstein-Rodan, who developed the
Big Push Model of economic development
in the 1940s. The development impact
was to come from massive infrastructure
investment, with much emphasis on road
building and railways. It soon became obvious that short-term success would not be
achievable, leading to repeated redefinitions of the strategic directions. By the mid1950s, the Cassa shifted its focus to supporting industry investment, concentrating
on “nuclei” and priority areas.
The result was that through the 1950s
about 2 million workers left the target
regions. By the end of the 1960s, the
emigration was perceived to be the main
development problem, and infrastructure
investment and subsidies were concen-

trated on the areas where emigration was,
in fact, highest.b From the beginning of the
1980s, when the original mandate of the
Cassa ended, it was kept alive by 11 ministerial decrees. In 1986 the “extraordinary
intervention” was refinanced up to 1993.
The total annual expenditures of the
Cassa rose to a peak of 3,750 billion lire
(US$4.5 billion) in 1976, declining to 2,650
billion lire (US$2.1 billion) in 1991, and collapsing afterward. The money had little
effect on economic indicators in the Mezzogiorno (see box table).
The unemployment rate fell until the
beginning of the 1970s because of the outmigration of millions of workers to Northern
Italy and other countries. It then more than
doubled up to the end of the 1980s, indicating a rapidly growing dependence of the
South on fiscal transfers from the North.
Scandals surrounding the Cassa per il
Mezzogiorno were disclosed as part of
tangentopoli (“bribesville”) by the efforts

Source: WDR 2009 team.
a. Boltho, Carlin, and Scaramozzino 1997;
Sinn and Frank 2001.
b. By that time, some critics of the Mezzogiorno policy demanded that funds
assist outmigration (Lutz 1962).

Economic development of the Mezzogiorno
1951–60

1961–70

1971–80

1981–90

1990

The South’s share of the national total (%)
Population

37.2

36.0

35.1

36.1

36.6

GDP per capita

54.5

56.6

58.6

58.2

56.7

Fixed investment

26.0

29.0

31.2

29.0

26.9

South

9.1

6.4

9.6

16.3

19.7

Center-North

6.8

4.5

5.2

7.6

6.5

Unemployment

Source: Faini, Giannini, and Galli 1993.

professional, and technical services. Lower
communication costs might be expected
to lead to a footloose tradable service sector. But most communication-intensive
industries remain strongly agglomerated.51 A main reason for the persistence of
agglomeration economies in knowledge
production is that verifying the quality of
information requires understanding and
relationships of trust. Informal networks
work as screening devices to build up trust
in a group of knowledge producers.52 And
lower urban transport costs increase the
size of networks.

WDR09_12_Ch06.indd 184

of the mani puliti (“clean hands”) of the
country’s judiciary. These scandals contributed to the dissolution of the Christian
Democratic Party and the Socialist Party
and to the emergence of the Northern
League, which demanded the separation
of the North from the South to end the
waste in the Mezzogiorno. An intervention
to make the country more uniform may
have increased internal divisions.
Chapter 8, “Unity, Not Uniformity,”
discusses how countries have promoted
national integration by using a calibrated
blend of spatially blind institutions, connective infrastructure, and spatially targeted interventions.

What to do: transport policies in
the developing world
What do these events and insights mean
for developing countries? Trade costs have
fallen because of lower transport and communication costs, higher quality, and faster
speed. But all countries have not benefited
equally. Transport costs have fallen faster
where the demand for transport services is
greater. Increasing scale in traded production has raised competitiveness and allowed
scale economies in the transport sector.
The resulting lower trade and transport
costs encourage trade and allow greater

10/8/08 11:11:55 AM

185

Transport Costs and Specialization

B OX 6.5

Mobility with density in Hong Kong, China

Hong Kong, China, in the second half of
the 1970s, had real growth of about 10
percent a year, an influx of immigrants,
and roaring demand for private cars. Car
registrations more than doubled in a
decade. The results were huge time losses
for passengers and freight transporters
and health costs of air pollution. The
Transport Department in Hong Kong,
China, reacted with draconian measures.
In 1979, it defined a transport policy
to increase road capacity, expand and
improve the mass transit system, and better manage the road capacity.
The government trebled the annual
license fee for cars, doubled the first
registration fee (to 70 to 90 percent
of the import price of a vehicle), and
doubled fuel taxes. Private and public
vehicle ownership fell quickly. In 1985 the
share of private cars in registered cars
had fallen to 50 percent, 10 percent of
them taxis.a The public transport system
consists of a 74-kilometer underground
mass-transit railway, a 34-kilometer heavy
rail line (linking Kowloon with China),
a 32-kilometer light-rail system in the
northwest of the New Territories, and a

16-kilometer tram in the North Side of
Hong Kong Island. Five private bus companies operate franchised services with
more than 6,000 buses. They are complemented by minibuses (public light buses)
with fixed fares and exclusive rights to
provide service on certain routes. Entry to
this submarket is strictly regulated, with
a maximum number of minibuses set for
the city’s quarters.b Switching between
different modes or submodes does not
lead to big time losses.
Road pricing failed politically in 1985.
One reason was the opening of the
Island Route of the Mass Transit Railway,
which carried about a quarter of all
public transport boardings in 1988, and
the Island Eastern Corridor a year earlier. Both eased congestion. Today, road
charges in Hong Kong, China, are seen
as a device not to reduce congestion
but to curtail air pollution and maintain the city’s attractiveness. It ranks
fifth in the infrastructure index of the
global competitiveness report, with a
score of 6.2 out of 7, and first in product
market efficiency and financial market
sophistication.

specialization and exchange. Some countries such as China and Chile have broken
into international markets and benefited
from lower transport costs. But most of
the others have not. In much of Africa, this
cumulative causation has hurt, not helped,
because agglomeration economies in Africa’s divided neighborhoods remain small.
By increasing local market interactions
and reducing intercity and interarea distances and international divisions, transport
policies in developing countries can get these
virtuous circles started. Improving physical
infrastructure is an indispensable part of
transport policy. Indeed, chapters 7, 8, and
9 discuss the need for spatially connective
infrastructure in the local, national, and
international contexts. But other important
aspects of transport and communications
policies are often neglected.
The new economic geography has highlighted what transport costs do for economic growth. Inadvertently, though, it

WDR09_12_Ch06.indd 185

The experience in Hong Kong, China,
provides these lessons for the rapidly
growing cities in the developing world:
• There is a limit to mobility and accessibility by private car in megacities. Even
without congestion charging and the
pricing of parking, strong fiscal disincentives can contain motorization in a phase
of rapid income growth and limit the
share of private cars in urban transport.
• Buses, and particularly minibuses, can be
regulated to avoid congestion and high
travel costs. Even with regulation, almost
all public transport can be profitable.
• Along with policies to contain motorization, new traffic management instruments can make more effective use of
existing infrastructure.
Chapter 7 discusses, for countries at
various stages of urbanization, the institutions, infrastructure, and incentives
that can facilitate concentration without
congestion.
Source: WDR 2009 team.
a. Hau 1990.
b. Cullinane 2002.

has contributed to an exaggerated focus
of transport policy on physical improvements. And by using techniques that essentially assumed away the internal workings
of transport—the goods to be transported
are seen as an iceberg to be hauled from one
place to another, and transport costs are
the part of the iceberg that melts away—
the most critical policy-related aspects also
have been assumed away. The fundamental
features that deserve the attention of policy
makers are the scale economies in the transport sector that tend to create monopolistic
behavior, and the circular causation between
lower transport costs and greater trade and
traffic. Another underemphasized aspect is
the external cost of transport and communications, notably the congestion, pollution,
and safety-related hazards.
The two neglected policy priorities are
(1)reducing the negative effects of market
structure in the transport sector and (2)
improving trade facilitation and regional

10/8/08 11:11:55 AM

186

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

coordination. Both will promote agglomerative forces and will sometimes provide
greater payoffs than more physical infrastructure investments. A third policy priority is to address the negative externalities
in transport.

Regulating transport to get the benefits
of scale economies
Markets for transport services rarely are perfectly competitive, with major differences
between the different modes. Competition
in the trucking industry increased because of
deregulation,53 but there is a tendency toward
consolidated ownership in many countries.
In railways and airlines, markets remain
dominated by state-owned enterprises.54 In
the airline and maritime transport industries, market segmentation allows providers
to discriminate between different goods.55
These observations suggest firm-level size
advantages in transport operations.
Transport providers consolidate power
by owning infrastructure. In 1980 the top
20 percent of the world’s carriers controlled
just 26 percent of the global port slot capacity. By 1992 this had increased to 42 percent, and by 2003, to 58 percent. It may be
even higher today.
Infrastructure services are not provided
in competitive markets because the indivisibility of infrastructure facilities naturally
precludes competition. At early stages of
development, the demand for ports, roads,
and telecommunication equipment does
not exhaust minimum capacities. As traffic
increases, so does productivity. This is ultimately balanced by increasing time losses
caused by congestion—as diseconomies
of scale set in. Recent developments have
made the advantages of large ports and
airports even more pronounced—and the
technological progress in shipping has reinforced the cost advantages of large ports
(see box 6.3). Assessing the size of these
scale effects is a daunting task, but studies have confirmed economies of scale and
spotlighted the indivisibility of transport
infrastructure.56
A second reason for limited competition
arises from “network economies.” Adding
a link to a road or rail network does not
just provide the benefits of connecting two

WDR09_12_Ch06.indd 186

places—it increases the value of all other
related connections by enhancing overall
connectivity. These effects can be large. One
estimate of the infrastructure-productivity
link for India found a sizable externality of
transport infrastructure. By providing a 5
percent rate of return on road infrastructure
investment over and above the direct payoff,
the network-related benefits accounted for
almost a quarter of the overall increase in
infrastructure productivity.57
The absence of effective regulation limits
competition in the transport sector and can
reduce the construction of new infrastructure. It may cause underinvestment in maintenance of existing infrastructure. A number
of studies have confirmed the tendency to
underprovide transport and telecommunication infrastructure in developing countries.58 Underinvestment in infrastructure
maintenance can be even more severe.
Actual expenditures for road maintenance
in Africa, for example, appear to have systematically fallen short of planned figures.59
It was estimated that $45 billion was lost in
road stock value during the 1970s and 1980s,
which could have been avoided by spending
$12 billion for preventive road maintenance.
Badly maintained roads increase transport
costs by increasing costs of maintaining
vehicles and reducing their speed. The direct
costs of badly maintained roads are thus
higher than the losses in cost-based road
asset values as recorded by the road administrations. On top of this, higher transport
costs slow the spatial transformation and
reduce gains from specialization.
The monopolistic sector also encourages corruption. In smaller markets, users
often have no substitutes for the services of
large ports and airports. The higher these
substitution costs, the higher the potential
for high markups or bribes, depending on
whether the infrastructure is private or
public. How much rent-seeking increases
transport costs is difficult to estimate. But
a recent World Bank study that reviewed
the main road corridors in all the regions
of Sub-Saharan Africa reveals big gaps
between prices for transport services and
their costs (see table 6.1). The surplus is
shared among bribes, regulatory rents, and
transport company profits.

10/8/08 11:11:56 AM

187

Transport Costs and Specialization

Table 6.1

Prices, costs, and profit margins are all high on Africa’s transport corridors

Corridor (countries)

Route
(gateway–destination)

Pricea
(US$ per kilometer)

Variable cost
(US$ per kilometer)

Fixed cost
(US$ per kilometer)

Profit marginb
(percent)

West Africa
(Burkina Faso, Mali, and
Ghana)

Tema/Accra–Ouagadougou

3.53
(2.01)

1.54
(0.59)

0.66
(0.64)

80

Tema/Accra–Bamako

3.93
(1.53)

1.67
(0.23)

0.62
(0.36)

80

Central Africa
(Cameroon, Central African
Republic, and Chad)

Douala–N’Djaména

3.19
(1.10)

1.31
(0.32)

0.57
(0.30)

73

Douala–Bangui

3.78
(1.30)

1.21
(0.35)

1.08
(0.81)

83

Ngaoundéré–N’Djaména

5.37
(1.44)

1.83
(0.25)

0.73
(0.44)

118

Ngaoundéré–Moundou

9.71
(2.58)

2.49
(0.64)

1.55
(0.43)

163

Mombasa–Kampala

2.22
(1.08)

0.98
(0.47)

0.35
(0.14)

86

Mombasa–Nairobi

2.26
(1.36)

0.83
(0.17)

0.53
(0.19)

66

Lusaka–Johannesburg

2.32
(1.59)

1.54
(0.41)

0.34
(0.40)

18

Lusaka–Dar-es-Salaam

2.55
(0.08)

1.34
(0.52)

0.44
(0.51)

62

East Africa
(Kenya and Uganda)

Southern Africa
(South Africa, Zambia, and
Tanzania)

Source: World Bank 2008d.
a. Some indicative prices are set by some ministries of transportation in Africa but are not used. Prices set by freight allocation bureaus in Central Africa may be more respected.
b. Data should be interpreted cautiously since some companies may omit some costs or, on the contrary, double count some costs.

Transport infrastructure and service
providers are not the only ones extracting
bribes and enjoying extranormal profits.
The Improved Road Transport Governance Initiative in West Africa monitors
road practices harmful to trade on interstate trunk roads between Burkina Faso,
Ghana, Mali, and Togo (see map 6.2). In
Mali, truckers face 4.6 checkpoints, pay
$25, and waste 38 minutes for every 100
kilometers traveled. Internal or distancerelated costs are compounded by costs
imposed by the divisions of international
borders.

Map 6.2 Crossing borders or climbing walls?
Checkpoints on priority transport corridors
NIGER

Ouahigouya
Ségou

Niamey

BURKINA
FASO

Bamako

Ouagadougou

MALI
Sikasso

Bobo
Dioulasso

BENIN
G H A NA
GUINEA

Korhogo

NIGERIA

CÔTE D'IVOIRE

National efforts and regional
coordination to facilitate trade
Trade facilitation has become the most
important policy instrument to achieve
gains from international trade—improving the efficiency of ports, harmonizing
standards, reducing bureaucratic burdens
to cross borders, and coordinating behind
the border regulatory norms (see box 6.6).
Since August 2004, trade facilitation has
moved to the center of the Doha Round

WDR09_12_Ch06.indd 187

Checkpoints
Bouaké
Police
Customs
Gendarmerie
Other: Transport department,
trade unions, forestry department,
health
Subject road network

TOGO
Ibadan

Kumasi

Lomé

PortoNovo

Lagos

Tema

Abidjan

Accra
SekondiTakoradi

Source: Improved Road Transport Governance Project, USAID West African Trade Hub 2007.

10/8/08 1:54:50 PM

188

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

B OX 6.6

Neighborhoods matter, but so do trade and transport policies

Proximity to prosperous places can be
a blessing, and to poor places, a curse.
The box map illustrates the advantage
of being in good neighborhoods. It
shows the foreign market potential
across the world, using an index that
combines geographic proximity (distance) and policies to reduce trade barriers (divisions).
But good location is not enough. Even
within the geographically fortunate

neighborhoods of Central America,
North Africa, and Southeast Asia, Mexico,
Tunisia, and Malaysia have the highest
market access. Their rankings in the
World Bank’s Doing Business indicators—
especially those related to trading across
borders—are among the highest in their
regions. Unsurprisingly, their recent
growth performance has been impressive, and their living standards have
improved.

Algeria and Indonesia have the same
location as Tunisia and Malaysia, but they
do not do as well in business and trade
policies. Their market access indicators
are accordingly lower than those of their
neighbors. Sri Lanka and Ghana also do
not do well in market access; they have
good business and trade policies, but are
not fortunate in location.
Sources: Mayer 2008; World Bank 2007d.

Being near prosperous places is important, but not enough
Foreign market potential, 2003

Foreign market potential
relative to U.S. Level
< 0.760
0.760–1.110
1.111–1.670
1.671–4.570
> 4.571
No data

Sources: Mayer 2008 for this Report.
Note: To compute foreign market potential, each country is assigned a score for the size of international markets with which it can trade. This is computed by weighting
the GDP of other countries by the inverse of a measure that combines physical distance, transport costs, and barriers to trade to show how difficult it is to access these
markets. The measure, which is expressed relative to the foreign market potential of the United States, essentially combines the two spatial dimensions of distance and
division into a composite of potential market access that does not include the effect of the home market (density). This map is a complement to map 9.2 showing Real
Market Access.

of the World Trade Organization. Recent
World Bank studies have identified several
measures of trade facilitation as the main
entry points for policy reform:

•

•

WDR09_12_Ch06.indd 188

Port efficiency—an average of the efficiency of port, inland waterway, and air
transport facilities, based on data from
the World Competitiveness Report
Customs regimes—the hidden import
barriers other than published tariffs
and quotas, and irregular side payments

•

or bribes connected with import and
export permits
Information technology (IT) infrastructure—a measure of the speed and the
cost of Internet access and the contribution of the Internet to the reduction of
inventory costs

Improving trade facilitation capacity in
75 countries to half the global average could,
as one study suggests, yield a $377 billion
increase in world trade.60 Another study

10/8/08 11:11:56 AM

189

Transport Costs and Specialization

showed that new and old EU member countries would benefit from trade facilitation
measures in what were then the accession
member countries, Bulgaria, Romania, and
Turkey.61 If these countries reached half the
trade facilitation standards of the EU-15 in
terms of port efficiency, IT infrastructure,
customs regimes, and harmonized regulation, it would lead to $10 billion in overall
trade gains. Among the four dimensions
of trade facilitiation, improvement of IT
infrastructure would result in the highest
trade gains (40 percent) followed by port
efficiency improvements (30 percent).
Port efficiency improvements require
both institutional and infrastructure
investments. Maritime transport accounts
for 90 percent of world trade by volume.62
Access to a well-run port may not guarantee export-oriented agglomerations,
but these agglomerations certainly will
not emerge without it. Private participation will be feasible where trade volumes
are sufficiently high, but public support is
Table 6.2

needed elsewhere. This is also true for other
hub infrastructure such as airports, which
are increasingly important for trade in lowweight, high-value goods and to support
booming export-oriented services that need
efficient air travel. In 2007 passenger traffic
at Bangalore’s airport jumped 35 percent.
With the fall of effective rates in international freight transport, time costs in
international transport have become more
important relative to the direct money
costs.63 International transport suffers from
the extra time cost of border-crossing procedures. These time costs depend not just
on the customs and fiscal rules of crossing
the border but also on a host of behind-theborder elements concerning regulation and
the supply of services.64
Among the poorest performers: the time
costs of transport range from 46 days in the
Democratic Republic of Congo to 104 days in
Uzbekistan, set against the Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development
(OECD) average of 9.8 days (see table 6.2).

Time costs for crossing borders are highest in Central Asia, Central Africa, East Africa, and Southern Africa

Country

Documents for exports

Days

Country
Uzbekistan

Documents for imports

Days

Iraq

10

102

11

104

Kazakhstan

12

89

Chad

9

102

Tajikistan

10

82

Iraq

10

101

Uzbekistan

7

80

Tajikistan

11

83

Chad

6

78

Kazakhstan

14

76

Afghanistan

12

67

Kyrgyz Republic

13

75

Angola

12

64

Afghanistan

11

71

Kyrgyz Republic

13

64

Burundi

10

71

Eritrea

9

59

Eritrea

13

69

Niger

8

59

Rwanda

9

69

10

58

Niger

10

68

Central African Republic

Mongolia

8

57

Zimbabwe

13

67

Azerbaijan

9

56

Central African Republic

18

66

Zambia

8

53

Congo, Dem. Rep. of

9

66

Haiti

8

52

Venezuela, R.B. de

9

65

Zimbabwe

9

52

Mali

11

65

11

50

Zambia

11

64

Lao PDR

9

50

Congo, Rep. of

12

62

Burundi

9

47

Mongolia

10

59

Rwanda

9

47

Angola

9

58

Congo, Dem. Rep. of

8

46

Azerbaijan

14

56

Congo, Rep. of

Sources: World Bank 2007d.

WDR09_12_Ch06.indd 189

10/8/08 11:11:56 AM

190

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Most of the slowest border crossings occur
in Sub-Saharan African or Central Asian
countries, many of which are landlocked.
Having little control over other aspects of
trade costs, such as transport over land to
the nearest port, landlocked countries could
be more aggressive with the trade facilitation
policies that they do have control to improve.
They could also benefit from a more explicit
regional perspective. A variety of transit rules
are recognized by international law and declarations, such as the “Almaty Programme of
Action.”65 Corridor facilitation and monitoring initiatives, such as those envisaged under
the Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Program,
could reduce the risk of coordination failures,
but enforcement has been weak.66
Even for fairly small coastal countries,
regional approaches can be beneficial. Since
increases in trade produce scale economies
in transport, hub infrastructure is most
beneficial if it is shared by as many market
participants as possible. Few countries in
West or East Africa, if any, can support a
medium-size, deep-water container port on
their own. But a shared port with a large
catchment area would be more likely to
support agglomeration, if costs and access
are distributed among coastal countries
and their landlocked neighbors. Sharing is
not easy, however, because of the domestic
bias of national infrastructure policies.

Addressing the negative externalities
of transport
Efficient transport provides external benefits that go beyond simple time savings or
lower maintenance; these benefits are often
underappreciated. But transport also has
external costs that usually are not internalized by transporters and traders.67 Congestion and greenhouse gas emissions affect
both developed and developing countries,
but the direct health-related costs of pollution and poor safety are generally highest in
developing countries.
Congestion. The lumpiness of transport infrastructure implies that there is no
smooth and immediate supply response
when demand increases. With overcapacity,
the extra cost could be spread over a larger
number of users. With insufficient capacity,
congestion causes time and quality losses,

WDR09_12_Ch06.indd 190

the case in many rapidly growing developing countries. Estimating the costs of congestion is not straightforward, because it
occurs mostly during certain times of the
day, often caused by specific bottlenecks
in the network. One study of Washington,
D.C., congestion put these costs at $0.065
per mile.68
Emissions. With growing concerns about
climate change, the transport sector—a visible consumer of fossil fuels—has been getting more scrutiny. The largest share of these
emissions is generated in industrialized countries. But with rising motorization in many
developing countries, the world’s vehicle fleet
will rapidly grow, and so will emissions. Most
estimates of greenhouse gas emissions from
transport are close to 13.5 percent of the total
(see figure 6.6). One integrated assessment
study puts the population-weighted expected
global costs of a 2.5° C warming in 2100 at 2
percent of world GDP.69 Half of this is caused
by abrupt climate change, including the possible spread of tropical disease, especially in
Africa. Other costs are incurred in agriculture (less than 10 percent) and from rising
seas (6 percent).
What would internalizing these costs
mean for the overall costs of transport?
Estimates vary. A meta-analysis of earlier
estimates suggests a current upper bound
of $50 per ton of carbon.70 The Stern Review
(2007) puts the total damage from future
warming at 5–20 percent of world GDP in
perpetuity and infers a current social cost
equivalent of $311 per ton of carbon. With
a gallon of gasoline containing 0.0024 tons
of carbon, damage of $50 per ton of carbon would translate into $0.12 per gallon
of gasoline (or $0.03 per liter) and damage
of $300 into $0.72 a gallon ($0.19 a liter).
Internalizing the carbon dioxide (CO2)
costs of transport would thus increase
transport costs by an amount well within
historical gasoline price variations. Efforts
to increase fuel efficiency have been under
way for the past three decades, aided at least
as much by fuel taxes and efficiency regulations as by the rising price of oil.
Pollution. Gasoline vehicles emit carbon
monoxide (CO), nitrogen oxides (NOx),
and hydrocarbons (HC). CO reduces oxygen in the bloodstream, causing breathing

10/8/08 11:11:57 AM

191

Transport Costs and Specialization

Figure 6.6 Transport accounts for about one-seventh of CO2 emissions
Sources of greenhouse gas emissions, 2005
Sector

E N E R G Y

Transportation

Electricity & heat

End use/activity

Road

9.9%

Air
Rail, ship, & other transport

1.6%
2.3%

Residential buildings

9.9%

Commercial buildings

5.4%

Unallocated fuel combustion

3.5%

Iron & steel

3.2%

13.5%

24.6%

Aluminum/non-ferrous metals
Machinery
Pulp, paper & printing

Food & tobacco

Other fuel
combustion

Industry

9.0%

10.4%

Fugitive emissions

3.9%

Industrial processes

3.4%

4.8%

Cement

3.8%

Other industry

5.0%

T&D losses

1.9%

Oil/gas extraction, refining
& processing

Deforestation
Afforestation
Reforestation
Harvest/management
Other

18.2%

Agricultural energy use

Agriculture

Carbon dioxide
(CO2) 77%

1.4%

6.3%

18.3%
-1.5%
-0.5%
2.5%
-0.6%

HFCs, PFCs,
SF6 1%

1.4%

Agriculture soils

6.0%

Livestock & manure

5.1%

Methane
(CH4) 14%

13.5%

Rice cultivation
Other agriculture

Waste

1.4%
1.0%
1.0%
1.0%

Chemicals

Coal mining

Land use change

Gas

Landfills
Wastewater, other waste

3.6%

1.5%
0.9%

2.0%
1.6%

Nitrous oxide
(N2O) 8%

Source: World Resources Institute; see Baumert, Herzog, and Pershing 2005.

difficulty and cardiovascular damage. HC
and NOx combine to form ozone, making
breathing harder and reducing visibility.
NOx and HC also react to form fi ne particulate matter (PM2.5), small enough to
enter lung tissue and increase mortality
risks. Vehicle emissions of all local pollutants have fallen in developed countries,
but they remain high elsewhere. Diseases
related to air pollution contribute to the
premature death of more than half a million people each year, imposing a cost of
up to 2 percent of GDP in many developing
countries. Transport may be responsible for
about a quarter of this impact, mainly from
private and commercial vehicles.71
Accidents. Similar to local air pollution,
developed countries with high but stable
motorization have reduced road fatalities

WDR09_12_Ch06.indd 191

and injuries. But in developing and transition countries, these rates are increasing.
The rate of road fatalities in the Russian
Federation, for example, is five times that
of the Netherlands. Some 1.2 million people die in road accidents each year, and 90
percent occur in low- and middle-income
countries. World Bank projections suggest an increase by more than 80 percent
between 2000 and 2020 in these countries,
but a decrease of 30 percent in high-income
countries. For every death, there are many
cases of injury and disablement. Projected
health losses from traffic accidents as a
share of the total health losses are highest in the Middle East and North Africa
(5 percent)—expected to rise to 8 percent—followed by Latin America and the
Caribbean and East Asia and the Pacific (3

10/8/08 11:11:57 AM

192

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

B OX 6.7

Unclogging Latin America’s arteries: transport costs now matter more than tariffs

For the last two decades, the trade policy
agenda of Latin America has been dominated by traditional market access and
policy barriers issues. It has paid off. Tariffs
have come down a lot. Most-favored-nation tariffs fell from more than 40 percent
in the mid-1980s to close to 10 percent by
2000. Still, trade agreements continue to
dominate policy discussions in the region.
But transport costs are now more
important than tariffs. Simple averages
of import ad valorem freight range from
6.5 percent in Argentina to 12 percent in
Colombia for intraregional freight, and
from 7.5 percent in Uruguay to 25 percent
in landlocked Paraguay. Freight costs
in Latin America and the Caribbean for
exports to the United States are—with
the exception of Bolivia, Mexico, and
República Bolivariana de Venezuela—
even higher than intraregional freight.
Low port efficiency and weak competition in the maritime transport sector
seem to be the culprits (see figure to the
right). On average, transport costs in Latin
America would decline by 20 percent if
countries in the region had U.S. levels of
port efficiency.

Source: Inter-American Development Bank,
forthcoming.

Transport costs now matter more for trade
Percentage change in transport costs by making port efficiency, tariff rates, and number of
shippers the same as U.S. levels, base year 2005
Percent
50
Port efficiency
Tariff
Number of shippers

40
30
20
10
0

Peru

Ecuador

Latin America
& Caribbean

Uruguay

Chile

Brazil

Source: Inter-American Development Bank, forthcoming.

percent), then Africa, Eastern Europe and
Central Asia, and South Asia (2 percent).
Fatality risks are highest where motorization rates are rapidly increasing, because
of long lags in implementing road safety
measures. The transport sector can thus
impose a cost on development. To what
extent accident costs are “external” depends
on how well insurance markets can cover
the external costs, but even where those
markets do not work well, road safety measures can protect pedestrians, cyclists, and
other drivers from the reckless.

Transport: an increasingly
important sector
For most modes of transport, costs have
declined in many markets. Still, those costs
are becoming a larger share of overall trade
costs because of steeper declines in tariffs
in regions such as Latin America and the
Caribbean (see box 6.7). And with fuel costs
rising, transport’s share will rise even more.

WDR09_12_Ch06.indd 192

reduction in tariffs, the benefits of a fall in
transport costs for intraregional exports
are almost five times larger and lead to
an increase in the number of products
exported to the region, which is nine times
bigger than a similar reduction in tariffs.

A reduction of transport costs would
bring about substantial benefits. A
10-percent decrease in trade costs would
increase the region’s imports by 50 percent and intraregional exports by more
than 60 percent. The benefits of better
transport policies seem to be much larger
than lower tariffs. Compared with a similar

What is needed for transport to continue to
contribute to development?
Poor countries become big producers
before they become big consumers. Income
generation by importing intermediate goods
and raw materials and exporting processed
goods will be important. The relocation of
intermediate production processes to middle- and low-income countries indicates
the enormous potential benefits from integration into world markets even for these
countries, limited mainly by transport
and communications costs. But achieving
this raises difficult institutional questions.
The provision of access to foreign markets
implies that some of the benefits of transport policies will accrue to foreign countries. Coordinating international transport
policies thus requires a growing confidence
in reciprocal support for international
transport.
The increasing returns to scale in transport add two more coordination problems.

10/8/08 11:11:57 AM

Transport Costs and Specialization

The scale of least-cost port and airport
investments calls for hub-and-spoke transport systems in which neighboring countries share facilities. Because ownership of
large infrastructure facilities provides market power, the sharing of facilities requires
credible agreements. Increasing returns in
transport operations—with maritime shipping supplied by a small number of fi rms
and logistics services being consolidated
in fewer hands—may require regulatory
regimes to realize the potential for lower
transport costs. The mutual dependence
of transport policy and competition policy
implies a global effort, such as that started
by some multilateral organizations.
Transport and communication costs will
remain a principal influence on the speed
and efficiency of the spatial transformations
needed for growth. Countries at different
stages of transformation will have to formulate different policies for reducing transport
costs. East, South, and Central Asia illustrate
the contrasts:

•

Developing countries in East Asia are now
closer to world markets, as Japan and the
Republic of Korea have prospered, and

WDR09_12_Ch06.indd 193

•

•

193

their transport costs to North America
and Western Europe have fallen. They have
joined the growing trade in intermediate
and final manufactured goods. Countries
such as Tunisia can do the same.
In South Asia, falling trade and communication costs have helped India enter
western markets for intermediate services, eliminating some of the disadvantages of being distant. Countries such as
South Africa can do the same, exploiting
their home market potential.
In Central Asia—with economies that
are small, landlocked, and dependent on
exports of primary products such as oil
and gas—reducing transport costs will
be more difficult. It will also be difficult
for smaller countries in divided neighborhoods, such as Burkina Faso, Malawi,
Niger, and Rwanda. These countries will
need aggressive measures to lessen the
trade friction, enforceable agreements
with neighbors to share expensive infrastructure, and selected investments to
encourage agglomeration and reduce
the transport costs for primary goods
exports.

10/8/08 11:11:57 AM

Geography in motion

Distance and Division in East Asia
When Admiral Zheng He brought a giraffe to Nanjing in 1415, it was believed to be a heavenly beast, associated with great peace
and prosperity. It also marked the heyday of Chinese influence in East Asia and the region’s wealth relative to the rest of the world.
China at the time was probably the world’s largest economy, enjoying the highest standard of material, living with flourishing art
and education and advances in a range of technologies. Its naval skills had enabled voyages to places as far away as Africa.

C

hina alone may have accounted
for one-third of global manufacturing. This was not to last.
A hundred years later, a new emperor
destroyed Zheng He’s navigation logs
and slashed the navy to one-tenth its
size, believing that the costs of foreign expeditions outweighed the benefits. China entered centuries of selfimposed isolation, broken in infamous
and damaging fashion by the British
during the Opium Wars of the nineteenth century.

East Asia’s age of isolationism
China was not alone in trying to shut
out the rest of the world. In Japan,
Tokugawa Iemitsu issued the “Closed
Country Edict of 1635” and the “Exclusion of the Portuguese, 1639,” effectively
shutting off Japan to external influences
for the next two centuries. The edicts
not only prevented foreign entry into
Japan but also banned Japanese from
going abroad. The dislike of all things
Western extended to technology. In
an extraordinary attempt to preserve
its culture and social hierarchy, Japan
gradually abolished the gun in favor of
the more elegant and symbolic samurai
sword.
These extreme examples show the
vast division between countries in East
Asia, especially after the seventeenth
century. Scholars do not agree fully on
the economic effects of such division.
Some have argued that reductions in
living standards were significant during

WDR09_13_GIM03.indd 194

the Qing and Tokugawa periods. Others
believe that it is more apt to characterize these societies as having stagnant
rather than declining economies. In any
event, wage levels in Japan and China at
the start of the nineteenth century were
well below those in London or Amsterdam, even in real terms, perhaps by as
much as 50 percent.1 Adam Smith had
already recognized this: “The difference
between the money price of labour in
China and Europe is still greater than
that between the money price of subsistence; because the real recompence
of labour is higher in Europe than in
China.”2
Smith was correct. Even before the
Industrial Revolution, parts of Europe
had advanced beyond Asia in their living standards. He was also right in writing about China as a unified economy.
The mandarins of China kept exceptional records of wages paid to armorers
and other craftsmen providing services
to the government. These show little
regional difference despite the vast distances within imperial China. Only the
less dense, sparsely populated northern
areas had somewhat higher wages.
By the middle of the nineteenth century, real wages in Canton and Tokyo,
the most advanced cities in Asia, were
only as high as in small European cities like Milan and Leipzig. Elsewhere in
East Asia living standards were lower
still. The old Chinese tributary states
had been colonized, and Asian countries
were further divided (see map G3.1).

Shortly thereafter, most of Europe went
through the Industrial Revolution,
and the “great divide” between Europe
and Asia widened, with widespread
advances in European wages and gross
domestic product (GDP). According
to Angus Maddison (2006), East Asia’s
share of global GDP, constant at around
40 percent between 1500 and 1800, fell
to less than 15 percent by 1950.

Fifty years of Asian integration
Fast forward to today. East Asian economies have become integrated through
a dense array of regional production
networks. These supply chains started
with outsourcing by Japanese multinationals in the 1980s, as wages and land
costs in the dense production area of
Tokyo grew prohibitive for competitive
manufacturing. In fact, economic congestion in Hong Kong, China; Japan; the
Republic of Korea; and Taiwan, China,
has resulted in spillovers—first to middle-income countries in Southeast Asia,
and then to China, as the barriers of economic ideology were reduced. Recently,
supply chains have centered on China
and the great assembly operations in
Guangdong and Shenzhen. As China has
matured, it too has become an exporter
of intermediates and capital equipment.
China is now the main trading partner
for Japan and the Republic of Korea and
sources more than half its rapidly growing imports from East Asia.
Intraregional trade in East Asia
today approximates that within the

10/8/08 11:15:15 AM

Geography in Motion

Map G3.1

Asia divided: conflict in the middle of the nineteenth century
Chinese territory lost
Chinese tributaries lost
Taiping rebels, 1853–64

Sakhalin

RUSSIA

MARITIME
PROV.

Hokkaido

TO RUSSIA

TO JAPAN

MANCHURIA

Vladivostok
Honshu

MONGOLIA

LIAOTUNG PENINSULA
(Russia)

(Russian sphere:
independant 1911)

KOREA

Peking

SINKIANG

Dairen

(Beijing)

(Dalian)
(Weihai)
(United Kingdom)

(Tianjin)

Muslim rebellion
1862-77

Nien rebellion
1853-68

CHINA

Shikoku

Weihaiwei

Tientsin

TIBET

JAPAN

Port Arthur
(Lüshun)(Russia)

Kyushu

Kiaochow Bay
(Germany)

Shanghai
Ningpo

Nanking

Okinawa

Hankow
Chungking

SIKKIM

Foochow

(Chongqing)

NEPAL

(Fuzhou)

BHUTAN
Taiwan
Canton
(Guangzhou)

Kowlong &
Hong Kong

(United Kingdom)

TO BRITAIN

Kwang-Chow
Bay (France)
Hainan

BURMA
I NDOCHI NA

Samar

Mindoro

SIAM
TO FRANCE
Andman
Islands

Luzon

PHILIPPINES
Palawan
Mindanao

Source: www.fordham.edu/halsall.

European Union (EU), growing consistently faster than that between East
Asia and other regions in the world.
East Asian countries are the source for
almost two-thirds of all foreign investment in the region. Even technology is
starting to originate within the region,
especially in key export industries such
as electronics. East Asian countries are
busily driving down divisions between
each other in the form of trade barriers and other border costs. They started
with world-class logistics in ports and
airports—albeit sometimes restricted
to special economic zones. And they
have continued with improvements

WDR09_13_GIM03.indd 195

in soft infrastructure, such as customs
reforms and visa exemptions within the
Association of Southeast Asian Nations
(ASEAN).
The falling division between countries in East Asia has coincided with
rapid growth across a diverse spectrum
ranging from Lao People’s Democratic
Republic with a per capita income
of $500 in 2006 to Singapore with a
per capita income of almost $30,000.
Within East Asia, incomes are slowly
converging: poor countries are growing faster than rich countries. Most
East Asian countries have followed
similar paths, starting with agricultural

195

intensification and rural industrialization, followed by urban expansion
and manufactured exports. There has
been learning from abroad—of new
technologies and of new institutions.
Exports have become more technologically complex. Middle-income countries have specialized in component
production, while rich Asian countries
have added more value through innovation, branding, and greater technological sophistication.
As the region has grown, it has developed a dynamic that reinforces growth.
ASEAN, China, Japan, and the Republic
of Korea are an economic mass comparable to North America in the 1990s.
As the center of gravity of the global
economy shifts toward the Pacific Rim,
global market access for everyone in
East Asia has improved.
The degree of intraregional trade in
East Asia may be considered surprising
given the history of divisive political
relationships between many East Asian
countries. In the Western Hemisphere,
the economic effects of conflict between
countries were overcome by formal
institutions of codified legal systems
and political agreements that governed
arm’s-length commercial transactions
and that could be readily expanded to
accommodate rapid growth in commerce and finance. In East Asia these
institutions have been slower to develop.
Instead, a long history of social networks, communities, and informal
institutions—with roots in the migrations over millennia of people from
Southeastern China to Southeast Asia—
provides the trust to support modern
international integration of goods and
money (see map G3.2).

The integration ahead—
the twin challenges of
distance and division
Peering into the future, the region
faces challenges on its path of rapid
integration.
The shift in economic density toward
the north poses a special challenge for
Southeast Asia. How can it remain

10/8/08 11:15:26 AM

196

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Geography in motion
Map G3.2

Asia integrated: trade at the end of the twentieth century

Total imports
(US$ billions)

>250
100–250
10–75
75–100
<10

RE
REP
P. OF
REP.
KOREA

JA
JAP
PAN
JAPAN

CHINA

HONG
KONG,
CHINA

THAILAND

TAIWAN,
CHINA

VIETNAM
PHILIPPINES
MAL
MALA
AYSIA
MALAYSIA

SINGAPORE
Bilateral import flows (US$ billions)
>150
100–150
25–50
10–25
50–100

INDONESIA

Source: Gill and Kharas 2007.

significant as an economic force in the
region? One answer perhaps lies in the
development of world-class cities. The
major metropolises of Southeast Asia
need to develop themselves into “sticky
places,” attracting and retaining global
talent. Meanwhile, the integration of
Australia and India into the region
might alter the dynamics of place, offsetting to some degree the northward drift
of Asia’s economic center of gravity.
The problems encountered by countries distant from the major markets of the
region are echoed in lagging areas within
countries. Significant poverty remains in

WDR09_13_GIM03.indd 196

East Asia, with high poverty rates in areas
like western China, southern and eastern
Philippines, Thailand’s northeast, and
Vietnam’s central highlands. The gap
between per capita incomes in the richest
and poorest provinces of China—negligible under the imperial dynasties of the
past—has swelled to 13.1:1 (compared
with 2.1:1 in the United States). Although
many have moved closer to prosperous
areas, overcoming the geographic distances that isolate these populations is
still seen as a major challenge.
Within East Asian countries, people are moving to the markets, and

markets are developing where people
are concentrated. Urbanization is large
and rapid in most countries, perhaps
adding 25 million city dwellers every
year for the next two decades. Most of
these people will move to small and
medium-size cities of less than 1 million people, not to major metropolitan
areas. Managing these small cities efficiently and integrating them into the
national economies will be a crucial
task for reducing distance and sustaining growth.
Meanwhile, East Asia still faces
strategic questions about how to bring
down divisions between countries in
the region. ASEAN’s two-speed process shows how hard it is for countries
with different incomes and economic
structures to integrate deeply. No formal process of economic integration
brings together all the economies of
the region. A first attempt to start a
regional dialogue was at the East Asia
Summit in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, in
December 2005. The summit called for
financial stability, energy security, poverty eradication, and narrowing gaps
between countries. It underscored the
challenges that still divide the region:
cross-border migration, environmental spillovers, diversity of governance
standards, and cultural understanding. Other interesting experiments to
foster regional integration are under
way, such as within ASEAN+3, but
the institutional leadership to forge a
common future is fragmented. Even
so, leading scholars have noted that
“the emergence of an integrated East
Asia is inevitable and necessary.”3 The
challenge is figuring out how to make
this happen quickly.
Contributed by Homi Kharas.

10/8/08 11:15:27 AM

Part Three
reframing the policy debates

Can crowded cities in developing countries pull people in and power them out of poverty?
Does migration help those who move and those left behind? How can trade help the
world’s wealthy and most destitute? What can policy makers do to address the three big
challenges facing the developing world—a billion slum dwellers, a billion people living
in remote and underserved areas, and the “bottom billion”? Part three of the Report
provides the answer: economic integration. How? By using spatially blind institutions,
spatially connective infrastructure, and spatially targeted incentives and calibrating the
response to the difficulty of integration. Chapter 7 explains what economic integration
means for metropolises, cities, towns, and villages. Chapter 8 proposes how integration
between economically leading and lagging areas can benefit everyone. Chapter 9
lays out the difficult steps needed to successfully integrate the world’s most isolated
countries. In doing so, the chapters in part three revisit and reframe long-standing policy
debates on urbanization, territorial development, and international integration.

WDR09_14_Part03.indd 197

10/9/08 11:27:17 AM

CHAPTER 7

Concentration
without Congestion
Policies for an inclusive urbanization

A

198

WDR09_15_Ch07.indd 198

team of urban experts, as part of
a routine exercise in 1974, forecast
the size of the world’s most populous cities in 2000. Kinshasa, the Democratic
Republic of Congo’s capital, would grow to 9
million, more than London today. Pakistan’s
Karachi would expand to 16 million, almost
as large as New York City. The forecasts were
way off (see figure 7.1). Kinshasa’s population is about half of London’s today, Karachi’s about half of New York City’s. Why
were the experts, generally good at forecasting national populations, so wrong in predicting city sizes?
The reason: forecasting the spatial distribution of people in a country is not the
same thing as predicting the size of its
population. As shown in earlier chapters,
spatial transformations—the growth of
cities and leading areas—are linked closely
to changes in the economy, especially the
sectoral transformations that accompany
growth and the opening of an economy to
foreign trade and investment. So predicting the size of a city is economic forecasting,
a hazardous occupation. Take Guangzhou
in China. Its population in 2000 was more
than a third larger than the 4.5 million
predicted in 1974. Beijing’s was half the 19
million predicted. The experts could not
have foreseen China’s economic liberalization and growth, which quickly would
change the country’s spatial structure. Simply extrapolating past trends, they should
instead have examined the market forces
of agglomeration, migration, and specialization—and the government policies that
help or hinder them.

Projections now suggest that cities in
developing countries will double in three
decades, adding another 2 billion people.
Indeed, large cities in developing countries
will grow bigger to provide the urbanization
economies sought by entrepreneurs, workers,
and innovators. But this will happen mostly
in economies that are doing well. Mediumsize cities remain the backbone of urban
systems, providing the localization economies that producers with more specialized
needs seek. But they will flourish only where
economies are industrializing. Smaller cities
and towns continue to serve and to depend
on surrounding rural settlements. But they
will grow rapidly only in areas where farms
and village economies are doing well.
The spatial transformations that lead
to the rise of cities and towns will not be
orderly. Informal settlements—slums and
shantytowns—may form and expand as the
rising demands of workers and firms outstrip the capacities of governments to institute well-functioning land markets and to
invest in infrastructure and accommodation.
If today’s developed countries are a guide, it
takes many decades to address within-city
disparities and to absorb informal settlements into more organized city structures.
Trying to restrict rural-urban migration can
be counterproductive. Why? Because limiting
density and diversity stifles innovation and
productivity.
Policy makers, if they are not careful, can
end up harming these transformations. By
not instituting flexible regulation and versatile land use conversion, they can make urban
areas inhospitable to firms and investors. By

10/9/08 4:27:09 PM

199

Concentration without Congestion

not providing adequate water, sanitation,
schools, and health care in rural areas, they
can prematurely push villagers to towns and
cities. By not investing enough in the infrastructure of rapidly growing cities, they can
encourage congestion. More generally, by
not responding appropriately to the needs of
spatial transformations for different types of
places, they cannot reap the full benefits of
density and diversity, which congestion and
division can undermine.
To help nations benefit from urbanization, this chapter proposes a policy framework—informed by the stylized facts of
spatial transformations (chapter 1) and the
insights about agglomeration economies
that drive these changes (chapter 4). It outlines the policy priorities and their sequencing, using the experiences of countries that
have urbanized well and of those that have
struggled. The main messages:

•

•

Rural-urban transformations are best
facilitated when policy makers recognize
the economic interdependence among
settlements. Within a country’s hierarchy of cities, towns, and villages, each
specializes in a different function and has
strong interrelationships with others. So
the policy discussion should be framed
not at the extremes of the national level
or the individual settlement. Instead, it
should be framed at the level of what is
termed an “area,” usually a state or province. Policy makers should see themselves
as managers of the portfolio of places in
such an area. An area approach can also
inform national urbanization strategies.
While area-specific urban shares in the
population will determine priorities for
all levels of government (central, provincial, and municipal), a nation’s urban
share can be a good guide to the overall
complexity of its challenges.
Policy challenges become more complex with urbanization. Cities and
towns provide fi rms and families the
benefits of proximity, but the compactness of activity produces congestion,
pollution, and social tension, which can
offset those benefits. Whether a policy
is desirable depends on if it addresses
the market’s failures and abets concentration. In countries or areas with low

WDR09_15_Ch07.indd 199

Figure 7.1

The growth of cities has been grossly overestimated
Dhaka
Guangzhou
Tokyo
Hong Kong, China
Hyderabad
Istanbul
Bangalore
Moscow
Delhi
Lagos
Tianjin
Chicago
Osaka-Kobe
Leningrad
Buenos Aires
Mumbai
New York–Newark
Ahmedabad
Los Angeles
Paris
Manila
Bogotá
Shanghai
Kolkata
São Paulo
Jakarta
London
Cairo
Karachi
Chennai
Mexico City
Bangkok
Lima-Callao
Rio de Janeiro
Kinshasa
Seoul
Beijing
Tehran
Baghdad

–60

–40

–20

0

20

40

60

80

100

120

Prediction error relative to population in 2000, %
Source: Satterthwaite 2007.
Note: Comparison of predictions in 1974 with estimates of city populations in 2000. Bar indicates the extent to
which the city population was overpredicted in 1974 relative to its size in 2000. A negative number indicates
that a city size was greater in 2000 than predicted.

•

urban shares, for example, traffic congestion and slums may not be the major
policy problems. But in rapidly urbanizing areas, congestion can quickly set
in. And metropolitan areas may need,
in addition, to address within-city divisions posed by shantytowns and slums.
Prioritizing and sequencing of policies
can help governments facilitate inclusive urbanization even in the early
stages of development. Each dimension
of the integration challenge requires
a different family of instruments. For
areas of incipient urbanization, the policy challenge is one-dimensional: build
density with spatially blind institutions.
For areas of intermediate urbanization,
it is two-dimensional: build density and

10/9/08 4:27:10 PM

200

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

reduce economic distance with spatially
connective infrastructure. And for areas
of advanced urbanization, it is threedimensional: build density, overcome
distance, and address the economic
and social divisions—caused, say, by
slums—with spatially targeted interventions. But at every stage, policy makers should emphasize the spatially blind
institutions that encourage density in
the right places.
The chapter first summarizes how
urbanization policies can help places facilitate agglomeration economies. It next outlines a framework for economic integration
to guide the management of a portfolio of
places, using the experience of places that
have urbanized successfully. It then discusses examples of the framework in action
in today’s developing countries.

B OX 7.1

Are the policy messages of this Report antirural?
No.

The economic geography of nations
does not conform to a simple
urban-rural split. A continuum of
density gives rise to a portfolio of
interrelated places. Symbiosis is the
rule. At the head is a country’s leading city, and below it, a spectrum
of settlements—secondary cities,
small urban centers, towns, and
villages.
A low-income country’s portfolio
of places consists of primarily rural
areas. At this phase of incipient
urbanization, the mainstay of a strategy to facilitate spatial transformations necessary for economic growth
is a set of spatially blind policies:
• Versatile and well-implemented
regulations governing land markets to enforce property rights,
safeguard land tenure, improve
land transfers, ease land use conversion to reflect market needs,
and bolster land taxation
• Basic and social service provision
to improve education and health,
increase productivity, and encourage mobility

WDR09_15_Ch07.indd 200

• Sound macroeconomic policies to
reduce market distortions, eliminate biases against agriculture,
improve the business climate,
stimulate competitiveness, and
promote investment and adopt
new technologies.
Such “aspatial” policies promote rural
development—both in agriculture and
the nonfarm economy—so that every
place becomes better equipped to participate in industry and services.
These policies will disproportionately benefit rural households
because the rural nonfarm economy
typically accounts for 30–50 percent
of rural employment. Likewise, rural
households engage in diverse economic activities, with nonagricultural
sources contributing 35–42 percent
of household income. Growth in the
nonfarm sector will stimulate growth
in agriculture as inputs become
cheaper, profits are reinvested in agriculture, and technological change
allows better farming methods.a
Source: WDR 2009 team.
a. Feder and Lanjouw 2001.

Principles for managing a portfolio
of places
Debates about urbanization often evoke
images of overcrowded cities, visible concentrations of poverty, and appalling environmental degradation. This can result in a
general policy stance to control urban growth
and curb rural-urban migration. Geographically targeted interventions to clear or clean
up slums that proliferated during low- and
middle-income stages of development can
end up dominating the discussion.
This chapter reframes the urbanization
debate. Historical evidence suggests that
urbanization in developing countries will
continue to be rapid at early stages of economic growth—much of the rise in urban
shares takes place before nations get to
upper-middle incomes. But the rising density is to be welcomed if it produces agglomeration economies. The debate should not
be mainly about the pace of urbanization,
the amount of rural-urban migration, or
the ways to eradicate slums with targeted
interventions. Instead, it should be about
the efficiency and inclusiveness of the processes that transform a rural economy into
an urban one. And it should be about how
policy can best address the coordination
failures that arise at each stage of urbanization. “The poor are gravitating to towns
and cities, but more rapid poverty reduction will probably require a faster pace of
urbanization, not a slower one—and development policy makers will need to facilitate
this process, not hinder it.”1 And because a
rural-urban transformation involves both
the urban and the rural, urbanization strategies must include measures to improve
rural lives and livelihoods (see box 7.1).

The principle: maximize agglomeration
economies across the portfolio of places
Concentration, associated with rising density,
brings potential benefits from “thick” markets. But it also brings congestion and squalor. The main aim of urban policy is to help
settlements deliver agglomeration economies
while reducing the grime, crime, and time
costs that come with rising concentration.
At different stages of urbanization, the binding constraints to promoting concentration

10/9/08 4:27:11 PM

Concentration without Congestion

while controlling congestion differ, as do the
priorities at each stage of urbanization.

•

•

•

Incipient. Areas of incipient urbanization—with urban shares of about 25 percent—are predominantly agricultural or
resource based, with low economic density. The priority is simply to facilitate
agglomeration forces and to encourage
internal economies of scale for plants,
mills, and factories in towns. Because it is
not yet clear which places will be favored
by markets and for what purposes, neutrality between places should be the
watchword for policy makers.
Intermediate. As urbanization progresses, economic alliances strengthen
within and between urbanized areas.
Many firms and plants in the same sector colocate to take advantage of sharing
inputs and knowledge spillovers. In such
areas—with urban population shares of
about 50 percent—the promotion of
localization economies is the highest
priority. Efficiency in production and
transport is the watchword.
Advanced. For highly urbanized areas,
productivity and consumption benefits arise from urbanization economies
associated with the diversity and intensity of economic activity. While functionality is the goal for industrial towns
and cities, the watchword for postindustrial metropolises, with urban shares of
about 75 percent, is livability.

The policy rule: sequence and calibrate
The spatial dimensions of density, distance,
and division spotlight the policy challenge
Figure 7.2

201

in each of these types of place. In predominantly rural neighborhoods, the policy
challenge is one dimensional and corresponds to the need to build density. In areas
where urbanization has gathered momentum, the challenge is two dimensional. It
incorporates the need to promote density
and overcome problems of distance caused
by congestion. In areas of advanced urbanization, the challenge is three dimensional.
For metropolises, again, there is a need to
encourage density and overcome distance.
To this should be added the need to eliminate divisions within cities, which segregate
the poor in informal slums from the rest, in
formally settled parts (see figure 7.2).

The unit for deliberating government
action: an area
Different parts of a country urbanize at
different speeds. Unevenness is the rule,
not an exception. And there are synergies
and economic interdependencies among
settlements of different sizes. Reframing urbanization policies to better meet
the economic imperatives at all stages of
the rural-urban transformation requires
rethinking the spatial scale for deciding
policy priorities and design. This Report
makes the case for considering policies at
an appropriate geographic scale: an “area,”
or state or province, generally the middle
tier of government between the central and
municipal. The scale should be big enough
to permit both rural-urban and interurban
linkages. The experience of Beijing, Shanghai municipality, and Guangdong province supports a deliberately designed area
approach to urban strategy. Two other areas

The dimensions increase with the level of urbanization

One-dimensional area
(density)

Two-dimensional area
(density + distance)

Three-dimensional area
(density + distance + division)

Incipient urbanization

Intermediate urbanization

Advanced urbanization
Metropolis

DENSITY
Large city

DENSITY
Villages

DENSITY
Towns

Towns

DISTANCE
Core
city
DISTANCE

DIVISION

Secondary
cities
DENSITY

Source: WDR 2009 team.

WDR09_15_Ch07.indd 201

10/9/08 4:27:11 PM

202

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

in western China—Chengdu and Chongqing—are now taking the same approach to
urbanization, with some success.
An area approach does not rule out the
aggregation of urbanization strategies to a
national level. High-density areas tend to
have populations concentrated in metropolitan cities, intermediate-density areas in
medium-size cities, and low-density areas in
small towns and villages. In the same way,
more urbanized countries have more of their
people in high-density areas, and less urbanized countries have some high-density areas,
but most people are in low-density areas.
Urbanization policies should incorporate
this unevenness of economic development.
A country’s aggregate urban share can
be a good indicator of the complexity of
the urbanization challenges it faces. In the
simplest case, one area may characterize an
entire country, as for Singapore. For larger
countries, a careful aggregation can help
determine the priorities at different levels
of government.

•

•

•

WDR09_15_Ch07.indd 202

In countries where urbanization is incipient, such as Ethiopia, with three-fourths of
its population in rural areas, the integration challenge is unidimensional: facilitating density. To be sure, the capital cities and
a handful of other cities even in predominantly rural nations face multidimensional
challenges in their spatial transformation.
But the top priority is the set of aspatial
policy instruments that apply universally
to all places—establishing market institutions to regulate land use and transactions,
and delivering such basic services as security, schools, streets, and sanitation. So in
the countries of Sub-Saharan Africa and
Central Asia, the role of national governments is pivotal in laying the foundations
of inclusive urbanization.
Where urbanization is intermediate—as
in many parts of the countries of East
and South Asia such as India and China—central and provincial administrations must also build transport and
communication infrastructure.
Where urbanization is more advanced,
as in the countries of Latin America,
North Africa, and Eastern Europe, central, state, and municipal governments
must synchronize efforts to facilitate the

geographic transformations for the push
from middle to high incomes.

A framework for integration
As urbanization advances, the policy imperatives change, with the instruments spanning
the spectrum from spatially blind to spatially
targeted. While the policy debates overemphasize the most spatially explicit of government
actions, such as slum-upgrading programs,
successful urbanization aimed at integrating
every nation’s portfolio of places requires the
use of the full range of instruments—institutions, infrastructure, and incentives.

Spatially blind “institutions” to
facilitate economic density
The responsibility for building institutions
that will be the bedrock for urbanization in
all parts of the country lies mainly with the
central government. Chief among them are
those governing the management of land. In
this Report, “institutions” encompass three
broad sets of measures: law and order (especially the defi nition and enforcement of
property rights), the universal provision of
basic services, and macroeconomic stability
(see “Navigating This Report” for details).
These are core mandates for the central government, and delivering them—or failing
to—will alter the geographic distribution
of economic activities forever.
The institutions governing land markets
include a comprehensive land registry; credible mechanisms for contract enforcement
and conflict resolution; flexible zoning laws;
and versatile subdivision regulations that
help, rather than hinder, the conversion of
land for different uses. The transformation
of the agricultural sector from one based on
communal land rights to individual property rights is the sine qua non for urbanization. The evidence clearly shows that once
property rights have been established and
density is increasing, land regulation and
planning can ensure the efficient coordination of different land uses. But if regulations are overzealous, they can hinder
the benefits of density and agglomeration
economies. Similarly, rigid land use conversion rules, which may be a consequence of
inflexible regulations, can be detrimental to
density, as are overly restrictive minimum

10/9/08 4:27:11 PM

203

Concentration without Congestion

building standards. The fourth institution
is adequate housing finance.
Institutions for fluid land markets
remain important. The property rights
embodied in land titles are essential for
converting assets into usable wealth.2 The
practical problems of titling, not least the
cost of implementation, should not deter
strengthening the legal framework for individual property ownership. Indeed, formal
titles are necessary for functioning land and
property markets. Although customary systems of tenure still permit informal transactions, the absence of formal titles hinders
the conversion of land to areas of higher
economic return. Informality is a brake on
land development, constraining an efficient
spatial transformation.
Consider preindustrial Europe. With
more secure individual property rights to
land, English cities grew rapidly.3 Indeed,
England may have been the first to industrialize because it introduced such rights
before other European countries. The
Nobel prize–winning economist Douglass
North uses this to spotlight what land institutions can do for long-run growth and
development.4
The “enclosure” movement made individual private property rights possible.
Starting around 1500 open commons were
fenced, hedged, or otherwise closed off and
deeded or titled to individuals. By 1545
around 40 percent of England’s surface area
belonged to private individuals. The Enclosure Act of 1604 fostered the conversion of
open commons into private plots, which
continued until the early twentieth century.5 Most researchers agree that enclosures in
England increased agricultural productivity,
which released labor from the land, and provided the food surplus to support the rapidly
increasing urban population.6 This allowed
England to become, for a time, the “workshop of the world.”7 More evidence on how
aspatial institutions initiate urbanization
comes from Denmark (see box 7.2).
Another example of what widespread
private property rights can do for growth,
and for density, comes from North America
and the countries of Latin America and the
Caribbean. In the early period of European
settlement, Canada and the United States
were seen as having economic potential

WDR09_15_Ch07.indd 203

similar to that of other parts of the New
World (see “Geography in Motion: Overcoming Distance in North America”). After
winning the Anglo-French Seven Years’
War of 1756–63, the British vigorously
debated whether to claim the small Caribbean islands of Guadeloupe (1,628 square
kilometers) or Canada (9.8 million square
kilometers) as the spoils of victory.8
The development trajectories of North
America and Latin America would diverge
radically. In Latin America, the Spanish
colonialists gave large tracts of land to a
handful of individuals, along with the right
to tax the local populace. Customary communal property rights determined land
use, making people less willing to move. In
North America, by contrast, there were few
barriers to the acquisition of land, creating

B OX 7 . 2

Land reform to jump-start urbanization:
aiding villeins in Denmark

In central Copenhagen a “pillar
of freedom” commemorates land
reform. The monument honors the
final abolition, in 1788, of “villenage,”
a form of serfdom common in Western Europe in the Middle Ages. At the
beginning of the eighteenth century
less than 1 percent of agricultural
land was farmed by land-owning
peasants, and large amounts of land
were common property. Required to
work for landlords, “villeins” could
not move without their landlord’s
consent. But starting in 1760, most
communal land was transformed into
private holdings. Between 1788 and
1807, landlords sold around half of
their land to tenants. By 1835 almost
65 percent of the land was owner
occupied.a A few decades later, Denmark experienced a “take-off” into
industrialization and urbanization.
This urbanization did not mean
rural squalor. Structural, technological, and institutional changes
reduced the value of tenancy to
landlords, increasing the economic
leverage of tenants. In a 1784 decree
the century-old obligation of landlords to collect taxes on behalf of
the state was waived on land the
landlord sold to their former tenants.

In 1788 the abolition of villeinage
further improved the bargaining
power of tenants. Policy interventions in the credit market also helped.
In 1786 two public credit institutions
were established to provide loans for
land purchases, complementing an
already rather active and efficient private credit market. The result: credit
did not constrain many prospective
buyers.b
Market-based transactions, facilitated by government land policies,
formed a large class of owneroccupier farmers, later a driving force
behind Denmark’s 1849 Constitution
and emerging democracy. By promoting education for the poor and
for rural residents, they also spread
basic services and gave a strong
impetus to industrialization and small
towns.c Denmark’s population rose
sharply—in preindustrial societies,
a growing population is a sign of
prospering agriculture. After 1890
agriculture fed a surge of industrial
growth in small townsd instrumental
in Denmark’s industrialization.e
Contributed by Thomas Markussen.
a. Henriksen 2003. b. Henriksen 2003.
c. Henriksen 2003. d. Pedersen 1990.
e. Christensen 2004, p. 1.

10/9/08 4:27:12 PM

204

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

land markets and a predominantly owneroperated agricultural sector on the western
frontier.9 The U.S. Homestead Act of 1862
gave individuals the right to 160 acres of
unoccupied public land, the early foundation of a strong property rights system.
Contemporary research confi rms the
role of well-enforced individual property
rights. A study of 80 countries fi nds that
institutional quality does more for longrun growth than either geographic factors
or a country’s openness to trade.10 Another
study of 75 countries finds that security of
property rights, as measured by an index
of expropriation risks, aids development.
And when such institutional effects are
accounted for, physical geography has weak
effects on a country’s average income.11
In incipient urbanization areas or in
nations where the rural share is high, the
institutions governing property rights
may be both the base and the mainstay
of the policies for a rapid and sustainable
urbanization. By contrast, when there is no
secure individual land and property rights,
land transactions and urbanization may
become divisive. Consider China, where
land is collectively owned in rural areas and
farmers do not enjoy clearly defined or fully
protected land property rights. There, the
conversion of land to industrial use generates social conflict because farmers perceive
land confiscation as inappropriate without
fair compensation. The problems are similar in many Sub-Saharan African countries,
where 90 percent of the land is communal.
Land use and building regulations
become important as urbanization
advances. Governments regulate land markets for two reasons. First, regulation can
ensure the appropriate separation of land
between different uses, such as preventing
the location of heavily polluting industries
in residential areas. Second, it can ensure
the integration of private and public uses of
land, such as providing space for transport
infrastructure in densely populated areas.
But land use regulation can be overzealous,
upsetting the delicate balance between the
public interest and private opportunity.
A city’s future depends on investor confidence in its prospects and its responsiveness
to future changes in the demand for land.

WDR09_15_Ch07.indd 204

Overly stringent regulations undermine
investor confidence and unnecessarily distort housing markets. Consider Mumbai.12
Overly restrictive land and building regulations have put unnecessary upward pressure
on land and property prices, hampering the
city’s competitiveness. Height regulations
hold Mumbai’s buildings to only between
a fifth and a tenth of the number of floors
allowed in major cities in other countries.
The city’s topography should exhibit a highdensity pattern similar to that in Hong Kong,
China, but it is instead mostly a low-rise city
(see box 7.3). Half of all poor workers commute less than 2 kilometers to work.
Stringent restrictions on land use conversion produce shortages of affordable
housing, hurting migrants to a city. For
this reason, the average ratio of the median
house price to the median annual household income in many African and Asian
cities is twice that in many large U.S. cities.13 Bangladesh has a per capita income of
$1,230, less than 3 percent of the U.S. per
capita income of $44,070.14 But in Dhaka
prime land prices are similar to those in
New York City. As much as 20 percent of
the city’s inner area is underserviced. Tracts
of centrally located, publicly owned land
remain idle and underdeveloped, while
the rest is allocated for low value-added
uses—a cantonment, public housing, and
residential areas for government workers.
Stringent land development parameters—including minimum plot sizes and
road widths, setbacks, and land for communal facilities—exclude a majority of households from formal land ownership. Indeed,
although the underlying plot might be titled,
the dwelling may be rendered illegal because
of the failure to meet official construction
standards. Without a downward revision
of standards, the benefits of legal title are
lost. Such legal codes also contribute to red
tape and excessive housing costs.15 In Addis
Ababa high construction standards have relegated many low-income households, which
might otherwise possess a tradable title, to
the ownership of “illegal property.”16
In 1979, the federal government in Brazil, by passing a national land use regulation
setting a minimum lot size of 125 square
meters and frontage of 5 meters, effectively

10/9/08 4:27:12 PM

205

Concentration without Congestion

Bombay fights the markets, and more than half of Mumbai’s residents live in slums

B OX 7.3

The city of Mumbai, once known as Bombay, provides sobering lessons. In the
1960s and 1970s, city planners decided
that Bombay’s population should be
controlled at about 7 million. Land regulations and infrastructure policies were
designed accordingly. But people flooded
into the city anyway, and today the city is
more than twice the intended size, with
the highest population density of any
metropolitan area in the world. Estimates
indicate that 54 percent of Mumbai’s 16
million people now live in slums, and
another quarter in degraded apartments.
The Floor Space Index (FSI)a regulations in Mumbai were introduced in 1964,
stipulating the maximum building space
for every square meter of the plot of land.
In Mumbai it was set at 4.5. The standard
practice in cities with limited land is to
raise the permitted FSI over time to accommodate urban growth, as in Manhattan;
Singapore; Hong Kong, China; and Shanghai. Instead, the Municipal Corporation

of Greater Mumbai went the other way,
lowering the permitted FSI to 1.33 in 1991.
Almost all buildings in Mumbai with an
FSI exceeding 4.5 were built before 1964.
Under the rules that existed until recently,
new buildings, including those in the central business district, were subject to the
FSI of 1.33. As a consequence, space consumption in Mumbai averages 4 square
meters, much less than the 12 square
meters in Shanghai and the more than
20 square meters in Moscow. And about
half of its residents are huddled within 2
kilometers of the city center (see the figure
below).
Meanwhile, high housing costs account
for as much as 15–20 percent of the
income of a low-income family. Rent
control regulations freeze 30 percent of
Mumbai’s housing stock, leaving it dilapidated because landlords see little point
in investing. Weak property rights imply
that only 10 percent of the housing stock
has legal title, so land redevelopment

is curtailed. The government relies on
property taxes and on inflated real estate
prices for revenue, so it has little incentive
to fight the groups that resist relaxation
of building height restrictions.
The result is a vicious circle of supply
shortages and high land prices. Mumbai
slipped from 25th place to 40th in the
league table of “best cities for business”
between 1995 and 1999. It remains
India’s premier business city—it topped
Chennai and Bangalore in investment
in 2007 and was the top destination for
domestic migrants. But how quickly it
reforms its regulations and builds infrastructure will decide how long it will
keep this position.
Source: WDR 2009 team; Bertaud 2003.
a. The FSI is the ratio of the total floor space
in a building to the area of the plot on which
it is built. For example, suppose a building
covers half of a plot that is 1,000 square
meters in size. If this building has 10 floors, it
exhibits an FSI of 5.

Land should be used better in Mumbai, and people should not live so close to work
km2
30
% of households
35

25
Sea

30
20
25
15

All households

20

Poor households

15

10

10
5
5
0

0

5

10

15

20

25

30

35

40

45

Distance from central business district (km)
Source: Bertaud 2003.

WDR09_15_Ch07.indd 205

Undeveloped land outside
municipal limits
Undeveloped land inside
municipal limits
Transport

50

0

0–1

1–2

2–3

3–5 5–10 10–15 15–20 20–30 >30

Distance to work (km)
Airport
Port
Industries
Slums
Built-up area

Source: Baker and others 2005.

10/9/08 4:27:13 PM

206

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

excluded many low-income residents from
access to land in the formal sector. Many
suburban low-income developments could
not meet the 125-square-meter requirement,
but were built on land owned by developers.
Outside the formal sector, such developments could not be legally supplied public
services. So more than half the population
in regional capitals, such as Recife and Salvador, lives in slums or informal areas.17,18
After democratization in 1988, cities were
encouraged to service the informal sector.
Although the national minimum lot size
requirement remained in place, areas could
be designated as Special Zones of Social
Interest and exempted from the requirement as part of a package to secure tenure
and improve services.
Land market restrictions can have
adverse spillovers on the urban economy
and blunt the instruments intended to aid
urbanization. Unless basic institutions for
land markets and social services are in
place, infrastructure development will be
hindered, and spatially targeted interventions will likely be ineffective.
Regulations for housing finance affect
urbanization. Since the deregulation of
fi nancial systems in the second half of the
1980s, market-based housing fi nancing has
expanded rapidly. Residential mortgage
markets are now equivalent to more that 40
percent of gross domestic product (GDP) in
developed countries. But those in developing countries are much smaller, averaging
less than 10 percent of GDP.19 The public
role should be to stimulate well-regulated
private involvement. For example, private
initiatives of the type developed by the
Grameen Bank in Bangladesh, Bancosol
in Bolivia, and the Housing Development
and Finance Corporation in India show
that uncollateralized lending can nourish housing finance even in countries with
budding fi nancial systems and weak legal
and regulatory structures. Establishing the
legal foundation for simple, enforceable,
and prudent mortgage contracts is a good
start. When a country’s fi nancial system
is more developed and mature, the public
sector can encourage a secondary mortgage
market, develop financial innovations, and
expand the securitization of mortgages.20

WDR09_15_Ch07.indd 206

Occupant-owned housing, usually a
household’s largest single asset by far, is
important in wealth creation, social security, and politics. People who own their
house or have secure tenure have a larger
stake in their community and thus are
more likely to lobby for less crime, stronger
governance, and better local environmental
conditions.21

Spatially connective infrastructure
to reduce distance to density
Policies to unify land markets and facilitate
labor mobility remain important for the
buildup of economic density at all stages of
urbanization. But they are not enough for
dealing with the more complex challenges
of advancing urbanization. In Seoul and
Shanghai, downtown traffic averages 8 kilometers an hour; in Bangkok, Manila, and
Mexico City, it averages 10 kilometers an
hour or slower; in Kuala Lumpur and São
Paulo, it averages 15 kilometers an hour or
slower. Workers in Jakarta, Kinshasa, Lagos,
and Manila spend on average 75 minutes
commuting to work.22 For such areas, congestion can eat away the benefits of rising
density. Spatially connective infrastructure
must join the spatially blind institutions as
priorities for inclusive urbanization.
Connective infrastructure needs institutions. Successful cities react to growing
traffic congestion with spatially connective
infrastructure. But preceding such infrastructure in all successful cities (or accompanying it in the fastest urbanizers) is a fluid
land market and an empowered local government. The sequencing of policies should
be spatially blind measures to create conditions suitable for economic concentration,
followed by connective policies to deal with
congestion.
The United Kingdom in the nineteenth
century is illustrative. With systems of
governance varying widely across towns,
the Reform Act of 1832 and the Municipal
Corporations Act of 1835 brought about
regularization of municipal government.23
Municipal authorities could take over privately owned sewerage, water, and gas
systems. By the 1880s they had started purchasing land to compete with private utilities, transport, and other services. In doing

10/9/08 4:27:13 PM

Concentration without Congestion

so, they unified the hodgepodge of preexisting private systems, separating sewage and
drainage systems from the water systems,
and extending the reach of basic services to
poor areas.24 The Land Enquiry Commission recognized that “municipal land ownership, town planning and the building up of
the system of transit will go hand in hand and
each will help the other.”25 By the end of the
nineteenth century, institutions governing
land markets were maturing and adapting
to the changing urban requirements.26
With this as background, the United
Kingdom’s urbanization was rapid. In 1830
the average GDP per capita was $1,749 (in
1990 international prices), roughly equivalent to Honduras, Mozambique, or Pakistan in 2003.27 The urban share rose from
28 percent in 1830 to 69 percent in 1910.28
At the top of the urban hierarchy: London,
whose population grew from 2 million in
1830 to 6.6 million in 1900.29
Institutions and infrastructure must
evolve continually. As areas urbanize and
nations develop, the networks for public
transit become more complex, and institutions such as legislation governing land use
must also adapt. Building a new transport
network requires the purchase of contiguous plots of land, and holdouts can extract
huge rents or thwart the project entirely.
Compulsory purchases (“eminent domain”
in the United States) may be necessary, with
the safeguard of just compensation for
land owners. Another safeguard is that the
acquired land be for “public use,” although
how widely this should be interpreted can
be contentious.
The United States, by the mid-nineteenth
century, had a reasonably well-defined
system of property rights. As New York’s
transportation network expanded, and
the needs of the city changed over the past
century, its institutions evolved. The 1916
Zoning Resolution has been amended to
respond to shifts in population and land
use. Waves of immigration helped swell the
city’s population from 5 million in 1916 to
almost 8 million in 1960. New mass transit
routes and growth corridors were created.
And with the rise of the mass-produced
automobile, car registrations in New York
State exploded from 93,000 in 1915 to about

WDR09_15_Ch07.indd 207

207

2 million in 1930.30 To address ever more
complex urbanization, the City Planning
Commission was created in 1938. After
studies and public debate, the 1916 Zoning
Resolution was replaced in 1961. The new
resolution incorporated parking requirements and emphasized open space.
Although based on the leading planning theories of the day, aspects of those
zoning policies have revealed shortcomings over the years. The emphasis on open
space has sometimes resulted in buildings
that overwhelm their surroundings. Since
then, new approaches have been developed
to make land use conversion more responsive to changing needs. A more flexible
approach at the Department of City Planning encourages a mix of uses that creates
lively urban streetscapes that can sustain
increased density.31
New York City provides an example of
the changing spatially blind institutions
necessary for spatially connective policies.
Indeed, their interaction enabled the density of Manhattan, the Bronx, Brooklyn,
and Queens to increase from 230 people per
square kilometer in 1820 to more than 5,000
in 1900 and about 12,000 today.
Successful urbanization requires connecting ever wider areas. Inevitably, density
brings crowding. New York shows the enormous benefits of an efficient metro system in
reducing congestion while encouraging density. The key is an integrated system of mass
transport (see box 7.4). Dense city centers
and skyscrapers are feasible only when thousands of office workers can be transported
efficiently to downtown offices.
Long-term success does not rule out
occasional bouts of congestion, but it does
require flexible institutions. A British pamphlet published in 1860 observed that
[F]rom day to day, and from year-to-year, the
streets of London become more and more
crowded, and must . . . come to a dead-lock
between Westminster and the City, unless
some more efficient remedy can be provided.
The great City lies as it were handcuffed,
panting and exhausted under the weight of
its own wealth.32

London’s congestion appeared no closer
to resolution in 1939, with traffic averaging

10/9/08 4:27:14 PM

208

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

B OX 7.4

Widening the reach of New York City

New York’s subway system has
become one of the busiest and most
extensive in the world, serving nearly
5 million passengers every day with
26 train lines operating on 800 miles
of track. As New York City spread into
a wider metropolitan area, commuter
bus networks and rail lines grew.
New York City’s commuter rail system
is the most extensive in the United
States, with about 250 stations and
20 rail lines serving more than 150
million commuters annually.a
Public transportation in New York
City began in the late 1820s with
horse-drawn omnibuses. The first
steam-driven cable car line opened
in 1883. In 1909 electric trolleybuses
replaced them, and for 70 years trolleybuses ran in all five boroughs of
New York City. The first elevated line
(“el”) opened in 1868. By 1880 most
Manhattan residents were within a
19-minute walk of an “el,” which took
passengers above the congested
streets.
The mid-1880s saw rapid immigration. Overcrowding was rife. As in
London, an underground rail network
was seen as necessary. But it took a
blizzard in March 1888, completely
paralyzing the streets, to provide
the impetus for an underground rail
system. The subway was designed
both to move people about within
Manhattan, and to connect tracts of
undeveloped land.
After years of political wrangling,
a plan for a subway was approved in
1894. In 1904, the Interborough Rapid
Transit Company opened and carried

more than 100,000 passengers on
the day of the opening ceremony.
Subway trains, at close to 40 miles an
hour, were much faster than trolleys
(6 miles an hour) and elevated trains
(12 miles an hour). More people could
now be moved at faster speeds.
It has been a never-ending struggle
to expand the transport system fast
enough to accommodate population
growth. Most of the subway system
in use today was built between 1913
and 1931; the number of annual rail
passengers jumped from 500 million
in 1901 to 2.5 billion in 1929.b In 1940
the city unified the three independent subway lines under public ownership, allowing for a more integrated
approach to transport development.
The payoff is inclusive and sustainable urbanization. New York’s Metropolitan Transportation Authority has
served a 5,000-square-mile region
since 1968. According to the 2000
U.S. census, New York City is the only
locality in the United States where
fewer than half of all households own
a car—the figure is even lower in
Manhattan at fewer than a quarter—
compared with 92 percent nationally.
One in every three users of mass transit in the United States and two-thirds
of the nation’s rail riders live in New
York City and its suburbs.c
Source: WDR 2009 team.
Note: a. The New York City Transit
Museum Teacher Resource Center, and
the Port Authority of New York and New
Jersey Official Web site. b. The New York
City Transit Museum Teacher Resource
Center. c. The New York City Transit
Museum Teacher Resource Center.

8 miles an hour, 33 not so different from
the 10–11 miles an hour in central London
today.34 This may suggest an “equilibrium
level” of congestion. The city’s economic
density consistent with this equilibrium
depends on the quality of spatially connective infrastructure. In this sense, the value
of additional investment in such infrastructure is not as much in the long-run
abatement of congestion as in the continually rising economic density for any given
level of congestion. Congestion is the result

WDR09_15_Ch07.indd 208

of the substitution of one scarce resource,
travel time, for another even more scarce
resource, land. It is not efficient to devote
so much urban land to roads that congestion is completely eliminated. Some urban
congestion is likely to be optimal, if for no
other reason than to prompt policy makers to review and update institutions and
infrastructure.
As cities specialize, intercity infrastructure becomes a priority in the most dynamic
areas. There is a symbiosis between cities
and their peripheries, but economic relationships also join other cities in an urban
hierarchy. Transport links between cities
reinforce agglomeration economies and
generate complementary and specialized
functions. In the United States the megalopolis stretching from Boston, through
New York City, Philadelphia, and Baltimore
to Washington along the northeastern coast
is linked by highways and rails (the fi rst
freight rail link was between Baltimore and
Washington in 1827).35 Japan also invested
in spatially connective infrastructure to
link its two largest agglomerations TokyoYokohama and Osaka-Kobe (see box 7.5).
In the Republic of Korea, Seoul-Incheon
(in the northwest) and Pusan (the second
largest city at the southeast tip) were linked
as early as 1905 by the Gyeongbu Rail, and
in 1970 by the 400-plus-kilometer Gyeongbu Highway. In 2004 the bullet train—the
Korea Train Express—connected the two
cities in two hours’ travel time. In the Pearl
River Delta—a region of China studded
with factories and interwoven by freeways—
the economies of several cities are linked
together so effectively that, according to the
chief executive officer of a large electronics
manufacturer, “In practice, we are a single
vast factory scattered across the territory.”
Demand management and public transport encourage development of higher density. There are many instruments to increase
connectivity, among them—36

•

•

Improving transport options—say,
through better transit management that
increases the use of, or gives preference
to, high-occupancy vehicles
Managing land use—through transitoriented development or smart growth
that gives preference to new develop-

10/9/08 4:27:14 PM

209

Concentration without Congestion

B OX 7.5

Promoting concentration in Japan between 1860 and 1980:
spatially connective policies for Tokyo-Yokohama and Osaka-Kobe

Japan’s manufacturing industries are
spatially concentrated—a trend that can
be traced to the Meiji era starting in the
1860s. In Tokyo both state-owned factories and private industrial complexes
were concentrated along the main river.
Gradually small machinery workshops
conglomerated, and industries expanded
toward the south along the new Tokaido
railway connecting Tokyo, Yokohama, and
areas farther south.
After World War II, when exports to the
United States began to accelerate, industrial production became concentrated
in the Keihin industrial zone around
Tokyo and Yokohama, and in the Hanshin
industrial zone around Osaka and Kobe.
This led to heavy traffic congestion,
water shortages, and air and water pollution. In 1962 the Japanese government
responded by instituting Zenso—the Integrated Spatial Development Plan—which
aggressively developed the Pacific Ocean
Industrial Belt by linking the core agglomerated areas between Tokyo and Osaka
and establishing new industrial zones in
between. The investments included the
bullet train (Shinkansen) and other trunk
railways, expressways, and ports (see the
map to the right).
Despite heavy infrastructure investments in new industrial clusters in more
remote regions, they could not attract
industries out of the Pacific Ocean Belt.
During the miraculous growth era of
the 1950s through 1970s, industries
remained spatially concentrated, thanks
to the mobility of workers, even though
there has been massive relocation of
industries from the congested core
to surrounding new industrial areas.
Enterprises that remained in core urban
clusters upgraded from standardized
products to high-tech products and
new models by taking advantage of
urbanization economies accruing from
diverse economic activity and a large
pool of skill and talent. Other enterprises
retained their central management
functions in the core agglomerations to
benefit from the convenience of faceto-face communications with banks,
government offices, and major industrial
organizations.

WDR09_15_Ch07.indd 209

Industries that left the traditional
industrial cores were mostly exporters
of machinery and electronic appliance
plants. They continued to enjoy localization economies from producing similar
and related products in new clusters.
Their locations alongside the Tomei highway connecting Tokyo and Nagoya gave
easy access to markets and high-tech
enterprises in the urban centers.
The geographic distribution of industries over several decades of rapid growth
reflected the government’s efforts to

promote concentration while preventing
the grime and time costs of rising density.
These efforts did not interfere with the
profit motives of enterprises, but instead
strengthened agglomeration economies.
Government policies and market forces
reinforced each other spatially to sustain
economic growth.
Contributed by Keijiro Otsuka and Megumi
Muto.
Sources: Fujita and Tabuchi 1997; Sonobe and
Otsuka 2006; Whittaker 1997; Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund 1995.

Connected cities in Japan facilitate agglomeration economies in Tokyo-Yokohama (Keihin) and
Osaka-Kobe (Hanshin) by road and rail

Sapporo

HOKKAIDO

HONSHU

Tokyo
Osaka

SHIKOKU
KYUSHU
Main railroads
Main highways

Source: WDR 2009 team.

10/9/08 4:27:15 PM

210

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

•

ments along established public transport
routes
Launching general policies and programs—such as freight transport management and market reforms.

Pricing mechanisms can be most effective in optimizing private car use. Extreme
but effective are Singapore’s auction permits to purchase cars. Add the car taxes,
and the cost of a car in Singapore is four
to five times the world price. Amsterdam,
London, and Stockholm also have schemes
that price road use according to the time of
day and level of congestion—substantially
reducing peak-time car traffic and car emissions. The revenue streams from congestion
charging could be earmarked for reinvestment in public transportation. But such
schemes require substantial investment in
technology to ensure the efficient collection
of fees.
Easier to implement are simple regulations or traffic plans that reduce the number of vehicles in specific parts of a city
or overall. In Tehran entry to parts of the
city center is restricted to essential traffic.
Budapest and Buenos Aires have pedestrian-only zones in the city center, easily
reached by public transport. Gothenburg
(Sweden) and Bremen (Germany) restrict
private car links between different zones
(“cells”), encouraging public transit. India’s
Chandigarh built some 160 kilometers of
wide-cycle paths to ease traffic on arterial
roads.37 The most popular restraint limits
the use of vehicles on specific days according to their registration plate number, as
in Athens, Bogotá, Lagos, Manila, Mexico
City, Santiago, São Paulo, Seoul, and Singapore. Such measures have been proven
easier to enforce than expected, with widespread public acceptance.38
Demand management is the most costeffective means of increasing mobility. But
traffic will increase even with the best policies, especially in rapidly growing cities.
Investments in public transport infrastructure can connect different parts of a city
and guide land use and urban expansion.
Mass rapid transit includes subways, suburban rail, and dedicated busways, all having
a capacity and performance far superior to

WDR09_15_Ch07.indd 210

buses operating on unsegregrated and congested roads. But suburban rail and subways
require huge investments in fi xed capital, so
dedicated busways (plus their more sophisticated relation, “bus rapid transit”) have
been gaining in popularity.
Busways, most common in Latin
American cities, cost about $10 million a
kilometer to install. Operating in Bogotá,
Colombia; Curitiba and São Paulo, Brazil;
and Quito, Ecuador, they are being planned
or built in many other cities. A more expensive alternative, ranging in cost from $10
million to $30 million a kilometer, is light
rail, a modern form of tram covering short
distances. It usually feeds a larger system
of heavy metro rail. Cities with light rail
include Hong Kong, China; Kuala Lumpur;
Singapore; Sydney; and Tunis.
The most costly mass rapid transit option
is the metropolitan subway system, which
has the largest capacity. Building costs average more than $100 million a kilometer,
explaining why there are fewer than 200 systems in the world, mostly in industrialized
countries.39 But their number is growing:
China, India, and the República Bolivariana
de Venezuela have built subways. When cities reach a certain size and density, a subway
is the only transport mode capable of moving large numbers of people to concentrated
job centers. The benefits that come from
enabling such density include efficiency
and productivity gains—traditionally in
industry, increasingly in services (see chapter 4)—but also lower energy consumption,
less pollution, and greater compactness,
which increase interaction and encourage
nonmotorized transport for short intracity
trips. Compact and densely packed cities
might also meet the imperatives of climate
change (see box 7.6).
Public transport, successful on its own,
has encouraged new developments at higher
densities, which in turn permit more successful public transport while reducing the
economic distance between places. Managing all this takes patience and the discipline
to build from the bottom. The establishment and strengthening of land and property market institutions—including secure
property rights, flexible land use regulations, and ease of land conversion—is not

10/9/08 4:27:15 PM

211

Concentration without Congestion

B OX 7.6

Climate change calls for a different urban form, not slower urbanization

Urbanization is associated with industrialization, which increases emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) and other greenhouse
gases. And increasing wealth tends to be
associated with higher energy consumption, for instance through motorization.
But to be concerned about the climate
does not mean that urbanization should
be slowed. If anything, economic density
may need to be encouraged even more.
Historical data going back to the nineteenth century show that today’s rich
countries experienced rising per capita
carbon emissions as they urbanized and
industrialized through the twentieth
century.a Industrialization, motorization,
and consequently carbon emissions in
developing countries follow the trajectories of developed countries in their earlier
stages of development.b For instance, per
capita carbon emissions in Germany doubled from 0.8 metric tons of carbon in 1880
to 1.6 in 1900. In the United States and the
United Kingdom, carbon emissions were
about 2.5 in 1900. Today’s developing
countries have lower average emissions
at the equivalent GDPs per capita of Germany, the United Kingdom, and the United
States in 1880 and 1900. Botswana’s carbon emissions were 0.36 per capita in 1987
and 0.57 in 1996 (see figure at right).
The trend in most developing countries
suggests continuing growth in carbon
emissions both in total and per capita.
The policy response to the projected
increases in urbanization and carbon
emissions in developing countries should
not be to try to prevent the growth of
cities. This would not be feasible or desirable in light of the evidence on growth
and poverty reduction. Instead, growth
in cities—many of which might double in
size over the next few decades—should
be managed to create urban areas far
more carbon efficient than many of
today’s mature cities.
Monocentric structures and high population densities tend to reduce the length
and number of motorized trips.c Compact
cities use less energy for transport, consume less land for housing, and use less
energy for heating. Several studies find
that high population density is negatively

WDR09_15_Ch07.indd 211

correlated with carbon emissions.d At the
national level, Sweden and Japan have
used incentives and regulation to greatly
reduce the emissions intensity of their
economies. At the urban level, an emphasis on density and smart choices that
reduce distance can help do the same.
This requires land use policies that favor
compactness and transport policies that
guide urban form and provide convenient
and efficient public transit.e
Atlanta and Barcelona illustrate alternative urban growth scenarios. They
had similar populations of 2.5 million
to 2.8 million, but Atlanta had a density
of six people per hectare in 1990, and
Barcelona had 176.f In Atlanta the longest
possible distance between two points
within the built-up area is 137 kilometers; in Barcelona, the distance is only
37 kilometers. Per capita CO2 emission
was 400 metric tons in Atlanta, 38 tons
in Barcelona.g Atlanta’s metro network
is 74 kilometers long. but only 4 percent
of its population is within 800 meters
of a metro station. Barcelona’s metro

network is 99 kilometers, and 60 percent
of its population lives within 600 meters
of a metro station. Only 4.5 percent of
trips are by mass transit in Atlanta, a
fraction of the 30 percent in Barcelona.
For Atlanta to achieve Barcelona’s metro
accessibility would require building an
additional 3,400 kilometers of metro
tracks and about 2,800 new metro stations. This would allow the Atlanta metro
to transport the same number of people
that Barcelona does with only 99 kilometers of tracks and 136 stations.
Density makes the difference.
Source: WDR 2009 team.
a. Marland, Boden, and Andres 2007. b.
World Bank 2002, figure 2.1; Lanne and Liski
2003, figures 1, 4, and 5; and data in developing countries from http://cdiac.esd.ornl.
gov/ftp/ndp030/nation.1751_2004.ems.
c. Bento and others 2003. d. Scholz 2006;
Vance and Hedel 2006; Golob and Brownstone 2005; Ingram 1997; International
Union of Public Transport. e. Bento and
others 2003; Scholz 2006; Vance and Hedel
2006; Golob and Brownstone 2005. f. Bertaud 2004. g. Kenworthy 2005.

Countries can change their energy trajectories
Per capita carbon emissions (tons, metric)
20
18
16
14
12
10
Germany, France,
Canada, the United Kingdom,
and the United States
1880–1940

8
6
4
2
0

0

5

10

15

20

25

30

GDP per capita (1990 international Geary Khamis $, thousands)
Sources: Carbon emission data worldwide can be found in the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, U.S. Department
of Energy at http://cdiac.esd.ornl.gov/ftp/ndp030/nation.1751_2004.ems; Lanne and Liski 2003.

10/9/08 4:27:16 PM

212

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

easy. But without the commitment to such
institutions, and without investment in
connective infrastructure, targeted interventions to deal with slums are unlikely to
work.

Spatially targeted interventions to
reduce social and economic divisions
For the three-dimensional problem faced
by advanced urbanization areas, spatially
blind and connective instruments must be
supplemented with spatially targeted interventions to address the social and economic
division within a city’s boundaries—most
visibly, slums. The lesson of experience
is that spatially targeted efforts succeed
when they are applied where land markets
work reasonably well, basic social services
are widely accessible, and a connective
infrastructure links the city’s core to its
periphery.
Institutions and infrastructure are
prerequisites for successful interventions.
Successful programs to integrate slums
have been built on a foundation of spatially
blind and spatially connective policies. This
integration included the establishment of
institutions to effectively govern the working of the housing market, a spatially blind
provision of social and basic services to all
settlements, and transport infrastructure
investments to connect the newly created
housing areas.
Slum clearance requires a legislative basis
to empower local authorities to take action
and institutions to facilitate an orderly conversion of land from agricultural to residential
or other purposes. At the same time, suburban development is made feasible through
the provision of basic amenities and social
services alongside ongoing improvements in
the transport connectivity of cities with their
suburbs and surrounding counties.
In London social outcry at the dreadful
conditions of Victorian slums provided the
impetus for slum clearance and improvement. But the efforts were preceded by
steps to improve housing markets and
transport systems. The Housing of the
Working Classes Act 1890 provided local
authorities with the power to build houses
for the working classes and to clear areas
of unfit housing. An amendment gave local

WDR09_15_Ch07.indd 212

authorities powers to retain the houses built
under slum-clearance schemes, paving the
way for future public housing schemes.
Better transport was part of the solution,
evidenced by conferences in 1901 on the
subject of “Improved Means of Locomotion as a First Step towards the Cure of
the Housing Difficulties of London.” The
conferences passed a resolution that “a
complete system of transportation radiating from urban centers, and which shall be
cheap, rapid, and under municipal ownership, is a primary step towards dealing with
the housing problem.”40 Londoners obviously understood that connective policies
must precede targeted interventions.
Indeed, the link between improvements
in spatially connective transport infrastructure and the solution of London’s slum
problem was made clearly in the policy
discourse of the time. In 1890 the Cheap
Trains for London Workers Bill proposed
extending the provision and further regulating the fares on “workmen’s trains.” The
private railway companies already had been
obliged by law to introduce these trains in
1883, to provide an affordable means of
commuting to working-class workers who
lived in the suburbs but earned their living
in central London. By lowering the cost of
commuting, the suburbs could be developed, decongesting London’s central areas.
Likewise, during the late-nineteenth
and early twentieth century, governments
across North America and Western Europe
implemented large-scale slum clearance
and re-housing. Landowners were compensated, and the cleared land was sold for
redevelopment. These programs would not
have succeeded without a rapid expansion
of transport infrastructure. New transport
systems helped “open up” the outskirts, or
suburbs, of cities, making periurban housing attractive for both real estate developers and urban workers. The resulting flight
to the suburbs was also both a cause and
a consequence of the relocation of many
industries to the peripheries. And it coincided with the spread of basic social services and recreational amenities.
Policies to integrate slums into cities
have worked where institutions and infrastructure were adequate. After World

10/9/08 4:27:16 PM

213

Concentration without Congestion

War II, Sweden urbanized rapidly and
Stockholm’s population grew swiftly, from
741,000 in 1950 to 1.39 million in 1980.41
Stockholm had an inadequate and dilapidated housing stock, while rents were high
relative to most other European cities. 42 In
reaction, the Swedish government formed
the Royal Housing Commission in 1945. A
plan was formulated to demolish slums in
Stockholm and other cities, and re-house
the displaced slum dwellers in publicly
provided rental housing in well-designed
high-rise buildings on the city’s periphery.
The first generation of high-rise residential
buildings was integrated with the provision of schools, health clinics, and recreational and shopping facilities, as well as
service centers. Spatial connectivity to city
centers was ensured through easy access to
transport.43
Swedish authorities managed to continually upgrade urban living conditions
throughout the 1960s and 1970s. With the
Million Homes Programme the government
set itself the aim of ending innercity squalor
and overcrowding by building 100,000 new
dwellings a year from 1965 to 1974, adding
one-third to Sweden’s aggregate housing
stock of 3 million units.44 The new settlements provided basic amenities, including
schools and clinics, and were linked to urban
employment centers through well-planned
traffic systems.45
Similar lessons come from the United
States. By the end of the nineteenth century, American philanthropists had raised
awareness of the hardships facing slum
dwellers. They urged building regulations
to ensure minimum standards in the construction of new tenements.46 But it was not
until the 1930s that the government became
active in the provision of housing.47 Following the Great Depression, the United States
Housing Authority was established by the
Wagner-Steagall Housing Act of 1937, which
allowed for subsidized loans to be made
to local housing authorities for clearing
dilapidated areas and building replacement
homes. A sound legal framework enabled
national and state authorities, civil society
organizations, and private developers to
deal concertedly with slums. Good intraurban public transport systems connected

WDR09_15_Ch07.indd 213

the new housing developments to the local
city economies. As infrastructure improved
even more, particularly after the passage of
the Housing and Urban Development Act
1965, the more prosperous residents left the
city centers for the suburbs.48
Better connective infrastructure is a precondition for applying targeted policies to
deal with slum housing. This takes time,
but both Hong Kong, China, and Singapore
show that it can be done over decades rather
than centuries. Regardless of differences in
the speed, the sequencing of policies appears
to be the same: targeted policies to integrate
slums cannot come before the application of
geographically blind and connective policies
(see box 7.7).

B OX 7 . 7

Speeded up, but still in sequence: spatial integration
in twentieth-century Hong Kong, China

Before World War II, Hong Kong,
China, developed its administrative
structure and legislative framework
to govern land markets. In 1935,
mounting awareness of poor living
conditions in urban slums led to the
formation of a Housing Commission.
This was followed by the Town Planning Ordinance of 1939, which established a Town Planning Board.
Nevertheless, the proper implementation of the ordinance and town
planning in Hong Kong, China, had
to wait until after the passage of the
Town Planning Regulation in 1954. It
was only after the famous Shek Kip
Mei slum fire of 1953 that efforts to
develop public housing programs
went into full swing. In 1965 the
Working Party on Slum Clearance was
formed. It took Hong Kong, China (a
city in a hurry), more than 30 years
before it began effectively addressing the problem through spatially
targeted interventions. Hong Kong,
China, first had to develop and
strengthen the spatially blind institutions governing the operation of land
and housing markets, and connective
infrastructure to improve the use of
land.
The first land use strategy and
zoning plan—the “Colony Outline
Plan and Outline Zoning Plans”—
were only drawn up in 1963. The

spatially blind institutions had to
be adapted over time as the city
developed and the urbanization
progressed. The 1939 Ordinance was
amended in 1958, 1969, and 1974. a
Having established the necessary
planning framework, Hong Kong,
China, was better placed to implement spatially connective policies in
the 1970s. These policies were a necessary response to the doubling of
car registration within a decade and
the concomitant increase in congestion that was a product of the city’s
rapid economic growth of around 10
percent a year.
Institutions and infrastructure went
hand in hand. With effective planning laws in place, the government
was able to introduce the Temporary
Restriction of Building Development
Ordinance of 1973 in the Pok Fu Lam
and Mid-Levels areas of Hong Kong,
China. This in turn paved the way for
building the Mass Transit Railway,
modifying building height restrictions in the area around the Kai Tak
Airport, and accelerating relief for an
overloaded transport network.
The result: the city now ranks
among the world’s top five in infrastructure efficiency, and the slums are
gone.b
Source: WDR 2009 team.
a. Bristow 1984. b. Cullinane 2002.

10/9/08 4:27:16 PM

214

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Targeted interventions may have to wait
until institutions and infrastructure have
been improved. The experience of developed
countries remains relevant today. Costa Rica,
South Africa, and Singapore show why.
During the 1980s, the combination of
rapid in situ population growth, migration,
and an influx of refugees from war-torn
neighboring countries made Costa Rica’s
already acute urban housing shortage even
worse. This led to the creation of a National
Housing Finance System in 1986. The aim
was to provide subsidies to low-income
households for house purchases or construction. Households were able to supplement
the funds that they received with loans from
private institutions, including commercial banks, savings and loans institutions,
and cooperatives. Minimum wage households were entitled to a full subsidy, while
households earning more than four times
the minimum had access to smaller subsidies and loans at near-market conditions.49
Costa Rica’s housing subsidy succeeded
because the necessary spatially blind institutions and spatially connective infrastructure were in place to facilitate its targeted
interventions. As early as 1869 the government decreed that primary education was
a basic universal right. The 1949 constitution guaranteed free access to secondary
education as well. Costa Rica’s government
invests more than 20 percent of its budget
in education each year, and has a literacy
rate of about 95 percent to show for it.
Similar investment in the public medical
system reduced infant mortality rates, with
an average life expectancy at birth of 79
years.50 Although incomes are much higher
in Costa Rica’s central regions, social indicators are similar across the country.51
Costa Rica has well-functioning institutions governing the land market. An effective property registry system is in place.
Indeed, more than 80 percent of property
owners possess registered titles, and there is
a high degree of legal security.52 The capital
city, San José, is linked with the major provincial cities by an efficient and affordable
bus system, and private bus companies connect San José and its outlying suburbs. In
many ways, Costa Rica is a model for other
developing countries.

WDR09_15_Ch07.indd 214

South Africa’s experience is more sobering. When the fi rst post-apartheid South
African government came to power in 1994,
it faced a housing crisis with an estimated
deficit of 1.5 million housing units and
an additional requirement of 170,000 new
units a year. Some 18 percent of households,
or 7.4 million people, lived in slums.53 The
new housing policy that emerged from
multiparty negotiations was implemented
through the Housing Act of 1997, providing housing-related subsidies to as many
people as possible for renting, purchasing,
constructing, and improving homes.
But the requisite institutions and connective infrastructure were not yet in place.
A range of reforms—including changes to
regional government boundaries, financial
support mechanisms, and housing-related
legislation—were introduced simultaneously. Indeed, the Housing Act repealed,
incorporated, or amended 35 separate
pieces of legislation.54 The first wave of lowcost housing developments, on the peripheries of major cities, lacked basic amenities
and transport links to city (and job) centers. These developments failed to ameliorate intraurban divisions. Recent shifts in
policy are more encouraging. The Breaking
New Ground national housing program has
focused on integrating low-income communities through improvements in access
to public transportation and basic social
and commercial services.55
Improving institutions and infrastructure and intervening at the same time is
a tall order for any government, but Singapore shows it can be done (see box 7.8).
Perhaps the most successful example of how
slums can be eradicated, Singapore is to
some extent an anomaly. It is one of the few
countries that have managed to implement
all three sets of integration policies simultaneously. Singapore was successful because it
had exceptionally rapid economic growth
and a focused government in power since
1965. The fact that it is a city-state helped
greatly, indirectly providing a general lesson: successful urbanization takes coordinated action at all levels of government.
Most countries will not be able to replicate Singapore’s efforts—aligning priorities and the effort of central, state, and city

10/9/08 4:27:17 PM

215

Concentration without Congestion

governments is difficult for any country
that is not a city-state. More likely, they will
have to sequence their policy efforts along
the path followed by Costa Rica and earlier
developers such as Great Britain, Sweden,
and the United States. South Africa shows
the difficulties of trying to implement all
three sets of policies simultaneously.

“An I for a D”—a policy instrument
for each dimension of urbanization’s
challenge
The sequence of policies corresponds to
different levels of urbanization. Incipient
urbanization requires mainly the application of spatially blind policies. Intermediate
urbanization requires the addition of spatially connective policies. And advanced
urbanization requires these and spatially
targeted efforts. So the success of the new
policy is predicated on the successful implementation of the ones introduced before it.
For a predominantly rural country whose
urban share is less than a quarter or so, the
portfolio of places is faced with what might
be termed a one-dimensional challenge—to
facilitate density (see table 7.1). It is not
obvious where this density will increase
first, and governments are best advised to
allow market forces to play themselves out.
Neutrality between places is the rule, and its
urbanization strategy should consist mainly
of spatially blind institutions. They include
the provision of basic and social services, the
establishment of market institutions and law
and order, the security of property rights,
the efficient operation of the land market,
and sound macroeconomic policies. Regulations must be versatile enough to facilitate
efficient land use conversion, and standards
for building must be enforceable without
being overly restrictive. This is a tall order
for governments in countries at the low levels of income with which low urbanization
rates are associated. They should not make
it harder by attempting spatially explicit
policies.
For a rapidly urbanizing country with
urban shares between one fourth and three
fourths, managing its portfolio of places is
mainly a two-dimensional challenge—to
build density and reduce distance to density. A two-dimensional challenge requires

WDR09_15_Ch07.indd 215

B OX 7 . 8

Singapore: from slums to world city

At independence in 1965, 70 percent
of Singapore’s households lived in
badly overcrowded conditions, and
a third of its people squatted on the
city fringes. Unemployment averaged 14 percent, GDP per capita
was less than $2,700, and half of the
population was illiterate. Falling
mortality rates and migration from
the Malay Peninsula implied rapid
population growth, further increasing the pressure on both housing
and employment: 600,000 additional
units of housing were needed, and
private supply was less than 60,000.
An account of this time comes from a
contemporary visitor to Singapore:a
The undercover walkways are usually
taken over by hawker stalls and junk.
Laundry hangs from poles thrust out of
windows above—just like in old Shanghai. This is Singapore, in the early 1970s.
We were all devastated at the time—we
who didn’t live here. From 1871 to 1931
the city’s Chinese population rose from
100,000 to 500,000. By 1960 it is estimated
that more than 500,000 Chinese were
living in slum-like conditions—indoors.
Equipped with only one kitchen and one
bathroom, the shophouses were designed
for two extended families at most. After
extensive partitioning many of them
housed up to 50 individuals.

Today, less than 40 years later,
Singapore’s slums are gone. In their
place is one of the cleanest and most
welcoming cities in the world. The
secret? First, institutional reforms
made the government known for
its accountability. Then, the gov-

ernment became a major provider
of infrastructure and services. The
scarcity of land made good planning an imperative. Multiyear plans
were produced, implemented, and
updated. Finally, the housing authority (HDB) was mandated to undertake
a massive program of slum clearance,
housing construction, and urban
renewal. Public housing has been
an integral part of all development
plans. At the height of the program,
HDB was building a new flat every
eight minutes. Of Singapore’s population, 86 percent now lives in publicly built units. Most own their flats,
encouraged by special housing funds
financed from the Employees Provident Fund, a mandatory retirement
scheme. Serviced land was made
available. Through the Land Amalgamation act, the government acquired
almost one-third of city land. Slum
dwellers were relocated to public
housing.
For a city-state in a poor region, it
is not an exaggeration to assert that
effective urbanization was responsible for delivering growth rates that
averaged 8 percent a year throughout the 1970s and 1980s. It required
a combination of market institutions
and social service provision, strategic
investment in infrastructure, and
improved housing for slum dwellers.
Sources: Yuen 2004, Yusuf and
Nabeshima 2006.
a. Cockrem 2007.

a two-pronged response: continuing the
task of building spatially blind institutions,
and investing in spatially connective infrastructure to offset the congestion that might
otherwise offset the efficiency gains from
“localization economies” (see chapter 4).
For a highly urbanized country with
urban shares above 75 percent, urbanization should emphasize livability, creativity,
and urban social integration—the delivery
of “urbanization economies.” These countries face a three-dimensional challenge—to
build density, reduce distance, and diminish
divisions. To be sure, these countries have

10/9/08 4:27:17 PM

216

Table 7.1

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

An instrument per dimension—a simple framework for urbanization policies
Area
Incipient urbanization

Intermediate urbanization

Advanced urbanization

Urban shares

Less than 25 percent

About 50 percent

More than 75 percent

Examples

Kampong Speu, Cambodia; Lindi,
Tanzania

Chengdu, China; Hyderabad, India

Greater Cairo, the Arab Republic of Egypt; Rio
de Janeiro, Brazil

Dimensions of policy
challenge

1-D: Build density

2-D: Build density, reduce distance

3-D: Build density, reduce distance, eliminate
division

Land rights; basic education,
health and water and sanitation

Land use regulations; universal
provision of basic and social services

Land use regulation and land taxation;
universal provision of basic services

Instruments for integration
Institutions
Infrastructure

Transport infrastructure

Interventions

Transport infrastructure; demand management
Slum area development; targeted programs to
reduce crime and environmental degradation

Source: WDR 2009 team.

a varied economic geography: their portfolio of places consists of a handful of onedimensional areas, a good proportion face
two-dimensional challenges, and some face
three-dimensional challenges. Spatially blind
and connective policies continue to facilitate
agglomeration economies, but now they also
are prerequisites for successful interventions
to reduce within-city divisions.

The framework in action
Low-density areas should build economic
density through rural-urban transformations and stronger links between villages
and towns. Rapidly urbanizing areas should
ensure that the productivity gains from economic density are not offset by congestion
costs. Highly urbanized areas should focus
on livability by promoting social integration and the gains from economic concentration. The priorities at the national level
correspond with the predominance of one
or more of these types of areas.

Incipient urbanizers (one-dimensional
areas): institutions for more efficient
rural-urban transformations
The recent developers show that success
does not require explicitly spatial policies
to lay the groundwork for successful urbanization. For areas of incipient urbanization,
the policy priorities remain the provision of
basic social services and the improvement
of land markets.
Emphasize social services. In 1960 the
Republic of Korea had a GDP per capita

WDR09_15_Ch07.indd 216

level roughly the same as Benin, Cambodia,
or Tajikistan. Since then it has transformed
itself into a leading industrial country.56
Consistent with the stylized facts of chapter
1, the Republic of Korea’s sectoral transformation has been accompanied by an equally
radical spatial transformation. In 1960
about 75 percent of all Korean citizens lived
in rural areas. By 1990 the country was 75
percent urban, and today the urban share of
the population exceeds 80 percent.57
Institutions to ensure the universal
availability of basic social services helped
the nation lay the foundations of rapid and
successful urbanization. In 1960 the proportion of the overall population age 15 and
over with no schooling was 36 percent, and
by 1980, when it had entered the intermediate urbanization stage, this proportion had
fallen to less than 15 percent. By 2000, some
years after it entered the advanced stage,
the proportion was less than 5 percent. The
years of schooling of the average member
of the labor force had increased from five
years in 1960 to nine years in 1980, rising
to more than 12 years by 2000.58 A similar story unfolded for health-related services. In 1980 only 4 percent of children
were immunized against measles. By 1989,
95 percent were. In 2006 only one child in
every 100 was not immunized.
Matching the universal provision of education and health services has been the nationwide flexibility in land use conversion.59 In
particular, the Republic of Korea’s government has been willing to convert agricultural
land for industrial purposes. The central

10/9/08 4:27:17 PM

217

Concentration without Congestion

government also encouraged local governments to promote the conversion of agricultural land through the formation of smaller,
more localized industrial complexes.
While some areas have inevitably been
left behind in the Republic of Korea’s urbanization process, none has been left disadvantaged. Take Eumseong county, a largely rural
area in Chungcheongbukdo province (see
map 7.1). As the Republic of Korea industrialized and urbanized, the county experienced a continual outflow of people. In 1968
the population exceeded 120,000, but by
1990 it had fallen to just under 75,000. But
even as the people of Eumseong were seeing
their neighbors move closer to Korea’s major
cities, they got better education and health
services and improved streets and sanitation.
Between 1969 and 1990, middle and high
school teachers tripled in Eumseong county
from 1,000 to around 3,000. And the number of hospitals per million population in
Chungcheongbukdo province doubled from
around 400 in 1980 to 800 in 1990, while the
water supply coverage increased from less
than 30 percent to almost 60 percent. People
left Eumseong, but the Korean government
did not abandon the county—instead, it
continued to emphasize the universal provision of basic and social services.
The Republic of Korea is not the only
successful economy to provide evidence of
the framework in action. Over the last two
decades, China has been gradually putting in
place the institutions to improve its urbanization processes. An urban land market has
been created, and regulations standardizing
the assignment of land use rights have been
established.60 In the 1980s the urban planning
law was aimed at controlling the size of large
cities, but the 10th Five-Year Plan (2001–05)
instead chose to emphasize the synergistic
development of China’s large, medium, and
small cities. The household registration system, which for years had imposed restrictions on rural migrants looking to move to
urban areas, has been reformed, and the 11th
Five-Year Plan (2006–10) aims to further
strengthen land market institutions.
Against this backdrop the urbanization
prospects of China’s one-dimensional areas
have improved. Take Guizhou province. In
southwest China, and home to almost 40
million people, Guizhou lags far behind the

WDR09_15_Ch07.indd 217

coastal provinces (see map 7.2). Its GDP per
capita in 2005 was only 34 percent of the Chinese average,61 with almost 75 percent of its
population classified as rural. The challenge
Guizhou faces is building density to facilitate
agglomeration economies. Its 11th Five-Year
Plan (2006–10) aims to deliver an urban share
of 35 percent by focusing on the area’s largest city, Guiyang. With the improvements
in spatially blind institutions in China, this
Map 7.1

The Republic of Korea—three areas at different stages of urbanization

3D Area: Seoul
Metropolitan Area

KANGWON

KYONGGI

1D Area: Eumseoung
County
NORTH
CHUNGCHONG
SOUTH
CHUNGCHONG

NORTH
KYONGSANG

2D Area: Daegu
Metropolitan Area
NORTH
CHOLLA

SOUTH KYONGSANG
PUSAN
SOUTH
CHOLLA

CHEJU

Source: WDR 2009 team.

10/9/08 4:27:18 PM

218

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Map 7.2

China—three areas at different stages of urbanization

HEILONGJIANG

JILIN

NEI MONGOL

LIAONING

BEIJING

Beijing
TIANJIN
HEBEI

GANSU
NINGXIA

SHANDONG

SHANXI
QINGHAI

SHAANXI

HENAN

JIANGSU
ANHUI

HUBEI

SHANGHAI

SICHUAN
ZHEJIANG
CHONGQING
JIANGXI

1D Area: Guizhou
Province

HUNAN

2D Area: Changsha–Zhuzhou–
Xiangfan Cluster

GUIZHOU

FUJIAN

TAIWAN

YUNNAN
GUANGXI

GUANGDONG
HONG KONG
MACAO

3D Area: Pearl
River Delta
HAINAN

Source: WDR 2009 team.

appears to be more realistic now than would
have been the case two decades ago.
Define and enforce land rights. Kampong Speu province in Cambodia, about 100
kilometers southwest of Phnom Penh, covers
about 7,000 squares kilometers. It has about
700,000 people, and is 10 percent urban. A
few market towns serve its farming communes of Mohasaing, Ou, Traeng Trayeung,
and others. Many villages are beneficiaries
of the land registration and titling begun in
2000. The aims are to strengthen land tenure
security and land markets, formulate policies
for land administration and management,
develop mechanisms for dispute resolution,
and establish a national land registration

WDR09_15_Ch07.indd 218

system. The results are more security of tenure—leading to easier transactions, higher
land values, and more land investments—
and greater mobility to urban areas.
Kampong Speu illustrates the critical
issues for areas of incipient urbanizers.
Spatially blind policies to encourage ruralurban integration should be the mainstay
of a government’s strategy: improve land
markets and property rights, improve rural
and urban social services, and encourage
inclusive governance in towns and small
cities (box 7.9 discusses the importance of
land titling in Cambodia and Vietnam).
Secure tenure promotes greater investment in land and shelter, improves the ability to transfer land, and enhances access to
credit. China, Pakistan, and Vietnam confirm its importance for investment in lowdensity areas. Farmers use more labor and
inputs on owned plots than on leased land.
They also use land as collateral for new
activities and benefit from increases in land
prices. In India the prices for titled land are,
on average, 15 percent higher than those for
untitled land. In the Philippines secure housing commands prices 58 percent higher than
housing without title, and in Jakarta prices
for secure housing are 73 percent higher.62
Despite these obvious advantages, more
than 50 percent of the periurban population
in Africa and more than 40 percent in Asia
lives under informal tenure. In many countries improving land tenure (and registration) is hindered by political and customary
tenure arrangements. In Africa, where customary institutions cover between 90 and 98
percent of the land, policies to formalize land
tenure must start with customary systems
and gradually add features of modern land
registration. Once community-recognized
rights are obtained in Benin, Ghana,
Mozambique, and Namibia, individuals can
apply for land certification and full registration, and both can be used for credit.
Improve land administration. Central
Asia and Eastern Europe have the most systematic experience in tackling land administration, from Central European countries
with old traditions of land markets, to Central Asian countries where no land markets
existed. During the transition from plan to
market, countries tried to reestablish equity
in land and property rights, deepen land

10/9/08 4:27:18 PM

219

Concentration without Congestion

B OX 7.9

Titling land for a sustainable rural-urban transformation

“Application receipts”
in Cambodia
Cambodia is formalizing ownership of
land through the distribution of land
titles, with immediate benefits in higher
productivity and land values.a Although
the courts and other formal institutions
to resolve land conflicts are slow, formal
land rights documents carry authority
in most rural communities. If landholders hold a formal title to a disputed plot
of land, their position is considerably
strengthened, even if the conflict is
resolved through informal means.
In 1989 individual land use in agriculture was codified by law.b Rural residents
were encouraged to submit applications
for land ownership certificates, and applications came in for 4 million plots. Due to
the limited administrative capacity and
reach of the government, only about half
a million titles were actually distributed.c
But people who applied got an “application receipt,” and this document often
worked as a formal title.d

This view was backed by the 1992
land law, which ruled that an application
receipt is a valid claim on the plot. In 2004
the government initiated a comprehensive
land management and administration program, and one of its central components
includes a systematic titling scheme. By
the end of 2005 about 457,000 plots had
been registered under this program, and
166,000 titles had been distributed.e

“Red books” in Vietnam
In 1981 Vietnam moved to a system similar to the Chinese “household responsibility system,” with land users entitled to
keep surplus production above a fixed
quota. In 1988 some individual property
rights to agricultural land were transferred to farmer households. In the 1993
land law, the distribution of land use
certificates—known as “red books”—
was mandated. Red books come with
the rights to sell, rent, mortgage, and
bequeath land. So the idea of a land market was formally sanctioned.

and capital markets, and improve public
functions such as land taxation, planning,
and asset management. Now they have to
improve mechanisms to enable registrations,
valuations, and transactions (see box 7.10).
Instituting mechanisms to govern land
use and conversion can be difficult. Some
nations fear that land conversion would hurt
grain production and food security (China
and the Arab Republic of Egypt). Many others are constrained by traditional forms of
land tenure, such as the communal systems
in Africa and the ejido in Mexico. In cases of
unclear property title, land conversion tends
to benefit the state and the developers at the
cost of the farmers or rural households that
traditionally held or cultivated this land.
In Mexico the traditional communal land
system has evolved to enable land transactions. After the 1917 revolution, Mexico distributed more than 100 million hectares, or
50 percent of its arable area, from large farms
to ejidos, rural communities organized along
the precolonial indigenous social structures.
But the redistribution undermined property
rights, and the requirement that land be used
for self-cultivation precluded rental markets.

WDR09_15_Ch07.indd 219

B OX 7 . 1 0

Red books increase land market
activities, and these activities increase
agricultural productivity by transferring
land to the most productive users, reducing inefficiencies.f The liberalization of
the land market has been followed by
increased mobility as households sell
land to take up new economic opportunities in the wage labor sector.g So a
more fluid land market has facilitated the
ongoing shift in Vietnam from a predominantly agricultural economy to a more
diversified and urbanized economy. It is a
big part of a strategy that has yielded perhaps the most impressive poverty reduction in any country in recent history.h
Contributed by Thomas Markussen.
a. Markussen forthcoming; World Bank 2003b.
b. Boreak 2000.
c. Sophal, Saravi, and Acharya 2001.
d. Sovannarith and others 2001.
e. Deutsch 2006.
f. Deininger and Jin 2003; Ravallion and van
de Walle 2006b.
g. Ravallion and van de Walle 2006a.
h. World Bank 2003b.

Land markets in transition

In the first phase, Eastern Europe and
Central Asia restored property rights,
privatized state-owned assets, and
promoted equity in housing. Next,
they rebuilt the land administration
systems for cadastre and registration
followed. Proper records were needed
to stimulate real estate markets and
take care of land allocation and consolidation. Information infrastructure,
institutional capacity, and databases
were the areas of focus. Now some are
entering the third phase of collecting
property taxes, managing public land,
and issuing building permits.
Some lessons:
• Reforming dysfunctional legal and
institutional systems such as those
in Latin America, may be more difficult than starting anew (the Kyrgyz
Republic, Georgia).
• A single agency should be responsible for both registration and

cadastres. More efficient, a combined system is easier to make selffinancing.
• A local champion is needed, preferably not a surveyor or a lawyer.
Enthusiastic change managers
were instrumental in Moldova and
the Czech Republic. Competent
officials in the Russian Federation,
Serbia, and Turkey were needed
to design and implement the new
systems. Systematic registration
was not necessary because good
land records predated socialism,
and there were few transactions
during the socialist period.
• A solid system with Web-based
applications to reduce user
transaction costs and the opportunities for corruption can be
updated on its own.
Contributed by Cora Shaw and Gavin P.
Adlington.

10/9/08 4:27:19 PM

220

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

In 1991 the system gave more freedom to ejidos to sell and rent land. Of 150,000 hectares
used for urban development between 1995
and 2000, more than two-thirds were from
ejidos. The off-farm income of the farmers increased 45 percent. (Box 7.11 presents
promising examples.)

Intermediate urbanization
(two-dimensional areas): institutions
and infrastructure for increasing
density and reducing congestion
Rapidly urbanizing areas expect a continuing influx of migrants and increasing

B OX 7.11

Strengthening land market institutions for rural-urban integration

Land management on Douala’s
urban fringe—Cameroon’s
Mbanga-Japoma Project
Mbanga-Japoma, a land development project in Douala, Cameroon, provides serviced
land at a reasonable price and reconciles
formal and customary development practices. The first phase, covering 160 hectares
30 kilometers from the city center, started
as a partnership among public institutions,
formal private investors, and customary
owners. The partnership develops the site
with primary and secondary infrastructure
services (roads, water, sewerage, drainage,
electricity), delineating blocks of land of
between 1 and 8 hectares. The developer
gives back 45 percent of the land to customary landowners, keeping 55 percent.
Blocks are then subdivided and sold, either
by the developer or by customary owners.
The final cost of a serviced plot is much
lower than one provided by the formal
private sector.
Although there are questions about eligibility for purchasing the serviced plots,
the approach provides a new perspective
for partnerships in managing rural-urban
land use in and near Sub-Saharan cities.

Secondary land rights and farming
in central Mali
Secondary land rights—including sharecropping, tenancy, and borrowing land
under customary tenure—are often seen
as exploitative because they do not give
permanent tenure to users. But in some
circumstances they can benefit both secondary and permanent rights holders. In
the village of Baguinéda, in central Mali,

WDR09_15_Ch07.indd 220

congestion. The priorities include providing social services for rural and urban
residents, ensuring fluid land markets, and
investing in infrastructure in and around
the growing city centers.
Expand administrative jurisdictions
to coordinate infrastructure investments.
Among the many cities that have absorbed
rural Koreans are Seoul and Daegu. Both
of these cities were initially able to urbanize
against a backdrop of spatially blind policies, but they soon began to face congestion,
which required spatially connective policies.
Indeed, housing congestion in Seoul became

secondary rights allow small-scale farmers to hire migrant workers in exchange
for temporary rights to cultivate plots.
The system is highly structured, with
specific days of the week designated for
laborers and others who are working on
the borrowed land. Land tenure in the village is almost exclusively under the customary system, controlled by the village
council, allowing for secondary rights
allocations. Strong demand from nearby
urban markets for horticultural produce
makes cultivating of even a small plot
profitable and thus attractive to migrants.

Inclusive administration—the
Republic of Korea’s integrated cities
The Republic of Korea developed the ruralurban integrated city to overcome the
shortcomings of earlier rural development
initiatives. The integrated city policy incorporates rural counties with cities in a unified spatial framework. It aims to improve
local public services and local administration and reduce rural-urban disparities.
Starting in 1994 the government
selected 49 cities and 43 counties as candidates. The selection criteria included
historical homogeneity, natural topographical conditions, and the potential
for balanced development within the
integrated city. The selected cities and
counties held public hearings and citizen
surveys. After this screening, 41 cities and
39 counties were amalgamated into 40
rural-urban integrated cities.
Attitude surveys suggest that residents
and local councils see the benefits. Everyone agrees that the integrated city makes

for better land use planning in urban
areas. Areas for improvement include the
equity of service provision, since rural and
urban residents have different needs, and
the weak rural voice, since urbanites are
believed to be more organized.

Land consolidation in Indonesia
The Land Consolidation Program implemented in Indonesia in the 1990s shows
how to facilitate the orderly development of fast-growing areas and to plan
the development of vacant areas on the
urban fringe.
The mayor has the authority to determine the location of consolidation areas
and to manage and supervise the process. But the key actors are the private
landowners and the occupiers of (stateowned) land.
The minimum requirement for land
consolidation is to have at least 85 percent of landowners representing at least
85 percent of the land area give their
agreement. All participants contribute
by providing land for infrastructure and
services. The amount of land a participant is required to give up is determined
by consensus. Small landowners who
cannot contribute land can contribute
money or labor. The contributions fund
infrastructure and utilities—and build
a pool of “cost-equivalent land,” to
be used only by small landowners to
enlarge their parcels.
Sources: WDR 2009 team; Groupe Recherche/Actions pour le Développement 2001;
and Kim 1998.

10/9/08 4:27:20 PM

Concentration without Congestion

a severe problem in 1960 as the area grew
through the intermediate stage of urbanization and absorbed a large influx of people
from abroad after the country gained independence from Japan and from rural areas
in the Republic of Korea. To help tackle this
problem, the area of Gangnam, south of the
Han River, was absorbed into Seoul’s territory in 1963, and the Gangnam Development
Program initiated. This program involved a
series of spatially connective infrastructure
projects spread over 30 years, including
several bridges across the Han River and a
54.2-kilometer circular subway line to link
Gangnam with central Seoul.
Daegu’s story is similar. Between 1950 and
1990, Daegu’s population swelled by a factor
of six, from 355,000 to nearly 2 million,63 as
its thriving textile industry pulled in rural
migrants seeking a better life. The policy
response was to integrate Daegu and its hinterland by expanding its administrative zone
in 1987 and again in 1995, followed by building a subway system and expanding the city
bus system. The city also experienced continual building and upgrading of local roads.
In 1980 just over 40 percent of Daegu’s local
roads were paved, and by 1995, virtually all
had been paved.
Combining universal access to the most
basic services and reasonable land markets
with investments to improve spatial connectivity with other areas of the country,
Daegu has thrived. Manufacturing has
deconcentrated from Daegu into the surrounding Gyeongsangbukdo province,
and the local economy has diversified,
reducing its reliance on the textile industry and moving into sectors with higher
value added production. Daegu now sits at
the center of a vibrant urban system surrounded by five cities, all with easy transport access to the central city, and each
having evolved to provide localization
economies (see map 7.3). Gumi has been
dubbed “Korea’s Silicon Valley” for its
specialization in electronics, while coastal
Pohang and Ulsan, respectively, provide
homes for the Pohang Steel Company and
Hyundai. Ulsan also houses one of the biggest shipbuilding industries in the world,
and both these cities have been on the

WDR09_15_Ch07.indd 221

221

Map 7.3 Decentralization and localization
economies in Daegu
Daegu urban area
Daegu city center
Highways
KTX High-speed train
Industrial centers
90 km

60 km

Gumi
Electronics
80 million
mobile phones
per year,
1.4 million
LCDs per year

30 km

Pohang
Machinery &

DAEGU auto:

31 million
cars per year

Ulsan
Automotive:
1.8 million
cars per year
Busan
Container terminal:
1,500 kton
Changwon
Machinery & auto: 240,000 cars per year
Source: Daegu Metropolitan City.

forefront of the Republic Korea’s exportled industrialization.
Other examples are Chongqing and
Chengdu, both rapidly urbanizing areas
in southwestern China. In line with an
unabashedly urbanization-based economic
growth strategy, China is piloting the “area
approach” in western China. At about 43
percent, they have similar urban shares to
the average for China. The objective is to
increase those shares to 70 percent in 2020,
but in a manner that speeds the concentration of economic activities while reducing
rural-urban disparities in living standards.
The mainstays of the strategy are institutions and infrastructure (see box 5 in the
overview).
If markets favor the two places as much
as the central and provincial governments
have, the two cities will improve the lives
of millions in the Chinese hinterland. The
initiatives have already had a local impact.
In Chongqing rural incomes in the first half
of 2007 increased faster than those of urban
residents. Foreign investment is about the
same as it was in Shanghai a decade ago.
Industries are attracted to the low wages
and low cost of land. According to government statistics, average wages, at $2 to $3 a
day, are much lower than those in Beijing

10/9/08 4:27:20 PM

222

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

or Shanghai. In Chengdu farmer concentrations are believed to have increased productivity by 80 percent. Industrialization
has been absorbing about 100,000 farmers
a year, with some narrowing of rural-urban
income differences.
Several areas at the intermediate stage of
urbanization in China appear to conform
to the principle of an additional instrument
for the dimensional challenge of congestion. An example is the tri-city area in the
northeast of Hunan province, in central
China (see map 7.4). The cluster of three
cities—Changsha, Zhuzhou, and Xiangtan—has a combined population of around
13 million and accounts for about one-fifth
of the province. With an income exceeding
the national average by 17 percent and the
Hunan average by 61 percent, this cluster is
an intermediate urbanization area with an
urban share of half.
An area plan—the fi rst of its kind in
inland China—was formulated in 2005.64
The plan specifies a regulatory land use
planning framework within which market
prices will be allowed to allocate land for
different uses. It also provides planning
guidelines including, for example, enforcing land use rights and promoting land

Map 7.4 Changsha, Zhuzhou, and Xiangtan—spatially
connective infrastructure in a two dimensional area

CHANGSHA
Changsha
Zhuzhou
Xiangtan

Loudi

Pingxiang

XIANGTAN

JIAN GXI
ZHUZHOU

H U NA N
Hengyang

Main connective artery
Secondary transport axis
Tertiary transport axis
Source: China Urban Planning and Design Institute and Hunan
Development and Reform Commission 2005.
Note: The main artery is formed by the Beijing-Guangzhou
railway, Beijing-Zhuhai highway, and State Highway 107.

WDR09_15_Ch07.indd 222

intensification in central city areas. The
plan sets out a series of spatially connective
policies aiming to promote connectivity
between the three cities in the cluster. These
include highway and rail-based expressway
projects to connect Xiangtan with Zhuzhou
and ring roads around each of the three cities. The plan is a good illustration of how
the principle of “an I for a D” can be made
operational using an area approach.
Invest in transport connectivity while
continuing institutional reform. Developed metropolitan areas rarely leave city
growth unplanned. Land and housing
markets help allocate residential and office
space. Rapidly expanding systems need
clear property rights to provide incentives
for land transactions and correct land valuation to avoid an urban bias and too much
migration to the city. Singapore develops
land and housing plans every 10 years and
lets the market function once public and
private sectors agree on which economic
activities to develop and which residential
patterns are needed to accommodate firms
and workers.
Urban transport, along with urban land
management, determines the shape of the
city and its ecological footprint. Urban
mobility is particularly important for the
poor. In Buenos Aires 87 percent of the jobs
in the metropolitan area are accessible in
45 minutes. In Mexico City 20 percent of
workers spend more than three hours traveling to and from work each day. The urban
poor in Beijing and Shanghai spend less
than 5 percent of their income on transport
because they walk or cycle. If they chose to
travel by bus, the costs would be 40 percent
of their income.65 Brazil’s vale de transporte
is an effective way to subsidize poor workers
in the absence of good urban transport—
financed by the central government and by
the employer in equal parts. Several large
cities have public transport networks that
are used extensively—metro in Delhi, Kolkata, and Mumbai, buses and metro in São
Paulo—but the network quickly becomes
inadequate and congested because of the
rapid population growth. Regular maintenance and new investments in infrastructure are needed to sustain density in urban
areas (see box 7.12).

10/9/08 4:27:21 PM

223

Concentration without Congestion

Put infrastructure in the most promising places. Several countries have created
new cities to move a capital city (Brasília),
to decongest the capital (Seoul), or for economic reasons. Creating new cities with
the sole purpose of diverting population
from the capital is often risky, evidenced
by Brazil, France, República Bolivariana de
Venezuela, the United Kingdom, and more
recently Egypt and Nigeria.66 New cities
become attractive to private investors only
after they reach a threshold, but there is no
way to know that threshold.67 And when
cities are created far from main transport
networks and business centers, they are
unlikely to be economic successes.
When markets identify promising cities,
strategic investments in infrastructure and
public goods can accelerate their potential
for economic growth (see box 7.13). Secondary cities that promote access to markets,
improve city management, and build human
capital seem a better alternative. And if political concerns dictate the creation of new cities, efficiency concerns will guide locations
to be close to growing markets and to have
access to infrastructure. Working with existing cities is preferable to creating new cities
from scratch. But, if new cities are created,
they should be constructed on an appropriate scale, close to markets, and planned to
generate demand-side links.

Advanced urbanizers
(three-dimensional areas):
institutions and infrastructure for
higher density and shorter distance,
and targeted incentives to
address divisions
Successful metropolitan areas in both
developed and developing countries have
well-functioning land markets, representative management, state-of-the art transport
infrastructure, and social policies to integrate low-income residents.
Use an inclusive mix of institutions,
infrastructure, and incentives. Colombia’s capital, Bogotá, shows the resolve and
resources needed for inclusive urbanization in a metropolitan region. Although
the area’s income places it in upper-middle-income levels, 43 percent of its population of 6.7 million is considered poor. One

WDR09_15_Ch07.indd 223

B OX 7 . 1 2

Retrofitting transport infrastructure in Bangkok

In the 1990s it was estimated that the
average car in Bangkok spent 44 days
each year stationary in traffic. How
did this situation come to pass? And
how is it being remedied?
A city of around 7 million people,
Bangkok is the product of hundreds
of years of incremental growth along
traditional land configurations. The
result is a city woven with narrow
lanes, many of them culs-de-sac
(called soi), but with few arterial
roads. Indeed, the arterial roads can
be as far as 7 kilometers or more
apart. According to a recent estimate,
roads account for only about 6.1
percent of Bangkok’s land area in
the inner city, and only 1.7 percent in
its peripheral areas. In high-income
countries it is usual for 20 to 30 percent of urban land area to be devoted
to roads. Even with this extreme congestion, economic activity has been
slow to decentralize to other cities in

Thailand, or to suburban districts of
Bangkok, because of the enduring
attraction of Bangkok’s agglomeration economies, sociocultural amenities, and key export infrastructure,
including its port.
In recent years several flyovers and
elevated expressways have been built,
along with an elevated railway system
(Skytrain), dedicated bus lanes, and
two peripheral ring roads. But car
ownership has shot up, too, adding to
the traffic and diminishing the impact
of remedial investments. Looking to
the future, congestion pricing and
increased parking fees appear to be
promising policy options. Reducing
fares on the Skytrain and extending
rapid transit to more of Bangkok,
perhaps using bus rapid transit, pose
greater challenges.
Contributed by Austin Kilroy.
Sources: Angel 2008, Bae and Suthiranart 2003, and Gakenheimer 1999.

of 12 residents lives in a slum, and about
one-third of new citizens in recent years are
rural migrants. The city has taken steps to
make urbanization inclusive. It built better
schools, renewed parks, started community
centers, and improved main networks for
water and sanitation. Since 2000 a public-private bus rapid transit system, the
TransMilenio, has improved citywide accessibility. Travel times have fallen by an average of 15 minutes, with larger reductions
for households in poorer parts of the city
(see map 7.5). Aided by these infrastructure improvements, Bogotá’s internationally recognized Programa de Mejoramiento
Integral de Barrios has assisted the poorest
neighborhoods to integrate with the city.
Begun in 2003 it has already helped 930,000
people. The program is believed to have
contributed increases of up to 11 percent in
house values.68
The Republic of Korea also provides
lessons. In the 1950s it had an estimated
136,650 unregistered slum districts, more
than 2,200 in the core of Seoul.69 Spatially
targeted policies to redevelop Seoul’s slum
areas started as early as the mid-1960s.

10/9/08 4:27:21 PM

224

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

B OX 7.13

New cities: escapes from urban jungles, or cathedrals in the desert?

New cities were attempted in Europe without much success. In the United Kingdom
the Barlow Commission Report of 1940
stimulated interest in new towns. Between
1947 and 1968, Britain created 26 new
towns to control the growth of London
and stimulate development in Scotland
and Wales. In 1965 France followed a similar program—nine towns, five in the Paris
area and four in lagging areas, were constructed. These programs soon were interrupted and put aside as unsustainable. The
new towns never reached their targeted
population, nor did they forestall the
growth of London or Paris. The experience
in developing countries has been mixed.

Failure in the Arab Republic of Egypt
Egypt’s program of new cities is the
world’s largest. In 20 years Egypt has
built 20 new cities and is preparing for
45 more. The first set of 24 cities was
launched in 1974–75 as a manifestation of
the political commitment to conquer the
desert and ensure sustainable growth.
Large industrial zones were created and
generous tax incentives were given to the
private sector. Land was virtually free. The
“first generation” of new towns included
six towns, each with its own industrial
base and large target populations. a Ten
years later—by the mid-1980s—the next
program based on satellite settlements
was launched, and nine second-generation settlements were launched around
Greater Cairo. A third generation included
twin towns close to provincial capitals,
such as New Thebes.
The performance of the six cities created 30 years ago suggests a mixed

record at best. Cities closer to Cairo
have attracted businesses and people,
though much fewer than anticipated.
Cities distant from Cairo (including Sadat
City, supposedly the new capital) remain
unattractive for skilled labor due to lack
of amenities and transport links. The new
cities have no more than 1 million inhabitants (1 percent of Egypt’s population),
compared with the 5 million target set
for 2005. The program was also costly: 22
percent of the Ministry of Infrastructure’s
investment under the Fourth Plan (1997–
2001) was spent in these new towns. This
will increase if the government continues
its policy of developing the urban fringes.
The emphasis on attracting investment
was not balanced by the need to make
cities attractive for skilled labor and accessible from the established urban centers.
Eventually, the creation of the new cities
had little impact on decongesting greater
Cairo.

Success in China
China’s approach recognizes the need to
create cities with access to major markets
and transportation networks. Shenzhen
was the first special economic zone
(SEZ) to be approved by Deng Xiaoping
in 1980. From a small town with 30,000
inhabitants, it grew to 800,000 in 1988
and 7 million in 2000. The new residents
include the best-trained professionals in
the country, attracted by high salaries,
better housing, and education opportunities for their children. GDP per capita
increased more than 60 times.
Shenzhen owes its success to its nearness to Hong Kong, China; its connected-

But without the requisite investments in
spatially blind institutions and spatially
connective infrastructure in place, these
policies succeeded only in relocating the
slums to new slum areas such as Mokdang,
Nangok, and Shillim near the Guro Industrial Complex, whose textile and other
industries provided low-skill employment
opportunities for rural migrants.
The Republic of Korea’s government
would have more luck when it tried again
with an expanded set of policies in the
1980s. By this time, the Republic of Korea

WDR09_15_Ch07.indd 224

ness within the area and with other cities
in China; and its urban form:
• Access to foreign markets. Locating the
SEZ close to the city of Hong Kong,
China, facilitated foreign investment,
technical assistance, and access to foreign markets.
• Connectedness within the area. To
spread the fruits of development, the
boundaries of the municipality were
expanded to extend the benefits of
the city to all workers. The rural hukou
was abolished in the municipality, and
all urban services became accessible
to all residents. Placing the Shenzhen
city-area in the Pearl River Delta area
ensured the best possible links to its
hinterland and other urban nodes in
the Delta regions. Complementary
decisions to ease the mobility and
integration include investments in
transport infrastructure and a shift
from a road-based to a rail-based
system.
• Functional urban form. The comprehensive plan for Shenzhen envisions a
polycentric metropolis that connects
the SEZ to urban nodes through efficient transport.

Sources: WDR 2009 team; Stewart 1996; and
World Bank 2007k.
a. For example, Sixth of October had an
original target population of 500,000,
which was raised in the late 1980s to 1 million, and currently the target is 2.5 million.
The actual population is probably less than
200,000.

was closing in on the advanced stage of
urbanization, and Seoul’s population level
had started to stabilize (see map 7.6). Furthermore, enough time had elapsed for the
earlier spatially blind and connective policies to take full effect.
Between 1984 and 1990, expanding
road capacity struggled to keep up with the
growth of vehicle ownership. More extensive plans of city-periphery integration were
required, and in 1989 the New City Development plan was launched. Five new cities
were encouraged around 25–30 kilometers

10/9/08 4:27:22 PM

225

Concentration without Congestion

Map 7.5

Bogotá’s TransMilenio has helped to integrate the poor
TransMilenio
routes

Minutes spent during rush hour within transport system
80

Feeder routes
70

Average minutes saved,
weighted by number of
passengers

60
50

18
15
10

40

10

13

10

30

Poverty:

20

Low

10
0
1
Poorest

2

3

4

5

6
Richest

Neighborhood stratification
Before the TransMilenio
After the TransMilenio

High

Source: Yepes 2008.

from Seoul. Central to the success of this
integration were investments in connective infrastructure. The subway system was
extended, and a beltway was constructed,
easing traffic congestion.
During this period, 93 slum districts
covering an area of 427 square kilometers
were modernized, including the Wolgoksadong and Mok-dong slum areas.70 Dwellers
in the former benefited from successful in
situ upgrading; those in the latter were relocated as the government cleared the area
and replaced it with a modern apartment
complex. Squatters benefited from moving
subsidies of about $2,000 per person and
the right to purchase a new apartment at a
discount.71
Turkey has also transformed itself from a
predominantly rural society to a primarily
urban one over the past half-century. Since
becoming a member of the Organisation
for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) in 1961, Turkey’s urban share
increased from around one-third to twothirds,72 as GDP per capita more than tripled to about $6,600.73 Driving this increase
in density was the rapid growth of Turkey’s
cities, foremost among them, Istanbul.

WDR09_15_Ch07.indd 225

In 1960 Istanbul’s population was about
1.5 million, a modern-day Kansas City in
the United States. With a population more
than 10 million today, Istanbul is now one
of Europe’s largest cities, about the same
Map 7.6

Economic density in Seoul with good connections to other cities

Seoul
Ansan

Chongju
Taejon

Daegu

Ulsan

Chonju
Kwangju

Pusan
Changwon

Mokpo

Source: WDR 2009 team and World Bank Development Research Group, based on subnational GDP estimates
for 2005. See also Nordhaus 2006.

10/9/08 4:27:23 PM

226

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

size as Chicago.74 Much of this growth has
been accommodated on the Asian side of
the city, home to successive waves of rural
immigrants. It is now the origin of a daily
tidal wave of commuters who make their
way across the Bosporus to work on the
European side of the city.
Underpinning Turkey’s transformation
to an urban economy are the spatially blind
reforms that accompanied the creation of
the modern republic of Turkey. The Turkish
constitution of 1924 included the adaptation
of European laws to the needs of the new
republic, endorsing private property rights.
The reforms introduced under Mustafa
Kemal Ataturk unified the country’s education system, providing the backdrop for
better access to education over the last halfcentury. In 1960 the proportion of the adult
population more than 15 years old with no
schooling was 67 percent, and in 2000, 18.6
percent.75 And better health care services
helped increase life expectancy from 51 years
in 1960 to 71 years in 2005.76
The reforms of the 1920s helped to lay
the foundation for Istanbul’s rapid expansion, but the city has found itself grappling
with congestion. In response, the city has
improved its connective infrastructure, with
1973 marking the opening of the eight-lane
Bosporus Bridge connecting the European
and Asian parts of the city. This was followed,
in 1988, by the completion of the second Bosporus Bridge. In 1989 the first light metro rail
line opened between the areas of Aksaray and
Kartaltepe. Meanwhile, a second light metro
line opened in 2007, supplementing the 2005
construction of an 11-kilometer metrobus
line. More are in the pipeline.
With this prosperity has come division.
Much of Istanbul’s rapid growth over the
last several decades has occurred through
the growth of informal settlements, such
as Sultanbeyli, Sarigazi, and Pas¸aköy on
the Asian side. These settlements formed
as rural migrants took advantage of an
ancient legal precept, which survived the
Ataturk reforms: no matter who owns the
land, if people are able to get their houses
built overnight and are moved in by morning, they cannot be evicted without being
taken to court. Such settlements, called
gecekondu, house a large share of Istanbul’s

WDR09_15_Ch07.indd 226

population. Almost half of the city’s residents—some 5–6 million people—live
in dwellings that are or were gecekondu.
Although settlements such as Sultanbeyli
have integrated themselves into the city,
others like Pas¸aköy have not.77 Istanbul
still needs targeted programs to deal with
the divisions associated with the continuing existence of poorly serviced and underintegrated informal communities.78
China’s Pearl River Delta faces similar
challenges. The area consists of nine cities
and has a population roughly equal to that
of Spain, representing one of China’s most
advanced urban agglomerations. With an
urban share of almost 75 percent in 2006,
it is a three-dimensional area with the
triple challenge of building density, reducing distance, and overcoming divisions.
The divisions are manifest in “urban villages,” many of which would be known as
slums elsewhere. They lack access to basic
sanitation services and are subject to environmental degradation. The cities of the
Pearl River Delta area have been introducing spatially targeted policies to deal with
urban villages. Guangdong province, where
the area is located, began rebuilding urban
villages in June 2000. The city of Zhuhai,
for example, aims to rebuild 26 administrative villages. An incentive scheme allows
the village administration, residents, and
developers to share any land appreciation.
Rural-urban integration has been part
of post-1978 liberalization in China. Under
the township model, the urban core has
responsibility for the surrounding rural
hinterland. As the city grows and its area
of inf luence expands, the administrative borders of the township also expand.
Large cities promote the active inclusion
of their surrounding hinterland by financing investment in infrastructure and social
services in the small cities and rural areas
under their influence (see box 7.14).
Get regulations right. Shanghai, a metropolitan area with special status as a province,
has a population of 13 million registered
and 4 million permanent residents, spread
out over 6,300 square kilometers. The
urban share is almost 80 percent, with 18
urban districts and the Chongming rural
county. Urban land markets function well

10/9/08 4:27:25 PM

227

Concentration without Congestion

in allocating the urban land available under
the rural land conversion limits. Floor-area
ratios have adapted to changing market
needs and increased the space per person
from 3 to 12 square meters over the past 20
years. Land leases are a source of revenue.
Shanghai’s built-up area has expanded
from 300 to 500 square kilometers in the
past decade. Passengers on the metro have
increased tenfold, from 178,000 to 1.6 million over the past decade, but its share of all
trips is just 2.5 percent. Many of the 4 million transient workers in Shanghai live in old
urban villages, affordable because they are
not subject to regulations for density, height,
and public space. Given the difficulties in
converting rural land, these urban villages
are attractive to developers, but developing
them would likely make the housing conditions worse for transient workers.
Less encouraging is Mumbai. Between
the 1970s and 1990s, the city resisted the
influx of migrants by instituting land use
and building regulations that favored
incumbents and prevented efficient use of
land.79 The result has been an evenly spread
development, but with congested streets
and the proliferation of slums.
Integrate slums into cities, using all
three instruments—institutions, infrastructure, and incentives. Cities without
slums is not a realistic vision for developing countries, as recognized in the midterm
appraisal of India’s 10th Five-Year plan:
There has, over the years, been a paradigm shift
in government’s slum policy prescriptions.
Originally, a “slum free cities” policy was prescribed. However, looking at the social dimensions of the whole problem and the various
economic activities carried out by the slum
dwellers, this concept has given way to rehabilitation of slum dwellers. The rehabilitation
involves either relocation or in-situ development of the slum areas. In the initial years of
slum development, the focus was on provision
of infrastructure in slums through the National
Slum Development Program (NSDP) and now
there is renewed stress on provision of shelter
to urban slum dwellers through the Valmiki
Ambedkar Awas Yojana (VAMBAY).80

Identifying and implementing policies for managing slum formation is a
major concern for policy makers in most

WDR09_15_Ch07.indd 227

B OX 7 . 1 4

Rural-urban integration in Beijing, Guangzhou,
and Shanghai

Beijing, Guangzhou, and Shanghai—
all thriving areas—have plans to link
rural and urban areas: to provide
education and health services, invest
in infrastructure and transport networks, and construct townships.
• Social services. The governments
provide vocational training and
other services to support nonagricultural employment and help
farmers transition from agriculture
to nonagriculture. They also offer
incentives for firms that will train
people and recruit the trainees after
training. And they provide social
services such as medical insurance
and pensions to rural residents.
Beijing subsidized rural cooperative medical insurance. Shanghai
increased public spending on rural
social services, including education
and health to cover farmers (100
percent covered by a rural collective
medical insurance plan). Guangzhou
will establish a pension scheme to
cover all the local residents.
• Infrastructure investments. In 2005
Beijing built 304 kilometers of
roads and linked all administrative
villages. In Shanghai expressways
were extended from 200 kilo-

meters in 2003 to 550 kilometers
in 2005, and will be extended
again to 750 kilometers in 2010. In
Guangzhou the provision of roads,
electricity, and water to all rural
settlements with more than 100
residents was completed in 2007.
• Integrating surrounding areas.
The three cities have encouraged
traditional industries to move
from the central business district
(where rents are quite high) to the
periphery (using fiscal incentives)
and allow high value-added industry to move in to the core area. A
township construction program
was launched to have a city system
centered on an inner city of 10
million inhabitants, surrounded
by secondary cities, central towns,
and villages. In 2003 Guangzhou
initiated the building of 10 central
towns financed by the city government. Shanghai has begun implementing the “1966 plan,” which by
2020 aims to have one main city,
nine secondary cities (traditional
historical centers), 60 new townships, and 600 central villages with
1,500–3,000 residents each.
Source: WDR 2009 team.

developing countries. But there is little consensus on the choice of policies required to
improve living conditions and livelihoods
of slum dwellers, while not compromising
the economic potential of metropolitan
areas. Two questions have to be answered.
When should slums be improved? And
what should be done to develop slums? This
Report proposes that the right time to systematically address the problem of slums is
when the institutional and infrastructure
requirements are in place. And the correct
approach is integration of slums into the
broader urban economy.
If the problem is crime and squalor, the
better strategy would be to upgrade the
neighborhood. But if the problem is spatial inefficiency, steps to improve land use
efficiency and compensate slum dwellers

10/9/08 10:40:15 PM

228

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

for disruptions to their livelihoods probably
should take precedence. Interventions to
improve living conditions in slums include
prevention measures, such as sites and services programs and remedial schemes (with
slum upgrading being the most common),
packages of basic services, paving, shelter, and
social integration. The Kampong Improvement Program in Indonesia is probably the
oldest, largest, and best-known urban-upgrading initiative in the world. It combines
low investment costs of $23 to $118 per person, benefits 15 million people, and uses a
participatory approach. The Orangi Project
in Pakistan and the Accra District Rehabilitation Project in Ghana are also promising (see table 7.2). But the experiences all
show that spatially focused interventions for
Table 7.2

improving slums are unlikely to be enough
for social integration, unless accompanied by
infrastructure, institutions, and complementary reform (see box 7.15).
Land use and zoning policies have often
excluded the poor from being physically
integrated into dynamic labor markets,
while deficient transport infrastructure lowers the possibility of connecting distant residents to urban jobs. South African zoning
policies under apartheid segregated white
and black people in cities. City structure
can exacerbate social divisions and hinder
efforts to reduce inequality and discrimination. The abolition of apartheid was not
enough to reduce the disparities. To offset
spatial income inequalities, local governments can subsidize transport costs of poor

Interventions to integrate the urban poor

Country (city)

Focus and objectives

Key features and lessons

Tunisia (National) Agence
de Rehabilitation et de
Renovation Urbaine

Tenure security. Regularizes tenure, provides
infrastructure, house improvement support, plots for
displaced households.

Triggered dynamic process of housing improvement; helped
explain low proportion of urban population in slums.

Brazil (Goiania) The Goiania
Federation for Tenants and
Posseiros

Tenure security. Public land occupied and tenure secured
by appealing to rights of citizens to occupy unused and
untitled land.

Covers 100,000 former tenants. Local grassroots organization
successfully supported efforts to get tenure security and
access to infrastructure and services.

Peru (Ilo) Municipal
Government

Land provision. Makes serviced plots available for
construction by low-income households.

6,000 lots serviced for housing by 2005. Despite a fivefold
increase in local population in 1960–2000, no pressure for
land invasions.

Argentina (Buenos Aires,
San Fernando, and San
Jorge) IIED-America Latina

Land provision. Serviced land donated to facilitate
resettlement and density reduction; plots allocated in
community-managed lottery.

Program is the result of a series of actions and initiatives
over the past 20 years, supported by an Argentine NGO that
lobbies provincial and municipal authorities.

Namibia (Windhoek)
Shack Dwellers Federation
of Namibia and City
Government

Flexible zoning laws. Group purchases and leases of land
with communal services; plot sizes below official national
minimum.

Demonstrates how constraints in the form of urban land
use standards and regulations can be overcome to make
serviced sites more affordable to low-income households.

Malawi (Lilongwe, Blantyre,
Mzuzu) Malawi Homeless
People’s Federation

Land provision; flexible regulation. Lobbied government
for land; demonstrated capacity of members to build good
quality housing at low cost. Changing official standards
important for cost.

Since 2003, approximately 760 plots for housing have been
provided and housing construction loans made available to
savings groups; slum accommodation containment and land
use improvement.

Pakistan (Orangi) Research
and Training Institute

Amenities provision. Community development of drainage
and sewerage systems, financed by local communities
and government.

96,994 households in Orangi and 300 locations in Pakistan.
All costs can be covered by eliminating contractors and
modifying engineering standards.

15 countries (South Asia,
East Asia, and Africa) Slum
Dwellers International

Amenities provision. National federations formed by slum
dwellers; initiatives to build and improve homes and basic
services.

Savings groups (mostly women) and their collective
management of money allow groups to increase capacity
for cooperative action; negotiation of partnerships with
governments.

Thailand (National)
Community Organizations
Development Institute

Amenities provision. Infrastructure subsidies and housing
loans to community organizations formed by low-income
slum households.

495 projects in 957 communities covering 52,776 households.
Activities identified by each community organization in
partnership with local actors; funding sources include
community contributions.

Nicaragua (National) Local
Development Program
(PRODEL)

Amenities provision. Cofinance small infrastructure
projects (water, sanitation, drainage); house improvement
and microenterprise loans and support.

484 projects benefiting some 60,000 households. Funds
provided to local governments, NGOs, community
organizations, and households.

Source: Sattherthwaite 2008, for this Report.
Note: IIED = International Institute for Environment and Development; NGO = nongovernmental organization.

WDR09_15_Ch07.indd 228

10/9/08 4:27:26 PM

229

Concentration without Congestion

children, provide private-school vouchers,
and increase public-school spending.81

B OX 7 . 1 5

Evidence from policy experience compiled by UN-HABITAT and the Cities
Alliance shows that successful initiatives share several attributes. Among
them, institutional strengthening and
coordination across government levels seem to be the most important.
Stronger institutions. Countries
that have been successful in integrating slums into their cities have
strengthened their institutions and
carried out complementary reforms,
which include a broader urban poverty reduction agenda (Indonesia,
Islamic Republic of Iran, Mexico, South
Africa, and Turkey). Some have implemented policies to integrate the urban
poor into the legal and social fabric
of cities (Brazil, Chile, and Colombia),
others have carried out reforms in land
and housing provision (India).
Coordination across government levels and with private
agents. Countries that performed
well also made an effort to coordinate among central, regional, and
local authorities and the private
sector (Chile, Egypt, Sri Lanka, Thailand, and Tunisia). But cities and
countries that were successful in
the delivery of basic services and
housing improvements had clear

A strategy for inclusive urbanization
The Tinbergen principle proposes that one
policy instrument is needed to address each
policy objective.82 Applying the principle to
the policy issues addressed in this Report
implies that as many integration instruments are needed as there are dimensions
to a problem. As the integration challenges
increase with the stage of urbanization, the
number of policy instruments required
increases as well. Fortunately for developing nations, the capacity of markets and
governments grows as they urbanize. But
these policies must be introduced in the
right sequence.
The foundations for an inclusive urbanization have to be instituted early in the
development process. To do this, governments must be selective. This chapter suggest how they can prioritize and sequence:

•

•

In areas of incipient urbanization, the
objective should be to facilitate a natural rural-urban transformation. The core
policy instruments are spatially blind
institutions that facilitate density in some
locations. These instruments include
secure land tenure and property rights,
basic and social services, and macroeconomic policies that do not favor one
productive activity (large industry) over
another (small agriculture). Policy makers should aim for neutrality between
rural and urban areas.
In areas of intermediate urbanization,
the rapid growth of some cities creates congestion. In addition to spatially
blind policies to facilitate density, connective policies to tackle congestion
and economic distance become necessary. They include investments in
transport infrastructure (to enhance
connectivity both within and between
cities) and encouragement of socially
efficient location decisions by fi rms.

WDR09_15_Ch07.indd 229

Slum upgrading and prevention: what works?

•

performance monitoring mechanisms that require the involvement of all levels of government.
Cambodia, China, and Vietnam,
for example, have strict upward
accountability regarding municipal
implementation on infrastructure.
Brazil and Indonesia, on the other
hand, have bottom-up performance monitoring, which enhances
citizen participation in planning
and decision making. b Coordination
across government levels and with
the private sector is also critical
for successful scaling up of slum
upgrading projects. One example
is Indonesia’s Kampong Improvement Program, and there are others (for example, Brazil, Colombia,
Mexico, South Africa, Thailand, and
Tunisia) whose programs began on
a modest scale, and were successfully scaled up to the national level
because of the involvement of all
levels of the government and the
private sector.
Based on a contribution by Eduardo
López Moreno, chief, Global Urban
Observatory, UN-HABITAT.
a. Garau 2008.
b. Bazoglu 2008.

Efficiency should be the watchword of
policy makers.
In areas with advanced urbanization,
divisions within cities caused by formal
settlements and slums and by grime and
crime add to the challenges of density
and distance. In addition to spatially
blind and spatially connective policies,
spatially focused policies for addressing intracity divisions are necessary to
target the difficulties of slums, crime,
and the environment—and to improve
livability.

10/9/08 4:27:26 PM

CHAPTER 8

Unity, Not Uniformity
Effective approaches to territorial development

G

lobalization and liberalization
may rearrange production within
countries, leaving people concentrated in places no longer favored by markets. In Brazil, China, India, and the Russian
Federation, changes in both markets and
policies over the last century have altered the
fortunes of places. Geographic differences
in economic activities encourage migration
from lagging areas, concentrating people—
including the poor—in leading areas. But
geographic unevenness in living standards,
by creating or deepening divisions within
countries, can also lead to conflict, slowing
social and economic development.
Building on the findings and analysis in
earlier chapters, this chapter discusses the
policy responses to widening or persistent
differences in living standards between
areas of a country that markets favor with
greater economic mass and those that they
do not. As in the rest of this report, the term
“area” is synonymous with a subnational
region or territory, so this chapter deals with
the “regional development” (also referred
to as the “territorial development”) debate.
Logic and experience indicate that policy
makers should calibrate their responses to
the severity of the challenge.

•

230

WDR09_16_Ch08.indd 230

In countries where labor and capital
are mobile, economic distance between
lagging and leading areas should be
addressed mainly with spatially blind
or universal policies, for which the term
“institutions” is used as shorthand.
These policies should make it easier for
people to move toward opportunity.

•

•

When lagging areas have few people and
a small share of the country’s poor, measures to enhance migration should be the
mainstay of development policy.
In countries where lagging areas have
large numbers of the poor, but few
impediments to their mobility, institutions that promote mobility should
be augmented by spatially connective infrastructure. Some countries
have high population densities in lagging areas—and large numbers of the
poor—but few cultural, linguistic, or
political impediments to labor and capital flows. Investments in infrastructure
that increase the flow of goods, people,
and information would aid economic
concentration and spatial convergence
in living standards.
In countries fragmented by linguistic,
political, religious, or ethnic divisions,
spatially targeted interventions may be
needed. When lagging areas face the triple
challenge of long distances to economic
opportunities in leading areas, large
population densities, and large numbers
of poor people, as well as domestic divisions that limit the movement of labor
and capital, institutions and infrastructure investments could be supplemented
by targeted incentives to encourage economic production in lagging areas. But
these incentives should not run counter to the integration objectives pursued
through institutions that bring people
together and infrastructure that connects
lagging and leading areas of a nation.

10/8/08 3:14:13 PM

231

Unity, Not Uniformity

Institutions, infrastructure, and incentives—these are the three parts of a successful policy approach to domestic integration.
In deciding among the integration options,
governments have to consider the fiscal and
opportunity costs of these instruments. This
chapter provides an organizing frame for
governments to think through these options
and find the best combination of policies.
A new approach. Policy discussions about
how to improve welfare in lagging areas
often begin with a focus on lagging areas—
and an emphasis on targeted interventions
or policy “incentives” to move production
to these places. Instead, territorial development policies should integrate lagging with
leading areas, and the discussion of spatially
targeted incentives should come last—after
considering spatially blind policies such as
national revenue-sharing and social expenditure arrangements and spatially connecting initiatives, such as transport and
communication systems. The experience of
developed and developing countries shows
that without these supporting institutions
and infrastructure, incentives have been
unsuccessful and expensive.

B OX 8.1

People seek opportunities
Throughout history, people have moved
from places with harsh geography to those
offering a more pleasant climate and better

Are the policy messages of this Report “anti-decentralization”? No.

Spatially blind institutions are the bedrock of economic integration policies
seeking spatial efficiency and equity.
Regardless of where people live, they
should have affordable access to basic
services such as primary health care,
education, sanitation, and security. How
these services are delivered depends on
country circumstances.
Decentralization in many countries has
made subnational governments more
responsible for improving local welfare
outcomes. In Vietnam subnational governments were responsible for almost 50
percent of public spending in 2002, up
from about 25 percent in 1992. In China
the ratio climbed from 67 to 72 percent
between 1990 and 2004.a In the Philippines the ratio was about 25 percent in
2002, up from 11 percent in 1990.
Problems arise when decentralization
gets in the way of delivering spatially
blind policies. Rather than allocating
resources to social services, subnational

WDR09_16_Ch08.indd 231

In many countries, the decentralization
of administrative and fiscal responsibilities has increased the role of subnational
governments in the design and delivery of
policies. Resources allocated to subnational
governments should come with agreements
to ensure that local initiatives improve
national welfare along with local welfare
(see box 8.1).
In addressing these policy issues, the
chapter provides an answer to a question
of considerable concern to policy makers:
Should countries invest in people or in
places? The answer is to invest in activities that produce the highest economic and
social returns nationally. In leading areas,
emphasize investment in places—durable
investments that increase national economic growth. In lagging areas, emphasize
investment in people—portable investments that stimulate mobility and accelerate poverty reduction.

policy makers may be inclined to tilt
expenditures toward politically popular
activities. In a highly decentralized country such as Brazil, progress on national
priorities of eliminating illiteracy and
universalizing primary education is monitored using expenditure allocations, with
the constitution determining that 25
percent of state and municipal revenues
from taxes and transfers be earmarked
to finance primary education. But closer
inspection shows that around 10 percent
of municipalities spend less than the constitutionally recommended amounts.b
Large and visible investments are politically expedient signals to voters that their
representatives are hard at work. So how
can decentralization be consistent with
the spatially integrative policies discussed
here?

on public services) but should move as
soon as feasible to outcomes (improvements in the national Millennium
Development Indicators).
• Infrastructure—to maximize synergies
from infrastructure investments and
to regulate interstate commerce efficiently, design and planning decisions
should be jointly made by subnational
governments affected by these investments and regulations.
• Incentives—while subnational governments may be well suited to assess
local economic potential, the decision
of where to target incentives should
lie with a national authority that can
prioritize resources to accelerate overall
growth. How these programs are implemented can be decided locally.

• Institutions—resource allocations to
subnational governments could be
based initially on inputs (expenditures

Source: WDR 2009 team.
a. National Bureau of Statistics, China, 2005.
b. Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatística (IBGE) 2004.

10/8/08 3:14:15 PM

232

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Map 8.1

The poverty rate is high in China’s western interior, but most poor people live closer to economic density in the East

Poverty rate:
proportion of poor (%)

Poverty density

< 17.5
17.6–35.9
36.0–51.6
51.7–70.3
70.4–81.1

Each dot represents
50,000 poor persons

Source: WDR 2009 team.
Note: Poverty rates and counts are estimated for a $2/day poverty line in 2002.

economic opportunities. The concentration
of people in areas with hospitable natural
environments attracted economic activities
to these places, helping many to prosper even
when the initial conditions that made these
settlements economically attractive became
less important. Mobility was not just for the
well-off. Poor people also moved to economically dense areas—to seek better lives.
Consider the current distribution of
poor people in China (see map 8.1). The
percentage of people living below $2 a day is
high in the country’s lagging western areas.
But in absolute terms, many more poor
people live in the dynamic coastal southeastern areas—the leaders in China’s rapid
integration with the global economy. Even
before this integration happened, people
did not concentrate in places with inhospitable geography, such as the Qinghai-Tibet
Plateau with an elevation of 4,000 meters
above sea level, or the highlands of the central region with elevations of 2,000 meters.
The flat lands and warmer climates along
the coast provided better conditions for
farming and trade.
Maps of many countries would also
show that the poverty mass—the numbers
of poor people—and economic mass coincide. Java, the economically leading area in
Indonesia, is also the island in the archipelago where most poor people live. The
islands of Java and Bali are home to 21 million poor people, about 58 percent of the

WDR09_16_Ch08.indd 232

country’s poor. The numbers on the other
islands are much lower: 1.3 million in Kalimantan, 2.6 million in Sulawesi, 2.7 million
in Nusa Tenggara, and 1 million in Papua.
Chapter 2 showed that Honduras and Vietnam have similar (overlapping) geographic
distributions of economic production and
poor people.
Using a sharper geographic resolution, a
similar distribution of the population can be
discerned within lagging areas. The northeast of Brazil is the country’s poorest area.
Per capita incomes in the southeast were
2.9 times that of the northeast in 1939, and
2.8 times in 1992. Eight of the 10 poorest
states are in the northeast, two in the north.1
The poverty rate is clearly high in the rural
northeast and Amazon areas (see map 8.2).
But even in the northeast, the mass and
concentration of poverty—the number of
poor people per square kilometer—is much
higher in urbanized agglomerations near the
coast, from the lagging northeast all the way
to the dynamic regions of Rio de Janeiro and
São Paulo in the southeast.2
In some countries the market forces
prompting factor mobility are not quite as
strong. Their economic mass and poverty
mass do not coincide nearly as much as in
countries such as China and Honduras.
Consider India, where more than 400 million people live in “lagging states” in the
north-central part of the country, which
includes—using the country’s poverty

10/8/08 3:14:15 PM

233

Unity, Not Uniformity

Map 8.2

The poverty rate is high in Brazil’s Northeast and Amazon areas, but the poor are massed in areas along the coast

Poverty rate:
proportion of poor (%)
< 12
12–25
25–35
35–45
>45

Poverty density
Each dot represents
5,000 poor persons

Source: State-level poverty rates computed by Phillippe G. Leite, based on the Brazil Household Budget Survey (Pesquisa de Orcamentos Familiares) 2002–03 (see World Bank
2007c).

line—60 percent of the nation’s poor (see
map 8.3).3 Labor mobility from these areas
has been limited due to ethnolinguistic and
class-based divisions, perhaps inclining
people to stay in their own “enclaves.”
People are in these lagging areas for a
reason. With rich soils and good internal
connections, the fertile Indo-Gangetic
plain attracted people. These areas were
historically among India’s most dynamic
locations when the country accounted for
a quarter of the world’s gross domestic
product (GDP), between 1600 and 1700.4
But historical “accidents,” such as making
landlords responsible for paying land taxes
to the British crown in these areas, eroded
agricultural productivity and infrastructure investments. 5 India is now reintegrating into the world economy, resulting
in economic dynamism in its coastal and
metropolitan areas. These areas offer good
access to intermediate inputs and domestic and international markets, provide reliable and high-quality local public services,
and have a business environment conducive to entrepreneurship. About half of
manufacturing investments in 2005 were
concentrated in only 10 of the country’s
more than 3,000 cities, the ones offering

WDR09_16_Ch08.indd 233

better access to domestic and international
markets.6
Should today’s policy makers try to
correct historical accidents by reviving
investments in lagging areas and helping
them regain their past glory? Or should
they accelerate India’s integration with the
global economy and help people in lagging
areas take advantage of new opportunities
in places with greater economic density?
India’s national policy discussion in
the mid-1970s focused on promoting spatially balanced growth to revive the lagging
areas with subsidized fi nance, investment
subsidies, industrial infrastructure, and
preferential industrial licensing. India’s latest five-year plan recognizes the failures of
industrial licensing and its inconsistency
with growth. The discussion today is more
about integration and the shift toward
promoting better health and education in
lagging areas, along with strategic interregional infrastructure investments that
connect the remote northeast with markets
in the rest of the country.7 Similar regional
development policies have been implemented in other countries with internal
divisions along religious or ethnic lines,
such as Nigeria and Ethiopia.

10/8/08 3:14:18 PM

234

Map 8.3

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Both the poverty rate and poverty mass are high in some of India’s lagging states

Poverty rate:
proportion of poor (%)
6.4–9.7
9.8–16.7
16.8–24.8
24.9–35.4
35.5–46.6
No data

Poverty density
Each dot represents
50,000 poor persons

Source: Based on poverty estimates for 2004–05 from the Planning Commission, Government of India.
Note: State-level poverty rates and counts are based on the sum of the number of urban poor and rural poor in 2004–05, which are calculated using different poverty lines.

Policies aimed at reducing such divisions have reinforced a natural tendency of
people to seek places that offer better economic opportunities. Take the well-studied
German unification, a merger of two economies with few exchanges of goods and
factors that propelled people from the east
to the west. The opportunity arose in the
summer of 1989, when people could leave
East Germany through Hungary. And with
the fall of the Berlin wall on November 9,
1989, direct migration from East to West
Germany became possible. With the border open, 800,000 people left the east for
the west in 1989 and 1990, 5 percent of the
eastern population (see box 8.2).8 Clearly,
the German unification started a move to
density. It suggests that reducing distance
to economic density improves people’s welfare, and labor mobility is the strongest
natural mechanism for this.

Countries seek unity
Many countries have spatial differences in
production and poverty, mostly because
of economic distance between lagging and

WDR09_16_Ch08.indd 234

leading areas, and also because of divisions
from political, ethnic, religious, and linguistic differences. And all countries seek unity,
by lowering the barriers of internal divisions.
A review of national constitutions from 20
developing countries shows that promoting
unity—reducing divisions—is an important
political objective (see box 8.2). In Nigeria
an important article of unity is that people
will not be discriminated by sex, religion,
place of birth, ethnic, or linguistic association. In India Article 16 of the constitution
states that “no citizen shall, on grounds
only of religion, race, caste, sex, descent,
place of birth, residence or any of them, be
ineligible for, or discriminated against in
respect of, any employment or office under
the State.” For the most part, constitutions
do not make places paramount—they focus
instead on the welfare and unity of people
(see box 8.3).
Unity does not mean uniformity. India’s
national motto, for example, is “unity in
diversity.” But in many countries, policy
makers have viewed uniformity as the main
vehicle for unity. The European Union (EU)

10/9/08 4:29:38 PM

B OX 8.2

The German integration: convergence and concentration with mobile labor

With the fall of the Berlin wall in 1989,
direct migration from East to West Germany became possible. Opening the border led 400,000 people to leave the east to
the west in 1989 and again in 1990, about 5
percent of the eastern population (see the
left figure). In later years, incomes started
to converge and the process slowed. In
2001 a recession in Germany again led
about 100,000 people to leave the east for
the west. By 2007 more than 1.7 million
people had left the east (of about 17 million
at the time of the fall of the Berlin wall).
Migration produced one predictable
outcome: incomes became more equal
between the two areas (see the right figure). While the cross-country distribution
of income in 1992 was clearly bimodal,
with the counties in the east forming the
lower peak, this was smoothed by 2005.
Although the counties from the east are
still located at the left of the distribution,
their economic distance to western counties has shortened.
Convergence in incomes has also produced more surprising outcomes. Almost
all counties with more young women than
men are in the economically dynamic
areas of Germany, which also have better

Migration from East to West Germany was
possible after the fall of the Berlin wall
Net migration from East to West Germany,
1991–2005

Convergence of income across German
counties was noticeable between 1992
and 2005
Density

Thousands of people
180

1.2

160

1.0

2005

140
0.8

120

0.6

100
80

1992

0.4

60

0.2

40

0
1.5

20
0
1991 1993 1995 1997 1999 2001 2003 2005
Year

2.0

2.5

3.0

3.5

4.0

4.5

Log, € (thousands)
Source: Holzmann, Priebe, and Vollmer 2008.

Source: Federal Statistical Office Germany 2007.

institutions of higher learning (see the map
below). In 2004, in the 18–29 age-group,
there were only 90 women for every 100
men in East Germany (including Berlin).
Why did East German women move to
the economically dynamic areas, while
men stay in the lagging areas? There are
two explanations. First, women are on
average more successful in school and
higher education, which makes it easier

for them to study or to find a job in the
economically more dynamic parts of
Germany. Second, it is much harder for
women to find an attractive job locally
in the lagging areas than it is for men,
because these areas are typically dominated by traditionally male jobs in agriculture, manufacturing, and construction.
Sources: WDR 2009 team, based on Kroehnert and Vollmer 2008.

Women moved to the west seeking economic opportunity: in 2003, there were fewer women per 100 men
in the eastern part of the country (left), and higher taxpayer incomes in the west (right)

Number of women,
ages 18–29, per 100 men
75–85
86–95
96–100
101–105
106–115
116–126
Source: Kroehnert, Medicus, and Kinglolz 2006.

GERMANY

Average income
of taxpayers
Top 20%

Bottom 20%
Source: Federal Statistics Office of Germany.

235

WDR09_16_Ch08.indd 235

10/8/08 3:14:22 PM

236

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

B OX 8.3

Constitutions call for unity, not uniformity

National constitutions reflect the evolution of political discourse in most countries and define interactions between
the state and its citizens. A review of
constitutions from 20 developing countriesa finds that all emphasize national
unity as an important national objective.
Uniformity in economic outcomes across
areas is mentioned only in one—Brazil’s
constitution. Universal access to primary
education and basic health care are constitutional mandates in most countries.
Excerpts from the constitutional articles of three African countries highlight
the importance that societies place on
national unity and integration:
Nigeria: “The motto of the Federal
Republic of Nigeria shall be Unity and
Faith, Peace and Progress.” Article 15
(2)—“Accordingly, national integration
shall be actively encouraged, whilst
discrimination on the grounds of place
of birth, sex, religion, status, ethnic or
linguistic association or ties shall be pro-

hibited.” Article 15 (3)—“For the purpose
of promoting national integration, it shall
be the duty of the State to: (a) provide
adequate facilities for and encourage free
mobility of people, goods and services
throughout the Federation; (b) secure
full residence rights for every citizen in all
parts of the Federation.”
Côte d’Ivoire: Article 30—“The Republic
of Côte d’Ivoire shall be one and indivisible,
secular, democratic and social. The Republic shall ensure equality before the law to all
without distinction as to origin, race, sex or
religion. It shall respect all beliefs.” Its principle shall be: “Government of the people,
by the people and for the people.”
Uganda: Article 3—“(i) All organs of the
State and people of Uganda shall work
towards the promotion of national unity,
peace and stability. (ii) Every effort shall
be made to integrate all the peoples of
Uganda while at the same time recognizing the existence of their ethnic, religious,
ideological, political and cultural diversity.”

policies to integrate new member states call
for “cohesion.” But the objective of cohesion—or unity—is pursued through policies for convergence. Convergence targets
include eliminating territorial disparities in
economic development (economic cohesion)
and in access to labor and income (social
cohesion). This “cohesion” is matched by the
EU regional policy, which allocates about 60
percent of its funding to support areas of low
development (less than 75 percent of the EU
average GDP per capita).9
Accounting for 35 percent of total spending of the EU, the EU cohesion policy is translated into practice through structural funds
(90 percent of spending) and the cohesion
fund (10 percent). The Agenda 2000 package
comes with a price tag of €236 billion, with
€195 billion for structural funds; €18 billion
for the cohesion funds for Greece, Ireland,
Portugal, and Spain; and €22 billion for new
member states, in view of their 2004 accession.10 Agenda 2000’s objectives include the
development and structural adjustment of
lagging areas, the development of border
areas and areas in industrial decline, and the
adaptation and modernization of education

WDR09_16_Ch08.indd 236

Brazil’s constitution calls for regionally
balanced economic development, setting
out guidelines to promote capital flows
to lagging areas. The translation of these
guidelines into practice has not produced
the expected economic gains. And the
programs have been costly. The Constitution Funds—a prominent regional economic development program—provided
subsidized credit worth more than $10
billion between 1990 and 2002 to help
firms locate in lagging areas. The ineffectiveness of these interventions is evaluated elsewhere in this chapter.
Source: WDR 2009 team; based on a review of
constitutions from 20 developing countries.
a. The countries are Argentina, Bolivia,
Brazil, Colombia, and Mexico (LAC); Côte
d’Ivoire, Ghana, Nigeria, and Uganda (AFR);
Bangladesh, India, Nepal, and Pakistan
(SAR); Kazakhstan, Poland, and the Russian
Federation (ECA); China, Indonesia, and the
Philippines (EAP); and the Arab Republic of
Egypt (MENA).

and training systems.11 The cohesion policy
aims to improve economic performance of
specific areas and help them catch up with
the rest of the union.
Resource allocations of this scale to support integration may reflect the redistribution
preferences of member states (particularly the
ones whose residents are footing the bill), but
do these policies stimulate overall growth?
Are they paying for the “wrong” type of
assets? Academic research shows that they are
not well suited to maximizing aggregate economic growth because they try to promote
spatial evenness and not agglomeration. Nor
are they especially well suited to promoting
catch-up by lagging areas. Traditional cohesion policies that provide “hard” infrastructure and assistance to firms are unlikely
to increase the competitiveness of lagging
areas.12 Moving away from these programs to
support education programs and institutional
development could do much more.
Trying to use the same instrument to
pursue dual challenges of internal and
external convergence is likely to make the
policy lose focus. The EU’s fourth report
on economic and social cohesion provides

10/8/08 3:14:24 PM

237

Unity, Not Uniformity

a candid assessment of convergence across
its regions and within individual countries.13 Between 1995 and 2004, there was
a tendency of aggregate convergence in the
EU, with new member states with lower
GDP per capita growing faster than the
EU-27 average. But at a more disaggregated Nomenclature of Territorial Units for
Statistics (NUTS) 2 regional level—subnational areas larger than administrative
units in most countries—the results show
little effectiveness of directed interventions in improving economic performance
of lagging areas. For the better-off EU-15,
the number of people in lagging regions
has remained almost unchanged at 32 million, around 8 percent of the total. When
the new member states are considered,
there has been international convergence in

B OX 8.4

An instrument per objective: Ireland used EU funds for international convergence

Between 1977 and 2000, Ireland’s GDP
per capita grew from 72 percent of the EU
average to 116 percent. What was behind
Ireland’s success?
Since joining the European Union in
1973, Ireland received approximately
€17 billion in EU Structural and Cohesion
Funds through the end of 2003. In the first
two rounds of EU funding, the entire country was classified as an Objective One area.
Between 1993 and 2003 cohesion funds
supported 120 infrastructure projects at
the cost of about €2 billion.a The choice of
projects was based on a national development plan, which focused on investments
in economic infrastructure that stimulated
long-term national economic growth.
These included investments in leading
areas and in connecting leading and lagging areas, such as the M50 (Dublin Ring
Road), M1 (Dublin-Belfast), and improvements in the N4 (Dublin-Sligo), N7 (DublinLimerick), and N11 (Dublin-Rosslare).
The Irish also invested in education,
training, and lifelong learning in all of
Ireland to provide investors with a good
business environment countrywide. With
its skilled labor force and good logistics,
Ireland has become a popular destination
for American firms wishing to reach European markets. In 2004 Irish-based U.S.
firms exported $55 billion worth of goods
and services, mostly destined for Europe.
Ireland’s rapid convergence toward the
incomes of Europe’s leaders was accompa-

WDR09_16_Ch08.indd 237

per capita incomes. But the concentration
of economic production within member
states—new and old—has been increasing, led by market forces driving faster economic growth in their leading areas. Indeed
per capita incomes in several areas in some
new member states—Bratislavský kraj in
the Slovak Republic, Közép-Magyarország
in Hungary, Mazoweickie in Poland, and
Zahodna Slovenija in Slovenia—have risen
to more than 75 percent of the EU average.
Ireland took a different approach for
using EU funds. Rather than try to use the
EU funds to achieve both international
catch-up and to disperse economic production domestically, Ireland focused on one
objective—national economic growth. From
being one of Europe’s poorest countries, it is
now one of the richest (see box 8.4). Between

nied by a rising spatial concentration of economic activity. Compared with the other
cohesion countries—Greece, Portugal, and
Spain—Ireland’s economic concentration
rose much more (see the figure below). But
its per capita income grew much faster too.
In 1977 Greece, Ireland, and Spain had per
capita incomes of about $9,000; Portugal’s
was about $6,000. By 2002 Portugal had an
income of $11,000, and Greece and Spain
close to $15,000. Ireland’s per capita income
had risen to $27,500.

Today, almost all regions in the new
member nations in Eastern Europe qualify for EU financial support. They should
consider the Irish example of using the
funds for international convergence and
not—until later stages—for spatially
balanced economic growth within their
borders.
Sources: Dall’Erba 2003, WDR 2009 team.
a. Ireland’s National Development Plan
(NDP) 2000–06.

As Ireland’s income rapidly grew, economic concentration increased within the country
Natural log of variance
17.0

Ireland

16.5
16.0
Spain

15.5
15.0

Portugal

14.5
14.0
13.5

Greece

13.0
12.5
12.0
1977

1979

1981

1983

1985

1987

1989
Year

1991

1993

1995

1997

1999

2001

Sources: Dall’Erba 2003; WDR 2009 team.

10/8/08 3:14:24 PM

238

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

1991 and 1998 Ireland was just one region for
the purposes of Objective One support from
the EU.14 When the country grew past the
75 percent threshold, in July 1999, Ireland
created two regional “assemblies”—BorderMidland-Western, and the Southern and
Eastern. But spatial concentration of economic production has increased in Ireland
relative to Greece, Portugal, and Spain, the
other three cohesion countries.15

A policy framework for integrating
lagging and leading areas
People seek opportunity, and countries
seek unity. Policies that integrate lagging
and leading areas can help with both. This
section outlines a framework to guide
policy making. It proposes a calibrated
combination of institutions, infrastructure, and incentives to address the domestic challenges posed by density, distance,
and division. Used well, a combination of
these measures can help countries reap the
economic benefits from increasing concentration of economic activity, as well as
the social, political, and economic payoffs
associated with converging living standards
between lagging and leading areas.
Policy makers, often viewing economic
concentration as inconsistent with spatial
equity in living standards, have sought to
reduce concentration through spatially
targeted interventions. Many governments
fight market forces that promote the concentration of people in economically dense
Figure 8.1 France has benefited from increasing concentration of economic production and
declining spatial disparities in disposable income
Coefficients of variation
GDP per capita
0.190

Income per capita
0.085
Per capita disposable income (right axis)

0.185

0.080

0.180

0.075

0.175
0.070
0.170
0.065

0.165

0.060

0.160

GDP per capita (left axis)
0.055

0.155
0.150

1982

1984

1986

1988

1990

1992
Years

Source: Martin 2005.

WDR09_16_Ch08.indd 238

1994

1996

1998

2000

2002

0.050

places. Indonesia’s transmigration program
tried to relocate people from densely populated Java to less densely populated areas of
Kalimantan, Papua, Sulawesi, and Sumatra.
At its peak between 1979 and 1984, 535,000
families or almost 2.5 million people were
relocated. The objective was to promote
“balanced demographic development” and
reduce poverty by providing land and new
economic opportunities for poor landless
settlers. But the program made almost no
dent in the population density of Java, nor
did the high cost of the program reduce
poverty much among the migrants.16
Relying solely on spatially targeted interventions is a common mistake. It is far better to rely on institutions that work less
noisily. In France the concentration of economic mass and convergence of disposable
incomes between leading and lagging areas
have been concurrent, producing a “scissors
effect” in the geographies of production and
disposable income (see figure 8.1).17 The
effect appears to be driven not by spatially
focused interventions but by spatially blind
or “universal” progressive income taxation,
social security, and unemployment benefits.
Although space is not explicitly considered
in such policies, their effects and outcomes
can vary considerably across locations.
As the base of economic integration, such
“institutions” capture the benefits of spatial
concentration of production and deliver
convergence in living standards.
Even in the EU as a whole, the rising
inequality of market incomes between 1985
and 1995 was partially offset by progressive
tax and transfer policies. Increases in the
income of skilled people were moderated
through higher taxes, and the unskilled were
aided with transfers.18 Similarly, the progressive tax structure in the United States
reduced disparities in disposable incomes
across states, while production became
more concentrated, although the extent has
varied greatly over time as government policies changed (see box 8.5).
The experience of the EU and the United
States in addressing spatial equity with
aspatial tax systems is instructive. Skeptics might counter that the coverage of
the tax system is low in developing countries and that weak tax administration and

10/8/08 3:14:25 PM

239

Unity, Not Uniformity

B OX 8.5

Taxation against spatial inequality? The U.S. federal income tax system

A progressive federal income tax in
the United States has reduced income
inequalities among people. An unintended effect has been to reduce income
inequalities across states, showing that a
spatially blind policy can be a sharp instrument for reducing spatial inequalities.
Data from the Internal Revenue Service
show how much the income tax reduced
spatial inequality. To see this, first, pretax
incomes of the top percentile of earners
in each state are divided by the U.S. personal income, as published by the Bureau
of Economic Analysis. Next, the same
income dispersion ratio is calculated with
post-tax incomes. Then, the percentage
decrease between the pretax and post-

tax income ratios for two groups of 10
states are calculated: one recording the
highest pretax incomes (Group 1), and
the other the lowest (Group 2).a The figure below shows the change in post-tax
income differences between the richest
and poorest states. Directly imputable
to taxation, it shows how the U.S. taxation system has helped to reduce income
inequalities across states.
Never had the tax rate been higher
than in 1918, at 77 percent to finance the
war. After World War I, tax rates declined.
Lowered to 24 percent in 1929, the tax
rate for top incomes rose again during
the Great Depression (–26 percent in
1940 versus –7 percent in 1930 for Group

1). When Congress introduced payroll
withholding and quarterly tax payments
during World War II, the progressive
tax system was reinforced. But these
inequality-reducing effects started fading
away between 1950 and 1970. A brief rise
in these effects during the late 1970s was
followed by a fall in the 1980s and 1990s.
Source: WDR 2009 team.
a. Although both groups belong to the richest 1 percent of their respective states, keep
in mind the sharp differences from one state
to another. In 1940, for instance, an income
of about $47,000 made a tax filer part of the
wealthiest 1 percent in Mississippi, but part
of the wealthiest 10 percent in the District of
Columbia.

Without an explicit spatial focus, U.S. federal income taxes reduce spatial disparities
Percentage decrease in inequality due to taxation
0
–5
–10
–15
The 10 richest
states converge
to the mean 3
times faster than
–25 the 10 poorest
ones.
–20

–30

Increasing tax rates
during Great
Depression

–35
Bridging the gap after WWII
–40

1920

1930

1940

1950

1960

1970

Government increases
taxes for the bottom group
1981
1990

2000

2003

Year
10 U.S. states with highest income levels before taxes (within top percentile)
10 U.S. states with lowest income levels before taxes (within top percentile)
Source: WDR 2009 team, based on analysis by Estelle Sommelier.

widespread informality in the economy will
reduce the potential benefits of progressive
taxes. But it is worth remembering that a
century ago, when its tax system was introduced, the United States exhibited many
of the attributes of a developing country
today. Its population was mainly rural,
with just 28 percent living in metropolitan
areas in 1910.19 Wages were $0.72 an hour in

WDR09_16_Ch08.indd 239

the automobile industry in 1925.20 The tax
coverage and revenues were low, with only
10 percent of the households filing an individual tax return in 1916; today the ratio is
93 percent.
Some evidence from developing countries points to the fact that income redistribution through a progressive tax
system is difficult, and that the targeting

10/8/08 3:14:25 PM

240

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

of expenditures by individual or household
income levels and the level of the average
tax rate are more important for the posttransfer income distribution. Thus a highyield proportional tax system may have a
larger equalizing impact than a low-yield
progressive tax system.21
Spatially blind tax and transfer policies
will form the bedrock of public policies to
integrate countries spatially and help them
benefit from concentration and convergence. But these policies may not be enough.
Depending on their conditions, nations need
a broader range of instruments for domestic
integration. The challenge of economic integration can be seen as reducing the distance
between people—especially the poor—and
economic opportunity. Misplaced population densities, and barriers to mobility of
workers and entrepreneurs between leading
and lagging areas posed by internal divisions, complicate the challenge.
In general, a policy framework for economic integration includes the following:

•

•

•

WDR09_16_Ch08.indd 240

Institutions (spatially blind policies). The
term is used here to categorize policies
that are not explicitly designed with spatial considerations, but that have effects
and outcomes that may vary across
locations. These include such national
policies as the income tax system, intergovernmental fiscal relations, and governance of land and housing markets,
as well as education, health care, basic
water and sanitation, and other government initiatives.
Infrastructure (spatially connective policies). The term is used here as shorthand
to include all investments that connect
places and provide basic business services, such as public transportation and
utilities. These include developing interregional highways and railroads to promote trade in goods—and improving
information and communication technologies to increase the flow of information and ideas.
Incentives (spatially focused policies).
The term is used here to include spatially
targeted measures to stimulate economic
growth in lagging areas. These include
investment subsidies, tax rebates, loca-

tion regulations, local infrastructure
development, and targeted investment
climate reforms, such as special regulations for export processing zones.
These instruments for integration—
institutions, infrastructure, and incentives—span the range between universal
and geographically targeted policies. Each
of the three categories can include taxes,
public spending, and regulations.
Adverse physical geography generally
increases economic distance, reducing
trade of goods and services and the flow
of labor, capital, and information, making
delivery of public services harder. In Papua
New Guinea, with the transport system
fragmented by a rugged mountainous terrain, the average travel time from a rural
community to the nearest road is two and
a half hours. and to the nearest government station is more than three hours. 22
In the more rugged parts of Peru, the
coverage of public infrastructure is low.23
Other such places include Chile’s Zonas
Extremas, western China, Upper Egypt,
the outer areas of Nepal, and northeastern Russia. Because of adverse conditions,
poverty rates can be high in these areas.
But for the same reasons, unless prevented
from leaving by government policies or
sociopolitical reasons, or enticed into staying by incentives, not many people live in
these areas.
Integration reduces the economic distance between lagging areas and more
dynamic places. The most successful initiatives, which balance economic efficiency
and political feasibility, are adapted to
country circumstances. The circumstances
that matter most are the population densities in lagging areas and the extent to
which domestic divisions weaken market
forces. Where few people live in lagging
areas, as in northeastern Russia, integration policies should be different from
those in places such as northeastern Brazil,
where lagging areas are densely populated.
Where lagging and leading areas share a
common language and customs, as in Brazil and China, integration policies have to
exert less effort than in areas where differences in language, ethnicity, or religion

10/8/08 3:14:25 PM

Unity, Not Uniformity

divide one part of a country from another,
as in India or Nigeria.
In Brazil the distance between the lagging northeast and the leading southeast
is coupled with high population densities
in the coastal areas of the northeast. But
many Nordestinos have found opportunities by moving to the dynamic southeast.
As many as 4 million residents of Greater
São Paulo are Nordestinos.24 This indicates
the high population density in the northeast and the strong market forces of labor
mobility, made possible by factors such as
a common language and a strong national
identity.
Recall the maps of India, where some
lagging areas have a high poverty mass and
high poverty rate (see map 8.3). Integrating
these areas is especially challenging when
subnational geographic groupings reflect
ethnic, linguistic, or social differences.25
The movement of people out of these areas
has been limited because of local preferences and discrimination against particular groups (see chapter 5). Market forces
of factor mobility have been weakened by
internal political and social divisions—witness the hostility that Bihari workers have
encountered in the more prosperous parts
of India. In such nations, the integration
challenge involves overcoming economic
distance, misplaced density, and domestic
division.
Using the spatial dimensions of distance, density, and division to characterize
conditions in a country, a suggestive taxonomy can be developed to help countries
tailor integration policies to their specific
economic geography. At least three types of
countries can be distinguished:

•
•
•

Type 1: countries with sparsely populated
lagging areas
Type 2: unified countries with densely
populated lagging areas
Type 3: divided countries with densely
populated lagging areas

This taxonomy can characterize lagging
areas in most countries, but two qualifications are necessary. First, lagging areas in
some countries may be sufficiently heterogeneous that it is difficult to neatly classify

WDR09_16_Ch08.indd 241

241

them into one of these types. In Thailand
the northeast is densely populated and distant from the economically dense capital
area, but the sparsely populated south is
home to its Muslim minority. In India the
lagging northeast is sparsely populated,
whereas lagging areas in central India have
almost two-thirds of India’s poor. Second, countries classified as Type 1 (with
sparsely populated lagging areas) can be
unified or internally divided. But the strategies for integration in these two types of
countries—unified countries with sparsely
populated lagging areas such as Russia, or
divided countries with sparsely populated
lagging areas such as the Philippines—will
not be different.

An instrument per dimension
Institutions to overcome distance. In
countries with sparsely populated lagging
areas, the integration challenge is mainly
one of reducing economic distance. Policies that are universal—spatially blind in
their design and national in their coverage—can shoulder much of the task of successful economic integration. Developing
countries in this category include Chile,
China, Ghana, Indonesia, Kenya, Mexico,
Mongolia, Kazakhstan, Russia, Sri Lanka,
Uganda, and Vietnam. The primary objective of these policies should be to encourage people migrate to places with economic
opportunities. For example, as Russia
moves further from plan to market, it will
have to offset a legacy of policies industrializing its vast territory. Even today, millions
of people are subsidized to live in “cold”
and isolated places in the northeast (see
map 8.4), where they cannot take advantage of new economic opportunities in the
dynamic areas of the west.26
Correcting land market distortions,
removing restrictions on mobility, and providing essential services such as basic education, health care, water, and sanitation
should be universal policy priorities. The
costs associated with land sales—including
fees, survey costs, and transfer fees—can
make land transactions prohibitively expensive. In Russia the fees for private surveying are equivalent to two years’ minimum
wages. These costs could slow migration by

10/8/08 3:14:26 PM

242

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Map 8.4 In the Russian Federation, population densities are highest in the economically vibrant and warmer west, but a communist legacy has left some
people in the cold interior

Population per km2
0–4.86
4.86–10.75
10.75–20.14
20.14–75.64
>75.64

RUSSIAN
FEDERATION

Degrees Celsius
0–-3
-3–-7
-7–-11
-11–-15
-15–-17
Seasonally frozen
Permafrost extent

Sources: Population density: Fay, Felkner, and Lall 2008; Ice Thickness: National Snow and Ice Data Center 2007.

reducing the ability of less wealthy people
to transact in land. 27 China’s household
registration system (the hukou system) has
been a barrier to rural-urban migration.
Not having an urban hukou in urban areas
means that migrants may not qualify for
public education or health benefits. This
can produce large interregional wage differences. Recent research indicates that
removing such mobility restrictions would
reallocate labor across areas, reduce wage
differences, and lower income inequality.28
But the benefits depend on the response
of the urban housing market to additional
demand from newcomers.
Some countries can have sparsely populated lagging areas and domestic divisions.
In Lao People’s Democratic Republic, ethnic
heterogeneity may make labor less mobile.
Vientiane, the leading area, has a relatively
low poverty rate, while the provinces in the
north and south have higher rates (see map
8.5). But the poor are spread out quite uniformly across the country. In such cases,
much of the policy response still should
be spatially neutral, with special efforts
to ensure equal access to public services
to people in these areas. Afghanistan and
Tajikistan are other examples of countries
with divisions and sparsely populated lagging areas.

WDR09_16_Ch08.indd 242

Other countries may have just a few lagging areas that are sparsely populated and
divided. In Indonesia, an otherwise unified
country, places like Aceh are considered lagging areas, with divisions that weaken labor
and capital mobility. Policy makers may be
tempted to provide economic incentives for
firms in these areas to compensate for the
lack of factor mobility, but the accompanying risk of creating enclaves of development
and deepening existing divisions should be
considered. Instead, initiatives that promote
economic integration by increasing factor mobility may be better suited for both
economic and political reasons. Examples
include spatially targeted programs to
improve education and equal opportunity
legislation to ensure that workers from lagging areas do not face labor market discrimination in other parts of the country.
Institutions and infrastructure to overcome distance and density. When distance is
coupled with high population densities in lagging areas, spatially connective infrastructure
is also necessary. Countries in this category
include Bangladesh, Brazil, Colombia, the
Arab Republic of Egypt, Thailand, and Turkey. Isolation from markets in more dynamic
parts of the country (or the world) can reduce
consumer welfare, as residents face higher
prices because of market fragmentation, and

10/8/08 3:14:26 PM

243

Unity, Not Uniformity

workers and producers have less access to
markets. In principle, infrastructure investments that connect peripheral areas to markets should improve both consumer welfare
and productive efficiency.
With sizable concentrations of the poor
in lagging areas, spatially blind institutions
that promote the mobility of labor and capital and ensure the provision of basic services must be aided by policies to improve
the access of entrepreneurs in lagging areas
to markets. Although migration will aid
spatial efficiency and equity, with large
numbers of the poor in lagging areas, this
could take a long time (see chapter 5). Better infrastructural links between lagging
and leading areas, by improving market
access, may allow some activities to flourish in lagging areas. But they may increase
the concentration of economic activity
in leading areas, because fi rms that value
agglomeration benefits will now be able
to serve lagging area markets from farther
away (see chapter 6). Activities that respond
to better infrastructure in lagging areas are
those that do not exhibit agglomeration
economies—agriculture, agroprocessing,
and labor-intensive manufacturing such as
leather and wood products (see chapter 4).
A useful way to conceptualize how infrastructure investments improve connectivity is to think about a measure of market
access that captures the size and density
of market centers and the quality of transport networks that link different locations
to these centers. The measure comes from
the gravity model used to analyze trade
between areas and countries, with the interaction between two places proportional to
their size (population or economic density)
and inversely proportional to the distance
between them (see box 8.6).
Consider the Arab Republic of Egypt.
The location of human settlements has been
dictated by a dominant natural geography
constraint—access to water. Most people,
in leading areas around Cairo and Alexandria as well as lagging areas in Upper Egypt
around Aswan and Qena, live along the Nile
(see map 8.6). As in the densely populated
coastal zone in Brazil, institutions to integrate Egypt need to be complemented with
connective infrastructure to ensure both

WDR09_16_Ch08.indd 243

Map 8.5 In the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, the poverty rate is high outside the capital
region, but poor people are scattered in remote communities

LAO
P.D.R.

Poverty rate:
proportion of poor (%)
21–40
41–60
61–80
81–100

Poverty density
Each dot represents
2,000 poor persons

Source: Richter, van der Weide, and Souksavath 2005.
Note: Dots are placed randomly within each province and do not reflect population distribution.

spatial efficiency in production and spatially
egalitarian living standards.
There is a long history of using connective
infrastructure to integrate peripheral areas
with national markets. When accompanied
by institutions that integrate nations, such
infrastructure investments can pay off. In
the United States, the Congress passed the
Appalachian Regional Development Act in
1965, relying on spatially blind institutions
and connective infrastructure to integrate
the 22 million people in this lagging area,
which spans 13 states, with the rest of the
country. 29 The basic strategy combined
regionally coordinated social programs
and physical infrastructure. The 1965 Act
allocated 85 percent of the funds for highways—seen as critical to meeting other
socioeconomic objectives—and, cumulatively, highways have accounted for more
than 60 percent of the appropriated funds
through the mid-1990s. Other investments
included hospitals and treatment centers,
land conservation, mineland restoration,
flood control and water resource management, vocational education facilities, and
sewage treatment works. Between 1965 and
1991, total personal income and earnings

10/8/08 3:14:27 PM

244

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Low market access in Mexico’s lagging south

B OX 8.6

Quantitative information on regional
or local market integration is scarce.
Summary statistics—such as the road
length in a state or province or the
straight-line distance to ports or urban
agglomerations—are poor proxies for the
complexity of a national or regional transportation network. To improve on them,
a geographic representation of Mexico’s
transport network is used to compute an
index of accessibility for each municipio in
the country as a simple measure of potential market integration.
This index summarizes the size of the
potential market that can be reached
from a particular point given the density
and quality of the transport network in
that region. For any point in the country,
it is the sum of the population of urban
centers surrounding that point, inversely
weighted by the travel time to reach

that center. It is computed using an upto-date digital map of transportation
infrastructure from the Mexican statistical
agency (Instituto Nacional de Estadística
y Geografía, INEGI).a For each road segment, the database indicates the number
of lanes and whether those lanes are
paved or unpaved—and for railroad lines,
the number of tracks. For each category
of road or rail, average travel speeds are
estimated to calculate how long it will
take to traverse each segment in the
transport network.b Urban population
data from the INEGI database indicate
the location and population size of about
700 cities and agglomerations in Mexico.
These urban centers accounted for about
68 million of Mexico’s 97 million people
in 2000.
The map of market access (below)
shows high values of the index around

the federal district, thanks to concentrations of people and infrastructure. A quarter of Mexico’s GDP is generated within
two hours’ travel time from the center of
the Federal District. The southern states
of Chiapas, Guerrero, and Oaxaca, the
poorest areas, have low market access.
Source: Deichmann, Fay, Koo, and Lall 2004.
a. The digital road and rail network includes
171,000 kms of roads, of which 84,000 kms
are paved roads; 51,000 are unpaved; and
36,000 are paths and breaches. The rail
network has an estimated total length of
14,000 kms. These values are calculated by
a geographic information system (GIS) from
1:1 million scale digital maps and may not
necessarily match official statistics.
b. Using travel time on a transport network
provides a more accurate measure of accessibility compared with the computationally
much simpler straight-line distance, as
employed, for example, by Hanson (1998).

Market access in Mexico is highest around the national capital and low in the lagging southern states

Low

Accessibility Index

High

City population,
2000 (thousands)
50–100
100–500
500–1,000
1,000–5,000
> 5,000

Mexico City

GUERRERO
OAXACA

CHIAPAS
MEXICO

Source: Deichmann, Fay, Koo, and Lall 2004.

grew 48 percentage points faster on average in the Appalachian counties than in
their economic “sisters,” population grew 5
points faster, and per capita income grew 17
points faster.30
Institutions, infrastructure, and incentives to overcome distance, density, and
division. When countries face divisions

WDR09_16_Ch08.indd 244

caused by ethnolinguistic or religious heterogeneity, the forces of factor mobility can
be weak even over relatively short distances.
Examples include India and Nigeria. In
such cases, spatially focused incentives
may need to complement institutions and
infrastructure to encourage economic production in lagging areas. Commonly used

10/8/08 3:14:28 PM

Unity, Not Uniformity

245

Map 8.6 In the Arab Republic of Egypt, population densities are high in lagging areas, and connective
infrastructure is needed to help spatial integration

Primary roads
Secondary roads

Population
density
High

Low

ARAB REP.
OF EGYPT

Source: World Bank 2008b.

incentives include fiscal incentives and
subsidies, special economic zones, industry
location regulations, and investment climate improvements.
Only a few countries face the triple challenges of distance, density, and division.
Nevertheless, incentives to promote economic development in lagging areas have
been widespread. The experience has been
disheartening.31 In good measure this has
been because incentives have been used
instead of, rather than in addition to, integrative institutions and infrastructure.
More often than not, geographically targeted incentives would not even be necessary if the policy objective was to integrate
leading and lagging areas, rather than promote industry in economically unfavorable
places.
Table 8.1 summarizes policy options
for domestic integration using a calibrated
combination of institutions, infrastructure, and incentives. Policy makers should
keep three points in mind in designing
integration strategies. First, policies should
focus primarily on improving the welfare

WDR09_16_Ch08.indd 245

of people, encouraging them to seek economic opportunities wherever they arise.
Second, they should help unify countries in
the long term. Internal divisions may be a
short-run constraint for economic integration, but the diminution of division should
be a long-term objective. Third, policies
that try to offset constraints posed by divisions should not inadvertently strengthen
them. For example, making land and labor
laws or school systems different in lagging
areas may weaken economic and political
integration.

The framework in action
This section uses the framework to discuss
how countries have used specific policies to
integrate lagging and leading areas.

Institutions that promote portable
investments
Investing in human capital. Universal
primary education and basic health are
mandated across a broad range of developing countries, as shown by the review of
national constitutions discussed earlier. For

10/8/08 3:14:29 PM

246

Table 8.1

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

An instrument per dimension—a framework for area, territorial, or regional development policies
Country type
Sparsely populated lagging areas

Densely populated lagging areas in
united countries

Densely populated lagging areas in divided
countries

Examples (countries)

Chile, China, Ghana, Honduras,
Pakistan, Peru, Russian Federation,
Sri Lanka, Uganda, Vietnam

Bangladesh, Brazil, Colombia, Arab
Rep. of Egypt, Mexico, Thailand,
Turkey

India, Nigeria

Dimensions of the
integration challenge

Economic distance (1-D)

Economic distance
High population densities in lagging
areas (2-D)

Economic distance
High population densities
Internal divisions (3-D)

What policies should
facilitate

Labor and capital mobility

Labor and capital mobility
Market integration for goods and
services

Labor and capital mobility
Market integration for goods and services
Selected economic activities in lagging areas

Fluid land and labor markets, security,
education and health programs, safe
water and sanitation

Fluid land and labor markets, security,
education and health programs, safe
water and sanitation

Fluid land and labor markets, security,
education and health programs, safe water
and sanitation

Interregional transport infrastructure
Information and communication
services

Interregional transport infrastructure
Information and communication services

Policy Priorities
Spatially blind
institutions
Spatially connective
infrastructure
Spatially targeted
incentives

Incentives to agriculture and agro-based
industry
Irrigation systems
Workforce training
Local roads

Source: WDR 2009 team.

example, constitutions state that primary
education should be free and universal,
regardless of the place of residence, and supplementary national laws specify how many
years of instruction are necessary to complete primary education. In conflict-driven
or postconflict countries, basic education is
viewed as a tool for national reconciliation
and ensuring territorial integrity.
Despite such legislation, education,
health, and poverty levels vary considerably among areas in many countries, particularly in Asia and Africa. In China, the
human development index (a combination
of education, health, and income levels) of
the leading area in 2003 was 0.97, close to
the Republic of Korea’s index, and that of
the lagging area was 0.59, about the same as
Lao PDR’s index (see figure 8.2). Chapter 2
pointed out that these gaps were even higher
some years ago.
Developing human capital is essential
whether policies aim to bring jobs to people or encourage the movement of people
to jobs. One of the main gains comes from
helping people in lagging areas migrate to
areas with better opportunities. In Russia
the large economic and physical distances

WDR09_16_Ch08.indd 246

between lagging areas and potential destinations have deterred migration. Reducing economic distance, an additional year
of education increases out-migration from
remote areas by 40 percent. 32 As Brazil
transformed from an agricultural to a manufacturing economy, migration flows from
the lagging northeast to the dynamic south
and southeast increased between 1960 and
2000. In the northeast people who have at
least a primary education migrate more frequently than less educated people.33
One of the biggest success stories is in the
United States, where a rise in the schooling
of African Americans is believed to have
been an important causal factor behind their
“Great Migration” out of the South. In 1900,
90 percent of African Americans lived in the
South, and only 4.3 percent of those born in
the region were living elsewhere. By 1950 the
proportion in the South had declined to 68
percent, and 19.6 percent of those born in
the region had left it. Census data for 1900,
1940, and 1950 show that better-educated
people were more likely to migrate because
schooling increased their awareness of distant labor market opportunities and their
ability to assimilate into a different social

10/8/08 3:14:32 PM

247

Unity, Not Uniformity

and economic environment, thus lowering
the costs.34 In another U.S. study of people
tracked between 1968 and 1982, those with
high education levels showed less inclination
to change professions but were more likely
to move geographically. A person with a college education was likely to move three times
more often than a person with an eighthgrade education or less.35
Opening options for migration stimulates greater human capital investments:
people consider not only the local returns to
education but also the returns in other locations. If schooling options are available in
poor areas, potential migrants will invest in
additional human capital, anticipating that
jobs in leading areas require higher skills.
Employers in those areas are likely to favor
educated workers who signal themselves as
more “able” than other workers from lagging areas. In the United States, African
American school enrollment rates were
significantly higher in southern states that
previously had experienced high rates of outmigration. An increase in earlier migration
rates explains 7.4 percent of the increase in
African American enrollment rates between
1910 and 1930. As more African Americans
migrated from the South, migration became
more common and feasible, and school
enrollments rose in response.
Schooling has a strong effect on welfare,
as in Brazil. Nine states in the northeast
have the worst education attainments, with
gains smaller than in the rest of the country. Average illiteracy in the nine states fell
42 percent, less than the 49 percent in other
states, and is still twice the national average (18 percent versus 9 percent). Differences in schooling explain more than half
the income difference between the northeast and the leading southeast. If the local
populace had the same education profi le as
people in the southeast, average incomes in
the northeast would increase by more than
half, moving from 62 percent of the Brazilian average to 93 percent.36
Government programs, such as that for
the universal primary education in Uganda,
often reflect national priorities. Uganda’s
program increased enrollments in the
north—the country’s poorest area (see box
8.7). But more effort is needed to improve

WDR09_16_Ch08.indd 247

Figure 8.2

Living standards can vary considerably between leading and lagging areas

Human development index
1.0
0.97

0.9
0.82

0.8
0.76
0.7

0.74

0.75

0.78

0.67
0.6
0.55

0.58

0.67

0.60

0.5

0.49

0.58

0.50

0.4
0.3

Lao PDR
2000

Indonesia
2002

Mongolia
2002

Vietnam
2001

Philippines
2003

Thailand
2003

China
2003

Source: Gill and Kharas 2007.

education quality because of the higher
costs of delivering services in the northern
region. With poor implementation capacity
and underspending in lagging areas, the gap
between “regional needs” and allocations
from higher levels of government becomes
even wider. Although this could be seen
as spatial targeting of public spending, an
outcome-oriented policy framework would
regard such efforts as spatially blind.
Transfer mechanisms for public services.
Redistributive transfers from higher levels
of government can reduce disparities in fiscal capacity and public service provision
across subnational jurisdictions. At least
three criteria motivate their allocation:

•

•
•

Need. Areas with lower incomes would
receive more investment, but richer
areas may also demand more resources
to meet the needs of population growth
and congestion.
Efficiency. Areas with higher returns
to investment would receive more
allocations.
Equality. Spending is equalized across
locations, so that public investments do
not give an advantage to any single area.

Need-based transfers can improve public service delivery in lagging areas, because
local tax bases may be inadequate to generate enough revenues. Intergovernmental
transfers can help provide similar access to
public services for residents anywhere in
the country. Such transfers are particularly

10/8/08 3:14:32 PM

248

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

B OX 8.7

Universal primary education in Uganda increased
access to schools in the northern areas

President Museveni’s decision to
implement universal primary education (UPE) in 1996 made Uganda the
first African country to institute such a
policy. UPE abolished tuition and contributions to parent-teacher associations and school building funds. The
impact on primary school enrollment
has been large, with those in the poorest quintile gaining most and, within
the poorest quintile, the enrollment
of girls more than tripled between
1992–93 and 2002–03. In the lagging
northern area, girls’ enrollment rose
from 40 percent to 73 percent.

UPE has had an equalizing effect
in access but not in quality and performance. In the northern area, high
rates of teacher absenteeism, low
financial incentives to teachers, and
limited education infrastructure and
teaching materials produce low education performance. And the per capita budget allocations to the region
do not always reflect the higher costs
of delivering services there. A spatially blind program of education that
emphasizes outcomes would not be
geographically neutral.
Source: Bird and Higgins 2008.

important for subnational governments
that depend heavily on federal transfers
to cover spending. They fi nance about 60
percent of subnational spending in developing countries and transition economies,
compared with about a third in member
countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
(OECD). In India central government
transfers fi nance more than 30 percent of
state spending. In China central-provincial
and provincial-local transfers fi nanced 67
percent of provincial, 57 percent of prefecture, and 66 percent of county and lowerlevel spending in 2003.37
The allocation rules for transfers thus
have a direct bearing on the potential for
welfare improvement in different areas. But
intergovernmental transfers that finance a
large share of subnational expenditures are
rarely made with spatial equity in mind.
Indeed, the large transfers go to areas where
people already receive high-quality services
(see box 8.8).
Fiscal equalization transfers to lagging
areas are financed by a net tax on the residents of leading areas. A common concern
in the fiscal competition literature is that
higher effective taxes in some areas will
stimulate the out-migration of productive
factors. The new economic geography provides some hope that tax-induced migration will be limited if residents (both firms

WDR09_16_Ch08.indd 248

and households) benefit from agglomeration economies in leading areas. External
economies induce mobile factors to cluster
geographically and turn them into quasifi xed factors. So if residents see benefits
from locating near other similar residents,
they become locked into these locations,
less sensitive to tax differences. Moderate
intergovernmental transfers fi nanced by
leading areas thus can fi nance public services in lagging areas.
Although transfers can bridge shortterm fiscal constraints in lagging areas,
fiscal dependency is a danger. If intergovernment transfers finance a large share of
expenditures, subnational governments are
unlikely to improve local revenue collection or be accountable to local residents.38
OECD countries have recognized these
disincentives, and many have reduced the
equalization component of revenues and
grants (Italy and Spain, for example).
In India, where federal transfers redistribute resources to poor areas, average incomes
in low-income states are 40 percent of those in
high-income states. With local tax revenues
linked to local incomes, the fiscal capacity of
low-income states is worse than that of their
high-income counterparts.39 Compensating
for this difference is a progressive fiscal redistribution system. Low-income states receive
48 percent of total central government transfers, compared with a 17-percent allocation
to high-income states. The progressiveness
of transfers is also evident per capita—Bihar,
the poorest state receives Rs 501 per person in
tax transfers. Maharashtra—a high-income
state and home to India’s leading urban
center, Mumbai—receives only Rs 298 per
person. But the translation of resources into
services on the ground is not always visible in
India’s lagging areas.
Many developing countries are collecting
and disseminating credible information on
service entitlements to increase the accountability of service providers and improve
outcomes. Increasing access to reliable
quantitative information about service delivery outcomes makes it difficult for providers
to ignore this information as anecdotal or
irrelevant. Involving community members
in identifying concerns and encouraging
them to do their own monitoring can create

10/8/08 3:14:32 PM

249

Unity, Not Uniformity

B OX 8.8

Improving the spatial progressivity of Nigeria’s intergovernmental transfers

Poverty and service quality in Nigeria are
worst in the north, particularly the northeast, and much better in the south, particularly the southwest.a, b Nigeria’s states rely
on fiscal transfers from the center to provide most services. Nigeria’s allocation of
statutory grants (NGN 700 billion in 2006)c
is not targeted using a clear principle that
supports poverty reduction: 54 percent of
the funds are divided equally among all
states regardless of population, land area,
poverty, or other measures of need.d Indicators of health care and education make
up only 7 percent of the transfer.
The indicators chosen to direct that
small percentage are regressive in that
they favor states with the best service
delivery and strongest infrastructure.
Basing education transfers purely on
enrollments favors states that already have
education infrastructure and teachers,
penalizing those that do not. Basing health
transfers purely on hospital beds similarly
supports better-off states that have the
resources to build more hospitals.
Per capita transfers to states in the
north (about NGN 3,300 per person)

are lower than those in the southwest
(3,700) despite the north’s having the
highest overall poverty and worst service
delivery.e To determine what would happen if transfers were spatially progressive,
an illustrative policy experiment was
developed by the World Resources Institute to identify the implications. Population and land area, reflecting demand for
services, are used to allocate 50 percent
of the statutory grant. Equal allocations
are reduced to 5 percent (from 54 percent). Education and health care are split
between measures to support current
service levels and those to support progressive funding for states with the poor
services. For education, school enrollment (increased from 4 to 5 percent) is
used for the former purpose, and lack
of access to schooling (increased from 0
to 5 percent) for the latter. Health care
also received a 10 percent weight. The
allocation for revenue effort is kept at 2.5
percent. Poverty was added as a category
by weighting the number of poor and
the poverty rate (headcount ratio) at 2.5
percent apiece.

The proposed changes would shift
intergovernmental transfers toward
states with the greatest need. The maps
below show this shift in per capita
terms.
a. National Bureau of Statistics 2006.
b. See numerous measures of service quality and access (National Bureau of Statistics
2006). Core Welfare Indicator Questionnaire
(CWIQ). Data can be obtained from the
Nigerian Bureau of Statistics electronically
from http://www.nigerianstat.gov.ng/
cwiq/2006/survey0/index.html.
c. The 13 percent derivation of oil proceeds
and disbursements from the oil fund (under
which 9 of the 36 southern states where
oil is produced receive 13 percent of oil
revenues) represents about NGN 330 billion, or about one-third of total transfers to
states in 2006. While the derivation strongly
shapes Nigeria's overall transfers, this transfer is stipulated by the constitution, not by
statute and so is not included here (Nigeria
Federal Ministry of Finance, downloaded
and compiled from http://www.fmf.gov.ng/
portal/detail.php?link=faac).
d. Revenue Mobilization Allocation and Fiscal Commission 2003.
e. National Bureau of Statistics 2004.

Nigeria’s statutory grant transfers per capita with actual transfers in 2006 (left) and with equity considerations (right)
Actual

Proposed

NIGERIA

Naira per capita
180–435
435–752
752–1375
No data

Naira per capita
255–400
400–755
755–1036
No data

Sources: World Resources Institute; www.funnelthemoney.org; Layke and Adam 2008.

WDR09_16_Ch08.indd 249

10/8/08 3:14:32 PM

250

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

a constituency of users willing to hold providers accountable.
Effective service delivery thus depends
on having enough fi nancial resources and
translating them into outcomes on the
ground. Investing in public goods in lagging areas reduces migration possibilities
in the short term, because it improves the
attractiveness of lagging areas. But targeted
social investments to develop portable
assets can improve the welfare of people
and facilitate their longer-term mobility by
making them better prepared for work in
leading and intermediate areas.
Portable pension benefits. Even with
portable assets, people may fi nd it hard to
move. In several countries, a lack of pension portability is likely to slow the pace of
migration. Facing a potential loss in pension
benefits because of differences in schemes
or a lack of portability, workers may be less
likely to move even when leading areas offer
higher wages. The European Commission
finds precisely this problem.40
Better land market regulations. Wellfunctioning land markets make it possible for
people to acquire land, exchange it with others, and use it effectively.41 And policies that set
up defensible and tradable property rights for
land and housing are likely to facilitate people’s geographic mobility. The ability to defend
rights legally rather than physically allows
people to leave their land to take advantage
of short-term opportunities. And the ability
to use land as collateral or sell it allows them
to finance migration costs and benefit from
economic and social opportunities elsewhere.
Government involvement in managing
land markets and enforcing property rights
prevents households from wasting private resources. But too much government
involvement can hurt efficiency. Large-scale
public ownership can withhold land from
the market and artificially increase prices,
precluding many poor people from entering
the market. And high direct costs and complicated procedures can reduce the incentive
for people to formally exchange land.
Policies to safeguard the poor from rising
land and housing costs often have hindered
market functioning. In the Czech Republic,
where there is a large rental market, de facto
rent control has kept prices significantly

WDR09_16_Ch08.indd 250

below the market rate and further restricted
mobility. Tenants do not want to lose their
favorable position in existing contracts.42 In
Chile, meanwhile, the government’s success
in targeting housing subsidies to the poor in
lagging areas has also created a strong incentive for people in these areas not to migrate,
impeding convergence across locations even
in a country that has a small population and
homogenous society.

Institutions and infrastructure to
connect lagging and leading areas
Transport infrastructure. Consider
Bangladesh, a two-dimensional country,
where the most lagging areas are distant
from economic density but densely populated. Selected investments in corrective infrastructure can help greatly. The
bridge over the Jamuna River opened market access for producers in the northwest
around the Rajshahi division. Built at a
cost of almost $1 billion, this bridge provides the fi rst road and rail link between
the northwest, an intermediate area with
the more developed east, which includes
the national capital region. Better market
access and reduced input prices encouraged
farmers to diversify into high-value crops,
such as modern varieties of rice and perishable vegetables.43 The government has
complemented connective infrastructure
policies with spatially blind institutions
to improve coverage of social services. The
Expanded Program on Immunization aims
to immunize all children less than one year
old against the six vaccine-preventable diseases. The Health, Nutrition, and Population Strategic Investment Plan for 2003–10
improves coverage in districts with poor
health indicators.44
In the Islamic Republic of Iran, another
two-dimensional country in the terminology of this Report, connective infrastructure improvements are necessary for spatial
integration. In addition, spatially blind
education policies of improving schools as
well as conditional cash transfers for children to attend schools can improve welfare
in lagging areas.45 Turkey’s lagging eastern
areas have 44 percent of the land but only
5.7 percent of national motorways, and
asphalt road coverage is 40 percent that

10/8/08 3:14:33 PM

251

Unity, Not Uniformity

of the leading regions. The government’s
Village Infrastructure Support Project
(KÖYDES) and Municipal Infrastructure
Support Project (BELDES) have improved
living standards in rural areas and small
towns by paving roads and providing sanitation and drinking water networks.46 And
investments in human capital are likely to
benefit potential migrants as well as those
who stay behind.
Information and communication technologies. Mobile phones have driven down
provision costs, boosting penetration and
improving information flows. In 2003 China
had more mobile phone users (269 million)
than fi xed-line users (263 million). For 29
areas in China between 1986 and 2002, telecommunication infrastructure was strongly
associated with subnational GDP growth.47
Because telecommunication investments
are subject to diminishing returns, lagging
areas can gain the most from them.
New technologies have lowered the costs
of delivering fi nancial services, making
them more affordable. Many people in lagging areas have limited access to fi nancial
services, relying on cash-based transactions
outside the banking system. But with rising international and national remittances,
better access to fi nancial services can help
people in these areas overcome credit
constraints. The proliferation of mobile
services, even in remote areas, opens new
opportunities to provide financial services
over a mobile phone network (m-banking).
Reports from the Philippines indicate that
3.5 million people have access to mobile
phones that can transfer money.48
Producers in lagging areas can receive
better information on prices they can get
for their products. In Kerala, India, mobile
phones reduced the dispersion of market
prices so much that prices differed only by
the transport cost between markets.49 And
in Peru, a ubiquitous but often undervalued
communication system is connecting small
producers with markets—the postal service
(see box 8.9).
Greater benefits in intermediate areas.
Intermediate areas closer to centers of economic mass are likely to gain more from
connectivity-enhancing infrastructure, and
lagging areas are likely to gain less and at a

WDR09_16_Ch08.indd 251

slower pace. Transport connectivity improvements in China’s intermediate areas can be
economically beneficial for lagging areas. By
reducing the transport cost from the west to
the coast, infrastructure investments in the
central (intermediate) transportation hubs
in Henan, Hubei, and Hunan provinces may
well have greater effects on the west’s development than improvements in the western
area itself. But if China’s overall growth is the
main objective, infrastructure investments
in the dynamic economic centers along the
coast—Hebei, Jiangsu, and Shandong—
could still provide the highest payoffs.50
In Brazil improvements to the road
network between the 1950s and 1980s did
reduce transport and logistics costs. But
most of the economic gains accrued to the
center-west, with only small gains to the lagging northeast. During this time, its share
of the national network increased from 15
percent to 25 percent. Even so, such investments did bring economic density closer to
the lagging northeast.
In Colombia, with water and land suitable
for agriculture, the mountainous topography
makes freight transport difficult. So some
intermediate areas are not well integrated

B OX 8 . 9

Exporting by mail in Peru—connecting small
producers to markets

In many countries small enterprises
are often excluded from export
chains because they operate in villages or small towns or do not have
the needed information to export.
In Peru a trade-facilitation program
called “Easy Export” connects small
producers to markets. The key to this
program is the most basic of transport
networks—the national postal service.
How does it work? An individual or
firm takes a package to the nearest
post office, which provides free packaging. The sender fills out an export
declaration form, and the post office
weighs the package and scans the
export declaration form. The sender
pays the fee for the type of service
desired. Goods with values of $2,000
or less can be exported. The main
benefit is that the exporter does not

need to use a customs agent, logistics
agent, or freight forwarder or to consolidate the merchandise; even the
packaging is provided. Firms or individuals need only to go to a post office
with a scale and a paper scanner and
to use the Internet to complete the
export declaration for the tax agency.
Has it made a difference? Within six
months of inception, more than 300
firms shipped goods totaling more
than $300,000. Most users are new
exporters—microentrepreneurs
and small firms, producing jewelry,
alpaca and cotton garments, food
supplements (natural products),
cosmetics, wood art and crafts, shoes
and leather, and processed food.
And many of them are in the poorest
areas of the country.
Source: Guasch 2008.

10/8/08 3:14:34 PM

252

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

with large domestic and international markets. Casanare, the nation’s largest rice producing area, has good potential for biofuels
from corn and palm oil. But it takes 18 hours
to reach Bogotá and 50 hours to access a main
port. Improving road quality would increase
market access and help the area’s economy.
La Mojana, an area with 5,000 square kilometers of flatlands, close to the Atlantic ports
and most Colombian cities, is often flooded,
because it lies in the buffer zone of two major
rivers. Improving ecosystem management
along with transport connectivity would
improve its access to cities and ports.51
Interregional infrastructure improvements can bring higher economic concentration. The potential benefits of improving
market access for peripheral areas may instead
accrue to firms in larger agglomerations.52
And improving transport connectivity can
further concentrate economic activity. Roads
and rails run both ways—better transport
connectivity not only provides market access
to firms in lagging areas, but also allows
firms in leading areas to reach markets. A
decline in transport costs helps competitive
firms in leading areas easily scale up production to reach these new markets at lower cost
relative to local producers in lagging areas.
So improving market access may hurt the
production of standardized goods in lagging
areas. But lower prices and better access to
new products are likely to improve consumer
welfare.
Experience validates this conjecture. In
Italy reducing transport costs between the
north and south in the 1950s deprived Mezzogiorno firms of their previous protection
and accelerated their deindustrialization.53
And in France, where transport costs within
the country fell by 38 percent between 1978
and 1993, the geographic concentration of
employment increased.54
In addition to growth effects that vary
across areas, it is also useful to consider
the distributional effects of infrastructure
improvements. Are the benefits of infrastructure improvements large enough and
distributed progressively enough to reduce
overall income inequalities, with more
benefits accruing to the poor than the nonpoor? Empirical evidence on this question is
limited, but a study from Nepal shows that

WDR09_16_Ch08.indd 252

the development of extensive rural road
networks led to significant economic benefits, with considerable gains to the poor. But
the poor’s share often is not large enough
to significantly reduce income inequality,
because the benefits from road extension
could be greater for the rich.55 In Ghana
the benefits of improving access to infrastructure by the poor could be increased
by complementary spatially blind policies,
such as education and health improvements, which would boost the use of that
infrastructure.56

Institutions, infrastructure, and
incentives to overcome the 3-D
challenge of distance, density, and
division
Incentives to promote economic investments
in lagging areas have been widely used by
countries to accelerate national economic
growth and balance growth outcomes across
places. They seem to work better when they
reinforce market signals and address coordination failures. They are less successful
when governments pick the places to support growth. The following lesson seems
to emerge: let markets pick the place, while
governments help to push the pace.
Incentives that exploit geographic
advantages are more likely to succeed. To
stimulate economic growth, many governments have offered tax holidays, reliable infrastructure, and improvements
to the business environment. Often the
incentives are geographically focused—in
special economic zones—to quickly create enclaves of growth, leaving nationwide
infrastructure and governance shortfalls
to the longer term. There is an ongoing
debate over whether focused incentives
slow the pace of economic reforms, but the
interest here is in identifying where these
incentives are more likely to succeed. Is
it desirable to provide incentives in areas
that already have good geography and
human capital? Or should they be remedial measures to offset market forces and
help develop lagging areas?
In China and India, spatially targeted
incentives are most likely to succeed when
they reinforce geographic advantages, particularly in areas advantaged by good access

10/8/08 3:14:34 PM

Unity, Not Uniformity

to domestic and international markets
(see box 8.10). In Uganda the returns from
infrastructure development in highways and
power supply are highest in areas that already
have a skilled labor force and a diverse mix
of industrial activities.57 These happen to be
along the corridor linking the country’s two
main agglomerations, Kampala and Jinja.
Using infrastructure to spread out manufacturing, instead of facilitating its concentration, can slow national economic growth.
Incentives that enhance market links
and improve agriculture performance in
areas with good natural geography can be
a part of development strategies for densely
populated lagging areas where factor
mobility is constrained. But before offering
incentives, agriculture needs to be assessed
as an economic driver in the local economy.
World Development Report 2008 provides a
useful diagnostic technique to identify subnational areas as agriculture based, transforming, or urbanized—a country’s “three
worlds” of agriculture—based on the share
of aggregate growth originating in agriculture and the share of aggregate poverty in
the rural sector. Applying this technique
can help identify whether agriculture will
remain a prominent feature of lagging areas
in the short to medium term.
Consider Malaysia, where agriculture
is important in the regional economies of
the lagging areas, which account for more
than 40 percent of the country’s people
(Sabah and Sarawak are home to more
than 2 million).58 To encourage agricultural development in the eastern peninsula,
the national government has been offering
reinvestment allowances for capital expenditures related to farming, providing coldchain facilities and services for perishable
agricultural produce and exempting food
processing from tax.59
But in Ghana, where the lagging north is
mostly in the arid Savannah zone and population densities are low, expanding agriculture is less likely to facilitate territorial
integration. Without allowing for large-scale
migration or structural transformation, even
a sharp acceleration in productivity growth
in groundnuts and other northern staples is
insufficient to bring the north up to par with
the south in the medium term.60

WDR09_16_Ch08.indd 253

253

Let markets pick the places. The Republic of Korea is one of the few success stories
involving spatially targeted incentives. To
support economic growth in specific areas,
the national government worked with the
private sector to identify areas offering production advantages. Consistency between
national industrial policy and regional policy objectives was instrumental. Although
deconcentrating economic activity from the
Seoul metropolitan region was an implicit
policy objective in the government’s tax
sharing, decisions to promote exportoriented “strategic industries” were at the
core of industrial and regional policies.61
Spatial equity did not guide national
industrial policies. In fact, areas picked by
the market in different phases of industrialization were encouraged. In the 1960s and
1970s, national industrial policies created
new industrial cities—Ansan, Changwon,
Kumi, Kwangyang, Pohang, and Ulsan.
The private sector (chaebols) established
large branch plants with imported technology and borrowed foreign capital. Marketdriven industrial and regional policy led to
different specializations across the country,
with chaebol headquarters concentrating in
Seoul, and production functions decentralized to areas outside the capital. Since the
mid-1980s, industrial policy to support
high-technology activities triggered industrial reconcentration in the capital region.
To speed the growth, incentives were
complemented by infrastructure investments that connected the southeast to the
capital region. The Gyeongbu expressway,
which connects Busan, Daegu, Daejeon, and
Seoul, enabled industries in the southeast to
reach the capital region within five hours.
Thus industries producing standardized
intermediate goods in the capital and southeast regions benefited from considerable cost
reductions. In the Republic of Korea, it may
be fair to conclude that markets picked the
place and governments pushed the pace.62
Many countries have offered incentives to
create economic mass in lagging areas. The
idea is that to attract firms, lagging areas
need to offset higher transport and logistics
costs, weaker infrastructure, higher factor
prices, and lower levels of public services.
European countries have a long history of

10/8/08 3:14:34 PM

254

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

B OX 8.10

Special economic zones bring growth if they exploit advantages in natural
and economic geographies

Many developing countries have locations where infrastructure conditions
and economic regulations are more hospitable than those typical in the rest of
the country. These locations, often called
special economic zones (SEZs), enhance
industry competitiveness, attract foreign
direct investment, and diversify exports.
Recent estimates suggest that there are
2,300 such zones in developing and transition countries. a

Look at China
The earliest developing-country SEZs
were established in China under Deng
Xiaoping’s leadership in the early 1980s.
In 1978 the government decided to
open the country’s economy to the
outside world. SEZs and “open” coastal
cities were integral to this process. In
1980 SEZs were established along the
southeastern coast in Shenzhen, Zhuhai, and Shantou in Guangdong Prov-

ince and Xiamen in Fujian Province (see
the map below). In 1984 14 coastal cities
opened their doors to overseas investment, and in 1988 the entire island of
Hainan was assigned SEZ status. Around
the same time, the coastal belt around
the Yangtze River Delta, the Pearl River
Delta, and the Xiamen-ZhangzhouQuanzhou Triangle in south Fujian
opened for business with the world. In
the early 1990s the government opened
up 11 border cities and six ports along
the Yangtze River. The developments
reflected a strategy of exploiting the
best locations to access external markets.

And at India
A cursory glance at India’s SEZs suggests
that they were not nearly as well located.
In 2007 SEZs were approved in coastal
states of Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra, and Tamil Nadu, as well as inte-

rior states of Haryana, Karnataka, Punjab,
and Rajasthan. Even in the coastal states,
many SEZs are not along the coast. b
Closer inspection reveals considerable diversity across product specialization, which range from standardized
manufacturing to information technology and pharmaceuticals. Compared
with standardized manufacturing
products, human capital–intensive
products depend more on reliable
telecommunication infrastructure
and access to airports, not harbors.
Moreover, India’s economic zones also
target the large domestic market. Take
Gurgaon, a satellite town a stone’s
throw from Delhi’s international airport, which 20 years ago was a cluster
of villages (gaon is the Hindi word for
village). Now it is one of the main service-oriented corridors in the country,
sitting in the middle of India’s largest
consumer market. It houses such infor-

China’s special economic zones opened the country to external markets

4 first special economic zones (1980)
14 coastal cities (1984)
3 deltas (1985)

Province of Hainan (1988)
6 ports of Yangtze (1992)
11 border cities (1992)

Source: WDR 2009 team, based on Huang and Luo forthcoming.

WDR09_16_Ch08.indd 254

10/9/08 11:23:09 PM

255

Unity, Not Uniformity

B OX 8.10

Special economic zones bring growth if they exploit advantages in natural
and economic geographies—continued

mation technology service providers
as IBM and Microsoft, along with such
consumer goods providers as CocaCola, Gillette, and Nestlé.
Unlike China’s government-led
SEZs, India’s are being developed by
the private sector, by such companies
as Infosys and HCL, promoting information technology development, c
reflecting broader global trends. Of
SEZs in developing countries, 62 percent are private, up from 25 percent

in the 1980s. They are generally more
profitable and have better social and
environmental track records than public zones, except in East Asia’s government-run zones.
Location is the key: poor location is
the main obstacle to success. It seems
to matter more where the zones are
located, not who owns and operates
them. The lesson from China and India is
that spatially directed interventions are
more likely to succeed when they exploit

using industrial policies to attract firms to
lagging areas. But fiscal incentives, while
politically efficient, have not transformed
the economic fortunes of lagging areas: 63

•

•

•

In Italy one of the main objectives of the
national economic program begun in 1965
was to eliminate development gaps between
the south and the rest of the country. To
support this program, financial incentives
were provided to firms in the south through
partial exemptions of welfare contributions.
Through 1992 public infrastructure and
financial incentives promoted industrial
development in the region.
In France the Fifth National Plan
(1966–70) provided assistance to agriculture and began to direct industrial investment away from Paris toward low-income
areas in the west. Light industries—with
lower transport costs and higher labor
intensity—were targeted for relocation.
The United Kingdom has supported
economic development in northern
England, Scotland, Wales, and northern Ireland. During World War II, wartime building controls directed industry
out of the south of England and into
northern and peripheral areas. During
the postwar recession in 1958, employment in coal mining, textiles, and shipbuilding declined, renewing interest in
bringing jobs to the north. The 1960s
saw regionally differentiated investment

WDR09_16_Ch08.indd 255

geographic advantages rather than try
to offset them.
Source: WDR 2009 team.
a. SEZs take a variety of forms, which
include free trade zones, export processing
zones, enterprise zones, freeports, and specialized zones (Gauthier 2007).
b. Location of SEZs is based on SEZ INDIAWEB at http://www.sezindiaweb.com/
SEZ_map.html.
c. Information on SEZs in India is drawn
from the Indiastat database.

incentives and building grants to lagging
areas through the Local Employment
Act, along with relocation of 250,000
manufacturing jobs from prosperous to
lagging areas.
A common theme in traditional
regional policies focusing on taxes, subsidies, and regulations is that they were
mainly central government initiatives to
create employment and provide infrastructure with the objective of dispersing (or
fighting the concentration of) economic
activity. They targeted specific fi rms in the
hope that they would become anchors in
the local economy and have large multiplier effects.64 But for the most part, these
incentives have not stimulated sustained
growth in the lagging areas, imposing
large costs on taxpayers.
Most European countries now focus more
on “soft” interventions, such as investing in
innovation and supporting research institutes and science and technology parks (see
table 8.2).65 Central government programs
have been replaced by greater cooperation
between the public and private sectors. And
rather than target specific firms, coordinated
measures are attracting clusters of interrelated firms. Rigorous evaluations of these
programs are hard to come by. But innovation policies that bring new information and
technologies to lagging areas should in principle help in the long term.

10/8/08 3:14:36 PM

256

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Table 8.2 The OECD’s experience with incentives to stimulate lagging areas has been evolving
“Traditional”
regional policies

“New” regional policies

The economic
perspective

Objective

Create jobs
and provide
large-scale
infrastructure

Provide complementary
services, subsidize the
cost of innovation—
research institutes,
science and technology
parks

Incentives should be
provided only to “new”
activities—products new
to the local economy
and new technologies to
produce existing products

Main players

Central
government

Public-private
partnerships

Public sector has limited
information on what firms
want

Focus area

Incentives to
attract individual
firms

Encourage development
of clusters—both
sectors and business
development

Public sector support
must target activities,
not sectors; subsidized
activities must have
strong spillovers

Strategy

Source: WDR 2009 team.

The U.S. federal government is also
involved in smaller “economic development” programs. A recent review identifies 180 programs of U.S. federal agencies
addressing issues as diverse as planning
and economic development strategies,
industrial parks, infrastructure repair, and
building renovation. The agency with the
greatest visibility in this group is the Economic Development Administration (EDA)
of the U.S. Department of Commerce.66
The EDA has spent more than $188 billion
on economic development, but with little
coordination among initiatives, or a common policy objective. The EDA reports that
its investments leverage about $37 in private sector investment for every dollar that
it spends.67 No independent evaluation of
these programs is available.
Area incentives, popular in developing
countries, have produced mixed results
at best (see table 8.3). In Brazil, where the
goal has been to attract “dynamic” industries to the lagging north and northeast
by providing fiscal incentives, expenditures have reached $3 billion to $4 billion
a year. A recent impact evaluation shows
that the allocation of these “constitutional
funds” did induce the entry of footloose
manufacturing establishments into lagging
regions—but incentives were not attractive enough for vertically integrated industries.68 Between 1970 and 1980 the Mexican
government used fiscal incentives to promote industrial development outside the
three largest urban agglomerations. Firms

WDR09_16_Ch08.indd 256

locating outside these three large cities were
eligible for a 50- to 100-percent reduction in
import duties and income, sales, and capital
gains taxes, as well as accelerated depreciation and lower interest rates. Their impact
on economic decentralization was insignificant because import duties on raw materials
and capital goods were low to begin with,
so the reductions had no effect on location
decisions and lost revenues.69
In India the Industrial Policy Resolution of 1956 set up a strict licensing system
to direct investment into lagging areas.
The Indian government decided that no
licenses would be issued to new industrial
units in the vicinity of large metropolitan
areas. And state governments and financial
institutions were asked to deny support to
new industries in metropolitan areas even
when they did not require an industrial
license. Large public sector projects (steel
plants, for example) were located in the lagging states of Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, and
Orissa. Industrial estates (or growth centers) received infrastructure investments
and fi nancial incentives for private industrial investment in designated lagging districts. The policies effectively stifled growth
in areas that had good market access and
human capital and did not allow exit of
unproductive activities from lagging areas.
Even after more than 30 years of draconian
regulation, few districts in backward areas
became major industrial centers.
The economic reforms in 1991 scrapped
these licensing policies. The decline of production in inland areas continued, and
places with good market access and good
local business environments flourished.
The ten best-performing industrial districts are now located south of the Vindhya
mountain range, which divides north from
south.70
Similarly, in the former Soviet Union,
central planners decided where firms would
locate and tried to spread economic activity
throughout the country’s landscape. They
spread production facilities across the former
Soviet Union’s millions of square kilometers.
Far from markets and lacking specialization,
their productivity suffered. How did the
transition to markets change things? New
firms located closer to markets and old ones

10/8/08 3:14:36 PM

257

Unity, Not Uniformity

in remote areas closed down. The result was
a 2.5 percent gain in firm productivity annually between 1989 and 2004.71
Coordinating local and national incentives. Incentives for lagging areas are best
coordinated with national sectoral policies:
taking stock of various national economic
promotion initiatives and aligning spatial
interventions with these policies can help.
For instance, spatially targeted subsidies
represent only 12 percent of Brazil’s export
promotion and industrialization subsidies,
which favor the industrial southeast. Estimates suggest that these industrial subsidies
cost $42 billion in 1999, or 4.4 percent of
GDP.72 In Brazil initiatives to recruit firms
into the northeast clearly were fighting an
uphill battle against broader industrial
incentives that were better aligned with
market forces.
In India, too, common pricing policies to reduce overall inequalities hurt the
economic prospects of lagging areas. The
Freight Equalization Policy of 1956 standardized the prices for transporting “essential” items such as coal, steel, and cement
nationwide regardless of distance. Lost in
the process were the location-based advantages of resource-rich areas. The affected
areas included southern Bihar, eastern
Madhya Pradesh, and western Orissa, each
among the poorest, least industrialized
parts of the country. The policy weakened
the incentives for private capital to locate
production in lagging areas.
Decentralization often has been accompanied by the efforts of subnational governments to create economic mass to meet
expenditure responsibilities. They offer fiscal incentives and tax expenditures to attract
firms to their jurisdictions. But if not coordinated, these incentives can be wasteful and
counterproductive.
Look at the competition between states
in Brazil, where Bahia and Rio Grande do
Sul competed to attract a Ford Motor Company plant in the 1990s. Rio Grande do Sul
offered a package of incentives to Ford that
included a R$210 million (around US$200
million) loan from the state at extremely
favorable conditions (6 percent interest, 15
years to repay), additional state expenditures of R$234 million on infrastructure

WDR09_16_Ch08.indd 257

Table 8.3 A range of instruments has been used by governments to create economic mass in
lagging areas, with modest results
Instrument

Examples

Investment
subsidies

Brazil: Constitutional funds (interest rate subsidies)—induced entry
of footloose firms, but not for firms in vertically integrated industries
(Carvalho, Lall, and Timmins 2005)

Tax holidays

Thailand: Income tax exemptions; sales tax reductions for firms locating
in secondary cities in the 1970s—unsuccessful as deductions from
taxable profits did not induce firms to locate in unprofitable locations
(World Bank 1980)

Reductions in
import duties

Mexico: Import duty and tax exemptions for deconcentrating
manufacturing out of the three largest agglomerations—unsuccessful
as tax rates were low to begin with (World Bank 1977, Scott 1982)

Industrial estates/
free trade zones

Chile: Free trade zones in zonas extremas with exemptions for customs,
value added tax, corporate profit, and real estate taxes—successful
in the high-tax, high-tariff period until the mid-1990s, performance
declined with national import duty reduction from 35 percent in the
1980s to 6 percent in 2000 (World Bank 2005b)

Regulation

India: Preference to backward areas in industry licensing (1956
industrial policy), with public sector–led industrial growth in lagging
areas and regulations to stop industrial expansion in leading areas—
few backward areas took off, and when regulations were relaxed, these
lagging areas declined further (Chakravorty and Lall 2007)

Source: WDR 2009 team.

and public works, an assured loan from the
national development bank of R$500 million, and exemptions from local taxes for
10 years. When the state government tried
to renegotiate the deal fearing that it was
too generous, Ford moved to Bahia, which
offered a package similar to the original one.
Evaluations show that these “fiscal wars” cost
Brazilian taxpayers around $172,000 per job
created—five times the cost of job creation
in a General Motors plant in Tennessee.73
Thinking through the design of incentives. Before using incentives to promote
economic development in lagging areas,
national and subnational governments
should fi rst fi nd out why some areas are
being bypassed by the market. Is it because
of the low social returns to economic production in these places, the low ability to
capture these returns, or the high cost of
fi nance?74 Have policies actively or inadvertently blocked local economic growth?
The success of incentives depends on how
well the problem is diagnosed, perhaps
starting with area-specific natural, human,
and infrastructure endowments.75 “Know
thy economy,” a phrase used in the World
Development Report 2000/01, should be the
motto of subnational governments. Good
information can promote constructive

10/8/08 3:14:37 PM

258

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

debate on development options and build
consensus around a development strategy.
If the information and subsequent analysis points to specific opportunities for
growth, the next step is to identify whether
the planned incentives are to subsidize capital formation or to promote innovation.
If they are to attract fi rms with potential
local multipliers, it is important to know
whether the product lines value agglomeration economies, which would reduce the
power of the incentives. For firms in sectors
in which economies of scale and agglomeration are important for production, it is
less likely that spatially targeted interventions will attract them to lagging areas.
Industrial surveys in Brazil, China, India,
Indonesia, and Mexico show that manufacturing fi rms in many product lines value
both internal scale economies from market access and agglomeration economies
in deciding their location.76 Firms producing standardized products serving local
markets, and those specializing in natural
resources, are less likely to value agglomeration economies than are those depending on skilled labor, business services, and
access to information.
And from a national growth perspective,
it is important to find out whether relocating
“targeted” industries produces net additional
employment and output nationally. If not,
local efforts of attracting industry may be
zero-sum games. If the relocated industries
are less productive, policy makers may face a
negative sum. If incentives are being used to
promote innovation, it is important to ensure
that local production processes can accommodate the innovations.

Avoiding Balkanization:
the political benefits of
economic integration
Economic and political objectives can
clash, but more often they coincide. In the
Western Balkans, the former republic of
Yugoslavia became a federation after World
War II but disintegrated when its republics
declared themselves independent in the
early 1990s. Fueling the disintegration was
rising autarky and fragmentation in Yugoslavia since the mid-1970s, with barriers
to movements of people and capital across

WDR09_16_Ch08.indd 258

republican borders, limited interrepublic
trade, and duplicated economic production. In 1987, for example, 70 percent of all
production in Serbia was consumed in the
local market.77
As discussed in chapter 5, analysis suggests that factor mobility equalizes welfare across areas, weakening incentives to
break away from an economic and political
union.78 By contrast, persistent inequalities
across areas fuel disintegration movements.
Unity, not uniformity, is the valid principle
for both political and economic integration.
This chapter has provided a framework
for integrating lagging and leading areas as
countries address economic distance, misplaced density, and internal divisions. Economic forces are likely to produce spatial
divergence in growth outcomes. Economic
models of geography and growth show that
increasing returns to scale and agglomeration economies can start and sustain a virtuous circle of growth and investment in a
few areas.
For valid reasons, though, policy makers are concerned with reducing geographic
imbalances soon, sometime between now
and the long term. And sometimes, political pressures can be such that widening
divergence at any point is unacceptable.
The typical territorial development policy
response has emphasized targeted incentives and large-scale infrastructure to
encourage economic production in lagging
areas. However, the evidence reviewed in
this chapter shows that many such policies
have led to waste. In the meantime, policies that address institutional bottlenecks
that can help people seize opportunities
elsewhere or improve their living standards
locally may be ignored.
Even with such compromises, the biggest part of the policy challenge lies in
identifying the outcomes that can be realistically sought, that is, which depend on
the stage of development and the fiscal and
institutional capacities of a country. Where
incomes are low, it may be feasible only to
reduce spatial disparities in poverty rates
and in access to essential shelter, water,
health, nutrition, and education services.
China’s 11th Five-Year Plan passed by the
National People’s Congress in 2006 states

10/8/08 3:14:37 PM

259

Unity, Not Uniformity

that “the construction of public fi nance
system should be accelerated . . . to gradually equalize basic public services.” In October 2007 the 17th Congress again pointed
out that, to narrow regional disparities,
equalization of basic public service provision would be the priority. Upper-middleincome countries can be more ambitious
in equalizing basic consumption indicators across areas, and developed countries
such as those in the EU more ambitious
still. Reducing spatial inequality in disposable incomes may be the relevant target for
high-income countries.
But at all stages of development, forcing
economic production to spread evenly across
areas is both elusive and expensive. Growth
generally is unbalanced, but it always
brings more resources for societies to balance development outcomes. Policy makers
should identify and execute strategies that
balance development outcomes across areas
by means other than resisting the forces of
unbalanced growth—because that is tantamount to fighting economic growth itself.
The framework in this chapter is
intended to help policy makers identify the
policies best suited to addressing domestic integration. The suggested solutions
consider country-specific conditions. The
main points? First, integration strategies
should increase the access of the poor in
lagging areas to opportunities, through a
set of spatially blind institutions. Second,
infrastructure that connects lagging to
leading areas is needed when the problem
of distance between lagging and leading
areas is coupled with misplaced population density in the lagging areas. Third,
when the problem of economic distance
comes accompanied by both misplaced

WDR09_16_Ch08.indd 259

Table 8.4

Assessing the performance of area development policies

Performance
criteria

Reduce inequalities
across regions?
(interregional equity)

Pro-poor?
(interpersonal
equity)

Avoid tradeoff with
spatial efficiency?

Institutions

Yes

Yes

Yes

Infrastructure

No

No

Yes

Incentives

No

No

No

Source: World Bank 2008b, based on country-specific case studies.

density and division, targeted incentives
are necessary.
This framework was tested using
country-specific case studies of spatial
integration, which included Brazil, Ghana,
India, Mexico, Russia, and Uganda. Each
set of integration policies is examined using
three criteria: (1) Do they reduce economic
distance across subnational areas? (2) Are
these policies pro-poor? (3) Are these policies spatially efficient (that is, do these policies avoid tradeoffs with spatial efficiency)?
Table 8.4 summarizes the findings. Efforts
to strengthen institutions fare well on all
three criteria. Although infrastructure
investments may not reduce economic distances or help the poor, they can be spatially
efficient. Geographically specific incentives
do not fare well.
Perhaps most important, the chapter
identifies the point at which all discussions of territorial development policies
should start—with spatially blind institutions. Infrastructure that connects lagging
areas to markets can help nations integrate.
Sometimes, not always, these discussions
should include spatially targeted incentives. The right mix of integration instruments will bring the benefits that come
from both unbalanced growth and inclusive development.

10/8/08 3:14:37 PM

CHAPTER 9

Winners without Borders
Integrating poor countries with world markets

M

260

WDR09_17_Ch09.indd 260

any leaders in Africa called for a
political union of the continent
at the time of independence.
Félix Houphouët-Boigny, Côte d’Ivoire’s first
president, was more pragmatic, promoting
a gradual increase in economic cooperation
with neighboring countries. He proposed
one of the first regional economic agreements in Africa, the “Conseil de l’Entente,”
backed by a solidarity fund provided mainly
by Côte d’Ivoire. The key elements of the
Entente were free trade and free movement
of people.1
The preferred destination of migrants
was, naturally, Côte d’Ivoire. Its share of
foreigners increased from 5 percent in
1950 to 26 percent of its 16 million people
in 1998—making the country one of the
top dozen destinations for international
migrants in the world. Côte d’Ivoire benefited as foreign workers contributed to
export-led growth in industry and agriculture. Sending countries—especially Benin,
Burkina Faso, Niger, and Togo—benefited
from remittances and increased trade. The
political crisis triggered by a coup in 1999
affected the entire region. But HouphouëtBoigny had vested his country’s neighbors
in its future, earning the nickname of “The
Sage of Africa.”
Côte d’Ivoire reflects the main lines of
argument in this chapter. In today’s developed regions—Europe, North America,
and Northeast Asia—most economic activities are highly concentrated, their exports
are specialized, and living standards are
converging. These regions have overcome
national borders and have integrated their

economies within their neighborhoods and
with the rest of the world. Regional and
global integration have been complements,
not substitutes, in the development of these
regions (see box 9.1).
But in most of the developing world, concentration and convergence have been slow,
often because of persisting economic, political, and cultural divisions between countries (see chapter 3). These divisions make it
hard for countries to take advantage of scale
economies (see chapter 4), mobile labor and
capital (see chapter 5), and falling transport costs (see chapter 6). Some developing
countries have tried to globalize through
unilateral liberalization; others have tried
to integrate regionally. There have been successes and failures with both strategies. This
chapter deals with ways to combine these
strategies by increased cooperation among
neighbors and strong connections to world
markets, while recognizing and avoiding the
tradeoffs that can arise between these two
approaches.
The chapter proposes regional integration as a mechanism to increase local supply
capacity and global integration to improve
access to markets and suppliers. Integration means cooperation between countries
in trade, domestic regulations and policies,
regional infrastructure, and other crossborder initiatives, including public goods.
Regional integration implies cooperation
within a neighborhood of countries. Global
integration implies cooperation at an even
wider international level.
This chapter’s framework for policy
action uses a taxonomy of neighborhoods

10/8/08 3:40:24 PM

261

Winners without Borders

to organize thinking about how best to confront the development challenges of each of
the developing world’s regions.
The main strategies are as follows:

•

•

•

Countries close to large world markets
should strive to benefit from proximity
to high economic density and become
an extension of the large markets. Mexico, the Caribbean, the European Union
(EU) accession countries, and the Republic of Korea are linked, respectively, with
the U.S., EU, and Japanese markets. But
integration must go beyond a simple
free trade agreement to gain significant
development benefits. The biggest challenge is to make domestic markets attractive enough to investors to be seen as an
extension of the large market nearby.
Countries with big neighbors but far
from world markets should develop
their regional market. This requires
two instruments: institutional reforms
that facilitate intraregional trade and
factor mobility—and infrastructure
investments that link lagging to leading countries and the region to major
world markets. Regional integration can
naturally support regional production
networks. These networks maximize
production-cost advantages that come
with increasing returns to scale, and they
allow small countries to specialize in
niche products in regional supplier networks. Greater cost efficiency on the supply side makes it easier for such regions
to then integrate with global markets.
Countries far from world markets in
Central Asia, the small Pacific Islands,
and Sub-Saharan Africa—the world’s
“bottom billion”—face the stiffest challenges to economic growth and need a
strong commitment for cooperative solutions. Regional integration can occur in
“natural” neighborhoods with three sets
of instruments. They need close institutional cooperation and comprehensive
regional infrastructure investments, as
with the others. But they also may need
cross-country compensation mechanisms to sustain the integration effort
because deep integration is likely to lead
to uneven short-term gains and losses
across countries. The international com-

WDR09_17_Ch09.indd 261

B OX 9 . 1

Are the policy messages of this Report
anti–global integration? No.

World Development Report 2009
focuses on regional integration
because that is where considerable
scope for policy action now lies. But
this does not imply that the message
is against global integration. Quite
the contrary. This chapter argues that
regional cooperation boosts the supply capabilities of a neighborhood
by providing regional public goods
and taking advantage of regional
specialization. In this way, it can
broaden the gains for each country
from global integration. In this sense,
regional and global integration are
complements, not substitutes. Without global integration, the benefits
from regional cooperation would be
small or negative, as was true of many
past regional agreements. But without regional integration, the benefits
from globalization might simply be
unattainable for some countries,
because they cannot compete on a
global scale by themselves.
For many countries, especially in
Africa where global export market
shares have fallen, the benefits of
global integration have been ephemeral. Global integration is sometimes
seen as risky, and progress in the
Doha Round on several issues central
to developing countries, such as agricultural trade, has been slow. In the
same vein, past regional cooperation
also did not yield significant benefits,
and many regional agreements fell
apart. Those experiences also highlighted the uneven gains across large
and small countries in a neighbor-

hood, which affected the long-term
stability of the agreement and the
willingness to respond to unexpected
events. With many previous efforts
at regional integration having failed,
the pursuit of further regional agreements has drawn considerable skepticism in development circles.
This chapter argues that, given
current conditions, this skepticism
is misplaced. Instability stemming
from macroeconomic policy and
poor governance is far less common
today than even a decade ago, so it
is less likely that a country will import
problems from its neighbor even if
their economies are integrated. And
with the decline in transport costs and
expansion in global trade, the benefits
from successful export-led growth are
higher than ever. To compete, countries are now more willing to harmonize their policies and institutions with
others, so the prospects for regional
cooperation have grown substantially.
That may be one reason why, in June
2006, 56 regional, 49 regional extension (cooperation between a regional
agreement and an individual country),
5 superregional (cooperation between
two or more regional agreements),
and fully 118 bilateral agreements
were signed or initiated under the
World Trade Organization (WTO). By
acting under the global rules of the
game, these agreements strive to recognize and avoid tradeoffs between
regional and global integration.
Source: WDR 2009 team.

munity can support these integration
efforts through coordinated incentives.
East, Central, and West Africa fall into
the third category. Resource-poor coastal
countries in these neighborhoods have
been the poorest growth performers in the
world relative to other world regions.2 For
them, the Report suggests a pact involving
regional governments and the international
community to improve social services and
human capital in lagging countries and to

10/8/08 3:40:26 PM

262

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

improve infrastructure in leading countries
where takeoff is most likely. This should be
augmented by preferential access to developed country markets for regional exports.
In return, both leading and lagging countries in these “natural neighborhoods”
would allow freer intraregional movements
of labor, capital, goods, and services.
Today’s developing countries, as latecomers, face a stark choice: stay divided
and lose ground, or become winners without borders.

Regional integration to scale
up supply, global integration
to scale up demand
Some countries, such as Chile, Mauritius,
and the well-known East Asian tigers, have
integrated globally without much cooperation within their world region. They
enjoyed significant first-mover advantages.
But many other developing countries have
found this hard to achieve, and some wonder if the emergence of highly competitive
exporters like India and China makes the
likelihood of a successful export-led strategy even lower today.
The counterargument is that the range
of goods in which a country can develop a
comparative advantage has expanded along
with the growth in global trade. Intermediate goods and services, more tradable and
traded, provide developing countries with
a broader range of diversification opportunities than before.3 Empirical evidence
suggests this is true even for Sub-Saharan
Africa.4 Across individual countries within
each of nine Sub-Saharan African neighborhoods, imports in the previous year
of intermediate goods from neighbors are
positively correlated with total exports in
the current year. As the level of intermediate imports grows larger and crosses a
threshold, this effect becomes noticeably
stronger.
These findings show that higher exports
occur when countries cooperate regionally
(in terms of scale economies, greater factor mobility, and lower transport costs)
as well as integrating globally. Regional
cooperation means that firms in neighboring countries can produce final goods more
cheaply (by building international supply

WDR09_17_Ch09.indd 262

chains) than they can by relying on suppliers in one country alone (see box 9.2).
Global integration provides the demand
and incentive to develop such efficient
regional supply networks. This combination of regional and global integration has
produced successful developers in today’s
rich neighborhoods.
Plant data add further detail to aggregate econometric fi ndings.5 Firms exporting to regional markets are hurt more by
power outages and inefficient border procedures than are firms exporting to global
markets, although fi rms exporting timesensitive products such as textiles to global
markets are hurt by inefficient borders as
well. The efficiency of firms dictates where
they sell their products: the least efficient
sell only in domestic markets, others serve
both regional and domestic markets, and
the most efficient are involved in domestic,
regional, and international markets.6
A successful integration policy will concentrate economic activities in places with
better access to markets and inputs, whether
subnational, national, or regional. Integration could lead to income divergence in a
regional neighborhood for a while, before
successive waves of lagging countries catch
up with the leading countries as growth
spills over to the neighborhood. When the
integration process is market driven, as in
East Asia, production factors will relocate
and promote convergence in country per
capita incomes within the neighborhood
(see chapter 3). But when it is institution
driven, as in most developing neighborhoods today, political economy challenges
can become major concerns.7

Regional and global integration
imply tradeoffs
Regional integration agreements, complex
to negotiate, implement, and maintain,
are intensive in the use of administrative
resources. Efforts to align regional institutions through such agreements can come at
the expense of domestic administration and
unilateral liberalization that can determine
a country’s integration with the rest of the
world. Regional agreements also prevent
countries from pursuing more rapid global
integration, when some members within a
region want to move more slowly.

10/8/08 3:40:26 PM

263

Winners without Borders

B OX 9.2

Diversifying production through regional cooperation

Diversifying an economy is no easy task.
Hidalgo, Barabasi, and Haussman (2007)
show that the current export structure
of a country determines how easy it will
be to diversify its production base over
higher-value products. They use the
metaphor of a forest representing the
product space (the same for all countries
in the world). Each tree is a product, and
firms are monkeys that can climb higher
on a tree to improve their value added
(intensive diversification) or jump to
another tree with higher value (extensive
diversification).
Developing country firms find it easiest
to grow through intensive diversification, which builds on capabilities they
already possess. The alternative, required
at higher incomes or in response to even
lower-cost competitors, is to jump to
higher value trees. Even if a country is
lucky enough to have such higher value
trees close to its production base, the
jump remains costly and risky. It may
require physical infrastructure, specific
know-how, knowledge of the tastes and
standards in the targeted markets, and
easy and cheap access to specific inputs.
Haussman and Rodrik (2003) called these
initial investment needs “cost discovery,”
a search by the first firms to explore these
new opportunities. Cost discovery can

be facilitated in several ways. Foreign
direct investment can provide much of
the required information and know-how.
So can learning from one’s neighbors.
Cooperation between neighboring countries can therefore help, providing the
scale attractive for foreign investors and
the access to critical intermediate goods
that makes the leap to a new product less
costly and risky. Cooperation can provide
an outlet for intermediate goods producers who sell to innovating firms elsewhere
in the neighborhood.
When African exports during 1980–
2004 are mapped against a global product space of some 800 products (four-digit
industries), the Central African Economic
and Monetary Community appears to
have only a few options for diversification
(wood and its manufactures). Members
of the East African Community have
more options because their exports are
more diversified (fruits and vegetables,
prepared food, fish, wood and its manufactures, cotton, textiles, low-tech manufactures, metallic products, chemicals,
and minerals). Other countries with similar
production structures have gone on to
diversify into such clusters as cotton, textiles, and garments, which currently enjoy
preferences under the African Growth and
Opportunity Act in the U.S. market.

The regional versus global debate is not
new. It revolves around the welfare implications of potential trade diversion and
trade creation compared with the first-best
welfare- improving effects of unilateral liberalization or multilateralism.8 Yet a “new
regionalism” debate has been launched
with the recent proliferation of free trade
agreements. One side of this debate sees in
regional integration a competitive liberalization process that will ultimately support
global integration.9 The other side sees the
emergence of “spaghetti bowls” impeding
global integration.10
This debate will not be readily concluded. But the lens of the new economic
geography gives it a different perspective.
Some have argued that when physical geography is properly included in trade models,
regional trade agreements can be more

WDR09_17_Ch09.indd 263

Nearly all members of the West African
Economic and Monetary Union can benefit from cooperation in at least seven
product clusters (fruits and vegetables
and their products, wood and its manufactures, cotton, low-tech manufactures,
chemicals, and minerals) to reduce their
overdependence on traditional agricultural exports, such as coffee and cocoa.
Southern Africa Customs Union members, except for South Africa, can gain
significantly more than other unions from
cooperation in natural-resource-based
and manufacturing clusters, because they
have much easier diversification options
driven by the logistics, finance, skills, and
infrastructure that reflect their middleincome status.
By looking at which areas of economic
activity offer the most promise for further
development, countries can focus cooperation on sector-specific infrastructure,
such as common standards, compliance
and metrology systems, and specific curricula to build a skilled labor force and
adapt new technologies. That can serve
as a complement to the general areas of
cooperation in regional infrastructure,
better business regulations, and a strong
judicial systems.
Based on contributions from Vandana Chandra, Jessica Boccardo, and Israel Osorio.

welfare improving than multilateral trade
agreements if intercontinental transport
costs are much higher than intracontinental
trade costs.11 There are also noneconomic
gains to regional integration initiatives,
such as greater peace and security as well as
increased bargaining power in international
forums.12 These noneconomic motives are
sometimes more important than the economic in the decision to sign regional integration agreements.
Regional integration can take many
forms, from formal treaties regulating
many aspects of economic exchange and
cooperation to informal, de facto integration that follows from the private sector–
led deepening of economic ties. This variety
allows for a different dynamic. While global
agreements are comprehensive and rare,
regional agreements can start small and

10/8/08 3:40:26 PM

264

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

move at a pace and scope with which each
party is comfortable. Each region needs to
find the path that allows it to benefit from
both regional and global integration.

Developed neighborhoods provide
useful insights—think big, start small
Successful neighborhoods in Europe, North
America, and Northeast Asia provide three
lessons for the design and implementation
of regional and global integration initiatives: think global, start small, and compensate the least fortunate.
Think global. For all developing neighborhoods, the most important export markets are outside the region. The Republic of
Korea, Mexico, and Romania are fortunate to
be close to one of these large world markets,
but most nations are not. The main goal of
any regional integration process should thus
be to promote sound export-led growth.
Indeed, the success factor of regional integration agreements is “open regionalism,”
setting low external tariffs and suppressing
all the internal ones.13 This is a key difference from the first wave of regionalism in
the 1970s, which simply extended inwardlooking import-substitution policies from
countries to regions.
Start small. Regional integration initiatives do not need to address all issues
immediately. Nor do they need to involve a
whole continent at once. The Latin American and Sub-Saharan experiences in the
1970s show that comprehensive agreements
involving a large number of countries often
remain “paper agreements.”14 The European Union started with a narrowly focused
agreement—the European Coal and Steel
Community (see “Geography in Motion,
Overcoming Division in Western Europe”).
The North American Free Trade Agreement
(NAFTA) started with a free trade agreement for automobiles, between the United
States and Canada.15 East Asia’s regionalization accelerated in the 1980s, with Japanese
multinationals setting up manufacturing
export platforms across the region. Often
regional integration can start without a formal agreement of any kind but with a statement of intent for strategic cooperation that
gives firms comfort that any disputes will
be resolved quickly and fairly.

WDR09_17_Ch09.indd 264

Regional integration implies complementary policy actions by participating
countries. The larger the number of participants, the more complex the coordination, with a higher risk of failure. Specific
agreements based on country interest can
build variable-geometry regional integration in which countries (or areas within
countries as with the “growth triangle” in
East Asia) deepen their cooperation at their
own speed. Such cooperation on trade and
nontrade issues can gradually build a stronger neighborhood. This does not preclude
specific continentwide initiatives to carry
out projects with high fi xed costs, such as
launching and maintaining a satellite.
Compensate the least fortunate.
Regional integration can produce winners and losers across countries—at least
in the short term.16 If two countries with
different domestic infrastructure integrate,
the country with the better infrastructure will attract more industrial activities,
which may deepen differences in income
and employment.17 Building a sustainable
neighborhood of countries with different
endowments is thus helped by a compensation mechanism to ensure equitable sharing of the gains from integration. In the
EU, rich members subsidize infrastructure
development in poorer member nations. In
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations
(ASEAN), richer member countries have
programs specifically designed to assist
poorer member countries—the Integrated
ASEAN Initiative. Some regions also have
bilateral aid programs for their poorer
neighbors.
One approach to compensation is pooling customs revenues collected in customs
unions and redistributing them according to each member’s development needs.
The West African Economic and Monetary
Union (WAEMU) adopted a common external tariff in 2000, and introduced a 1-percent
levy on all third-party imports to build a
compensation fund. By September 2006,
$500 million had been collected and shared.
Côte d’Ivoire and Senegal, the richest members of WAEMU, contributed 60 percent of
the funds but received only 12 percent. Such
transfers are politically feasible if the wealthier countries realize that they will benefit in

10/8/08 3:40:27 PM

265

Winners without Borders

the long run if their neighborhood prospers.
Revenue-sharing initiatives are strengthened
by the involvement of a developed country as
an external partner willing to subsidize the
process. The Economic Partnership Agreements (EPAs) currently being negotiated
between the EU and African, Caribbean,
and Pacific countries are examples (see box
9.3).

Building integrated
neighborhoods: a framework
The “thickness” of country borders is a selfimposed obstacle to development, with isolation increasing the economic distance to
markets (see chapter 3). On top of division,
some neighborhoods have small countries
whose local markets are simply not large

B OX 9.3

•

Institutional cooperation can address coordination problems within neighborhoods
and foster greater scale economies.

Economic partnership agreements between the EU and African, Caribbean, and Pacific
countries can be made better

Until 2007 the EU granted nonreciprocal
trade preferences to African, Caribbean,
and Pacific (ACP) countries. This policy
did not comply with the WTO principle of
most-favored-nation treatment, but got a
temporary waiver that expired in December 2007. The economic partnership agreements (EPAs) between the EU and the ACP
countries are a new approach to promoting trade and achieving more general
development goals at the same time.
In 2003 the EU started negotiating EPAs
with six self-defined ACP regions: the
Caribbean (CARIFORUM), Central Africa
(CEMAC), Southeast Africa (ESA), West
Africa (ECOWAS), Southern Africa (SADC),
and the Pacific.
At the core of the EPAs are regional
trade agreements between the EU and
each of the six regions. The export structure from these regions to the EU is heterogeneous, often reflecting dependency
on just a few products. But the EPAs are
broader in scope. They will extend 100
percent duty-free and quota-free market
access into the EU from each region (with
simplified EU rules of origin) while permitting ACP countries to open their markets
to a lesser extent (on average 80 percent
within 15 years).

WDR09_17_Ch09.indd 265

enough to trigger or sustain industrialization,
or that lack the capabilities to diversify and
advance up the value chain. Different countries thus face different problems that require
different policy responses to integrate them
into the global economy. Integration happens
largely through private activity in trade and
factor mobility. But most of the institutions
or infrastructure needed to connect a region
to the global economy are public goods,
requiring collective action to overcome coordination problems and externalities.
Three types of policy instruments can be
used to pursue regional integration. They
also help with global integration.

The goal is ambitious. The EPAs give
incentives to ACP countries to increase
regional trade and cooperation, unlike
the previous arrangements that favored
a hub-and-spoke structure, discouraging interaction with neighbors. And
while the previous trade preferences
were determined unilaterally by the EU,
the EPAs are jointly negotiated. Understandably, some countries are unwilling
to cooperate on issues in which they
might lose. But the EU can provide
incentives—like aid—to help overcome
such differences.
Experience shows, however, that
(North-South) trade liberalization alone
does not promote economic development. So the EPAs try to improve the
coherence between trade and development. Besides trade in goods, the
EPAs include trade in services as well as
investment, public procurement, and
competition law. Although the agreements on trade of goods and services
are about mutual—though asymmetric—trade liberalization, the traderelated issues follow another route.
They aim to support regional integration by common regional regulation,
harmonization, and implementation,

thus improving political and economic
stability and creating a better business
and investment climate.
One of the most difficult issues is the
expected loss in tariff revenues, which
are, on average, about 2 percent of gross
domestic product (GDP) for Sub-Saharan
countries. But for some, the loss can be 4
to 6 percent of GDP, a sizable fraction of
the public purse. A phased reduction in
tariffs is designed to mitigate big declines
in government revenues. Over the long
term, the lost tariff revenues need to be
replaced through reforms of domestic tax
and tax administration. A more radical
approach would be for the EU to provide
budget support to the most affected
countries over a predetermined transition
period.
Another issue involves complicated
rules of origin that need to be simplified
and liberalized. Technical assistance is
also needed to enable developing countries to fulfill EU standards and stimulate
a supply response to enhanced market
access. “Aid-for-trade” programs provide
resources for such efforts.

Contributed by Sebastian Vollmer.

10/8/08 3:40:27 PM

266

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

•

•

Regional infrastructure, strategically
linking the neighborhood to the leading world markets, can reduce transport
costs.
Coordinated incentives involving all the
neighborhood’s stakeholders and donors
from the leading world markets can promote factor mobility and converging
living standards between leading and
lagging countries in the neighborhood.

Institutional cooperation
Behind-the-border reforms. Institutional
cooperation—such as mutual recognition
agreements on technical and business procedures, adoption of international standards, and macroeconomic convergence
frameworks—expands the size of regional
markets, supporting scale economies.
Indeed, domestic and foreign firms assess
investment opportunities and related government policies and the business environment—such as property rights, regulation,
taxes, fi nance, infrastructure, corruption,
and macroeconomic stability—as part
of a package that determines a country’s
attractiveness for investment.18 Another
part is the quality of the legal system,
which increases equity investments and
firm sizes.19 These effects spill over even to
countries with better institutional endowments in leading world markets. The less

Table 9.1

Few regional agreements provide for full mobility of labor

Degree of mobility
stipulated

Agreement

Full labor mobility

European Union, Agreement on the European Economic Area,
European Free Trade Association, Australia–New Zealand
Closer Economic Relations, Economic Community of West
African States

Market access for certain
groups

Caribbean Community, North American Free Trade Agreement,
Europe agreements, Group of Three, and Canada-Chile, U.S.Singapore, U.S.-Chile, Japan-Singapore Free Trade Agreements

Based on GATS mode 4,
with additional provisions
or limitations

ASEAN Free Trade Area, Euro-Med Association Agreements,
New Zealand–Singapore Closer Economic Partnership,
Southern Common Market agreement, and EU-Mexico,
EU-Chile, MERCOSUR, U.S.-Jordan Free Trade agreements

No effective provisions for
labor mobility

Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation Forum, South Asian
Association for Regional Cooperation, Central European
Free Trade Agreement, and Common Market for Eastern and
Southern Africa

Source: World Bank 2004a, updated by the WDR 2009 team.
Note: ASEAN = Association of Southeast Asian Nations; GATS = General Agreement on Trade in Services;
MERCOSUR = Southern Common Market.

WDR09_17_Ch09.indd 266

attractive the neighborhood of a country,
the less attractive the individual country,
particularly when its local market is tiny.
Now that tariff preferences have fallen,
behind-the-border barriers are more important determinants of the pattern of trade.
And by aligning domestic and international
standards and institutions, a neighborhood
can improve its attractiveness for foreign
direct investment (FDI) and increase its
opportunities for trade, particularly important given the need to connect to regional
and global production networks and markets. For instance, the crisis facing the fishprocessing sector in Kenya in the 1990s
would have been less severe if raw and semiprocessed fish providers in Kenya, Tanzania,
and Uganda had all cooperated to adjust to
EU hygiene standards.20 Many countries
in Sub-Saharan Africa are now aiming for
such cooperation.21
At-the-border policies. Facilitating the
flow of capital, labor, and intermediate
inputs is a precondition for cross-border
production networks. The WTO provides
a framework for such liberalization that
permits the scope of agreements to vary.
Almost all new regional trade agreements
include provisions on service liberalization,
but some of these services are embodied in
people and require corresponding agreement on labor mobility, on which there is
little uniformity (see table 9.1).22 Movement
of labor raises economic and political concerns that appear to be far higher than for
traded goods or investments, so few agreements provide the kind of mobility required
for countries and people to benefit fully.
Financial and monetary cooperation
improves capital mobility and increases a
region’s attractiveness to FDI, especially for
small countries.23 Indeed, small fi nancial
markets tend to be less competitive and less
efficient because they cannot exploit the substantial economies of scale in financial markets. Some market segments may be missing,
and small markets are less able to diversify
investments and operational risks. The
regulatory structure tends to be more costly
and of lower quality in small markets, and
ancillary services such as credit information
are more difficult to maintain. Regional and
global trade in financial services is the best

10/8/08 3:40:27 PM

267

Winners without Borders

way to cope with being small—by opening
national markets to foreign financial intermediaries, by fully or partially integrating with a regional fi nancial system, and
by gradually opening national markets to
international capital flows. The benefits of
regional financial integration increase as a
group of countries moves toward a single
currency, a single central bank, and a single
licensing and regulatory system for financial
services firms.24 But such integration also
reduces the policy flexibility in responding
to shocks.
Efforts beyond borders. Developing
countries, particularly the landlocked,
are hurt by high transport costs due to
expensive and unreliable freight services.
They have overregulated transport sectors,
inefficient logistics services, oligopolistic
freight forwarders, as well as roadblocks
and demands for bribes along international
corridors.25 Each day a product is delayed
before being shipped is estimated to translate into an increase in the distance to its
trading partners by 70 kilometers, reducing its trade volume by 1 percent.26 Landlocked countries, in particular, would enjoy
greater exports if their neighbors improved
the quality of their transport logistics and
customs procedures: it is estimated that a
one standard deviation improvement in a
landlocked country’s logistics together with
one standard deviation improvement in its
neighbors’ logistics would raise the landlocked country’s exports by 74 percent.27
Beyond-the-border institutional reforms
facilitating trade and transport in a neighborhood can greatly increase the efficiency
and reliability of logistics chains. Central
Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa, whose international competitiveness is seriously affected
by high transport costs, are now exploring
corridor approaches that have worked well
elsewhere, as in Southeastern Europe.28
In 1998 six countries asked for World
Bank support in designing a regional program of trade and transport facilitation in
Southeast Europe. By 2004 eight countries
were involved: Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, FYR Macedonia,
Moldova, Romania, and Serbia and Montenegro. The initiative reduces transport
costs, fights corruption, and helps customs

WDR09_17_Ch09.indd 267

administrations gradually align their procedures with EU standards. The goals are to
reduce the processing time for traders and
transporters, reduce facilitation payments,
reduce corruption related to international
transport and trade, and improve the effectiveness of controls and antismuggling
efforts. The results provide an encouraging precedent for replicating and scaling up
regional trade elsewhere.

Regional infrastructure
Regional transport infrastructure reduces
the economic distance between trading
partners, both within the neighborhood
and between the neighborhood and leading
world markets. Electricity, water, telephone
lines, and Internet access all raise productivity but are severely inadequate in many
developing regions (see table 9.2). Many
countries could benefit by coordinating
and cooperating in infrastructure provision. Hydropower development launched
in 1997 by Mali, Mauritania, and Senegal
lowered costs and improved access, reliability, and quality of electricity supply.29 The
East Caribbean telecommunications project, implemented in 1998, increased access
to telecom services, reduced prices, and
increased employment opportunities.

Table 9.2 Sub-Saharan Africa, South Asia, and the Middle East and North Africa are most
affected by unreliable infrastructure, East Asia the least
World regions
EAP

ECA

LAC

MNA

SAR

SSA

OECD

19.4

9.3

32.9

53.7

56.3

43.8

9.7

Number of electrical
outages (days)

9.3

14.0

17.8

46.1

121.5

56.4

1.5

Value lost due to electrical
outages (% of sales)

2.5

3.1

3.6

4.2

5.6

5.7

2.3

Number of water supply
failures (days)

3.5

7.5

14.5

41.7

12.0

37.2

0.3

Delay in obtaining a mainline
telephone connection (days)

15.8

13.4

45.1

49.9

66.3

58.4

9.0

Firms using the Web in
interaction with clients/
suppliers (%)

23.7

56.7

40.9

34.2

29.2

20.4

80.2

Delay in obtaining an
electrical connection (days)

Source: World Bank ICA database.
Note: EAP = East Asia and the Pacific; ECA = Europe and Central Asia; LAC = Latin America and the Caribbean;
MNA = Middle East and North Africa; SAR = South Asia Region; SSA = Sub-Saharan Africa; OECD =
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.

10/8/08 3:40:27 PM

268

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Regional infrastructure is an important
part of regional integration, but it often
requires considerable outside financial support because the upfront costs can be high.
Cross-border project preparation is complex, and individual countries may not have
local capacity to conceptualize the technical
design and to build a consensus.30 And the
legal and regulatory framework to facilitate
the provision of cross-border infrastructure
is often lacking. All these constraints can
prevent promising regional infrastructure
projects from getting to the bankable stage.
Three types of regional infrastructure and
related services enhance scale economies, factor mobility, and trade between countries.
Productivity-enhancing regional infrastructure. Power, mobile phones, Internet
connectivity, and major trunk roads can all
generate revenue through fees. The productivity increases from these infrastructure
services translate into a high willingness
to pay. Private firms will provide regional
infrastructure when it is profitable—as
with the South Atlantic 3 (SAT3) marine
cable connecting West Africa to the global
fiber optic network, or the Regional African
Satellite Communications Organization
(RASCOM) public-private partnership to
provide satellite telecommunications coverage in Africa. Regional cooperation can
provide a sound regulatory framework
that, for example, permits free access of

neighboring countries to the backbone
infrastructure and free entry by firms into
national markets. But the rapid spread of
mobile phone coverage in Africa still leaves
out many areas (see map 9.1).
Mobility-enhancing regional infrastructure. Cooperation in higher education and
training can not only increase the endowment of skilled workers but also enhance
labor mobility as students from different
countries establish cross-country networks.31
French cooperation and the EU Commission
sponsor a network of three statistical schools
in Abidjan (Ecole Nationale Supérieure
de Statistique et d’Economie Appliquée,
ENSEA), Dakar (Ecole Nationale d’Economie
Appliqué, ENEA), and Yaoundé (Institut
Sous-regional de Statistique et d’Economie
Appliqué, ISSEA), training highly qualified
statisticians for French-speaking African
private and public enterprises.32 Recognizing the importance of mobility-enhancing
regional infrastructures, a high-level panel
of the African Development Bank has proposed centers of excellence in research, tertiary education, and vocational training in
collaboration with the private sector.33
Trade-enhancing regional infrastructure. Good transport infrastructure reduces
transport costs, which in turn increases
trade flows.34 Some observers have argued
that there is little potential for intraregional
trade within developing neighborhoods

Map 9.1 Mobile phone coverage has spread rapidly in Africa
Global System for Mobile communications network coverage

January 1999

March 2002

September 2006

Source: Buys and others 2008.

WDR09_17_Ch09.indd 268

10/8/08 3:40:27 PM

269

Winners without Borders

because the small size of economies will not
create significant trade flows.35 If so, improving the quality of regional roads would have
no impact on intraregional trade. But recent
studies suggest otherwise.
Trade models show that regional investments to pave all the unpaved interstate
roads would increase the intraregional trade
of West African countries threefold—and
boost the region’s trade with the rest of the
world.36 Upgrading the main highway network in Sub-Saharan Africa could expand
overland trade by about $250 billion over 15
years, with major benefits for the rural poor,
while requiring about $20 billion for initial
upgrades and $1 billion annually for maintenance.37 In Central Asia road upgrades
could increase trade by half, exceeding the
expected gains from tariff reductions or
trade facilitation programs of comparable
scope. Total intraregional trade in Eastern
Europe and Central Asia could be increased
30 percent by upgrading roads in just Albania, Hungary, and Romania.38

Coordinated incentives
Coordinated incentives can address market
failures and disputes between countries in a
regional association. The Central American
Common Market, created in 1960 by El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua,
faced periodic complaints about redistributing benefits to Honduras and Nicaragua.
The agreement collapsed in 1969 following
conflict between El Salvador and Honduras.
Some studies suggest that the underlying

reason for the collapse was that El Salvador
gained much more from regional cooperation because of its better infrastructure.39 In
1977 the East African Community of Kenya,
Tanzania, and Uganda also collapsed after
disagreements over the benefits that would
be received from common regional services
such as airline, harbors, and telecommunications—as well as over ideological differences.40 Sound compensation mechanisms and
better communication about longer-term
gains for all participants can reduce the risk
of failure of such initiatives.41
Consider a taxonomy that incorporates
the three essential properties of public
goods: nonrivalry, nonexcludability, and
aggregated contributions (see table 9.3).42

•

•

•

Nonrivalry implies that several groups or
individuals can consume the good without diminishing its value. Clean air and
water are common examples.
Nonexcludability means that no one can
be prevented from consuming the good.
There is an incentive to leave the cost of
provision to a third party.
Aggregated contributions relate to resource
pooling to finance public goods. Commonly, the willingness to contribute
decays over time.

Each of these properties requires a coordinated response or some mechanism for equitably matching benefits and costs, or else the
good will be underprovided. The quantity
and quality of the public good both depend
on member contributions. In some instances,

Table 9.3 Regional “club goods” can easily be provided because costless exclusion is possible
Regional public goods, types, and examples
Impure public goods

Pure public goods (nonrival,
nonexcludable)

Goods for which exclusion is easy

Shared public services

Each contribution has the same impact on
the quality and quantity

A clean lake

Transnational park

Preserving the rain forest

Countries more interested in the good can
contribute more

Curbing the spread of HIV/AIDS

Power grid

Eliminating transnational
terrorist threats

Contribution of weakest member
determines the quantity and quality

Implementing international financial
standards

Airport hub-spoke network

Preventing and mitigating
natural disasters

Contributions of weaker members
determines the quantity and quality

Forestalling the spread of pests

Transport infrastructure

Providing Internet
connectivity

Contribution of leading countries
determines the quantity and quality

Eradication of a disease

Satellite launch facility

Regional peacekeeping

Contribution of strongest member
determines the quantity and quality

Discovering an effective treatment

Biohazard facility

Agricultural research and
bioprospecting

Impact of aggregated contributions

Sources: Sandler 2002, adapted by the WDR 2009 team.

WDR09_17_Ch09.indd 269

10/8/08 3:40:29 PM

270

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

each member is equally important. In others, the public good depends on the weakest
or strongest member, or some combination.
This taxonomy suggests that the nature of
regional cooperation varies depending on
the goal.
When the regional public good is sensitive to the performance of the weaker members, as in a hub-and-spoke airport network,
the challenge for the other members is to
raise the performance of the weaker links
to an acceptable standard. This can be done
through cross-country subsidies, as in the
EU structural funds. In poor neighborhoods, foreign aid may be the only feasible
way to ensure the provision of such public
goods. If the good depends on the bestperforming member of the neighborhood,
such as targeted agricultural research, the
weaker members may be asked to contribute to stronger members, or foreign assistance can facilitate its provision.43
Trust is especially important in regional
cooperation. For the waters of the Nile, the
Arab Republic of Egypt and Sudan, two
countries that were culturally and politically closer, built the Aswan High Dam
near their common border instead of cooperating with Ethiopia, where a dam might
have been more efficient for the electricity
and water needs of all three countries.44
International organizations can help build
trust, as in the Aral Sea Basin rehabilitation. Another example is the “development
diplomacy” used to resolve the Indus River
Basin dispute between India and Pakistan,
with the World Bank facilitating cooperation. This diplomacy was recognized by the
then–World Bank President Eugene Black
as “the most important thing the Bank has
ever done, by far.”45
Specific regional agreements can get
things started, but they can also lead to
multiple and at times overlapping agreements, weakening coordination. Many
developing regions need to rationalize their
regional economic communities and clarify relations with river basin or power pool
organizations.46 Broader regional agreements can foster trust, provide an institutional framework for compensation that
facilitates bargaining, and allow for more
effective sanctions.47 The Southern African

WDR09_17_Ch09.indd 270

Development Community (SADC), for
instance, promoted the Southern Africa
Power Pool to take advantage of the distribution of power sources in the region.
The Central American Electricity Connection System was initiated in 2005 under the
umbrella of the Central American Common Market (CACM). So an umbrella
agreement can spawn smaller agreements,
or small agreements can be consolidated
into umbrella agreements. The path is a
tactical choice.
In the same vein, there is a choice
between starting with aggregate political
agreements, as in the EU enlargement, or
starting with economic ties, as in East Asia,
with ASEAN+3. Both approaches have
seen success and failure. The United Arab
Republic joining Egypt and Syria in 1958
foundered in part because of its limited
economic advantages. The First East African Community started in 1967 as an economic grouping, but collapsed 10 years later
because of political divisions between the
major countries. It has since been revived,
but the forces for economic and political
union remain divided.

The geography of regional integration
Looking at the world’s neighborhoods
through the lens of market access highlights
the role of the three major world markets:
Europe, North America, and Northeast
Asia, rich neighborhoods where most of
the world GDP is clustered (see chapter 3).
Proximity to these markets, the thickness
of borders, and the fragmentation of world
regions reveal the potential market access
of all countries (see map 9.2).48
Adding up the country scores for potential market access produces three broad
types of developing regions:

•

Type 1 countries are in regions close to large
world markets, where the market access
score is dominated by proximity to the
densest areas in the world. They include
those on the periphery of the two largest markets: North America and Western
Europe. The neighborhoods are Central America and the Caribbean, Eastern
Europe, and the Middle East and North
Africa.

10/8/08 3:40:29 PM

Winners without Borders

271

Map 9.2 Density, distance, and division combine to determine access to markets
Real market access, relative to the United States in 2003

Real market
access relative to the
United States, 2003
< 0.040
0.040–0.090
0.091–0.240
0.241–0.910
> 0.910
No data

Source: Mayer 2008 for this Report.
Note: To compute potential market access: Each country is assigned a score for the size of its own market (real GDP) and the size of international markets with which it can trade.
This is computed by weighting the GDP of other countries by the inverse of a measure that combines physical distance, transport costs, and barriers to trade to show how difficult
it is to access these markets. The measure, which is expressed relative to the market access of the United States, essentially combines all three spatial dimensions of density,
distance, and division into a composite of potential market access. This map is a complement to the map showing foreign market access in box 6.6.

•

For these countries, the major problem is division between themselves and
major markets. The main instruments
for integration will be institutional: formal regional trade agreements, more
limited sector-specific agreements (on
labor mobility or natural resource-sharing), and harmonization of standards
and regulations—all implemented with
or without formal regional bodies.
Type 2 countries are in regions with big
neighbors far from world markets. They
include the neighborhoods of the developing world’s giants—Brazil, China,
India, and South Africa. Although these
are potentially large markets, growth has
not yet been sustained long enough and
many domestic distortions remain.49
Integration with them runs a risk—to
different degrees in different parts of the
world—of exposing a neighbor to volatility and of importing inefficiency from
the large neighbors’ domestic structures.
But because their market potential is
attractive to enterprises in Europe and

WDR09_17_Ch09.indd 271

North America, they can serve as a conduit to accessing markets everywhere. In
some regions, like those in South Asia,
political considerations also preclude
economic integration of all the countries
in the neighborhood.
These countries have moderate
market access potential (see map 9.3).
Their distance from major markets
holds down their overall score, but the
presence of large developing country
neighbors can offset this score to some
degree. Brazil, China, Nigeria, the Russian Federation, and South Africa are
examples of large emerging economies
that add considerably to the market
access scores of their immediate neighbors. For countries in these neighborhoods, division is compounded by
distance. Appropriate instruments
include institutional and infrastructure development, including regionally
shared utilities, transport corridors
and hubs, and a range of other regional
public goods.

10/8/08 3:40:29 PM

272

Map 9.3

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Potential access to major world markets distinguishes the developing world’s regions

Regions with
High-income countries
Countries close to world markets
Large countries far from world markets
Small countries far from world markets

Source: WDR 2009 team.

•

Type 3 countries are in regions far from
world markets, without a big neighbor.
They make up the “bottom billion”
described in Collier (2007) and consist of Central Africa, Central Asia and
Caucasus, East Africa, the small Pacific
Islands, and West Africa. Many of these
countries are falling behind because
they are trapped in conflict, suffer from
a natural resource curse, are landlocked
with bad neighbors, or are small with
bad governance.
A range of countries, mostly small,
have low market access potential. Having to contend with being far from major
markets, these countries face division,
distance, and low economic density. In
addition to institutional and infrastructure instruments, they need coordinated
incentives for regional integration. The
incentives include transfers from customs unions and other revenue sources,
direct aid, and preferential market
access, such as relaxed rules of origin.

All three types of countries have much
lower market access potential than rich
countries, implying considerable potential
for more effective economic integration. But
their persistent divisions from major world

WDR09_17_Ch09.indd 272

markets pose barriers to the beneficial flows
of people, goods, capital, and ideas.
For each of these country types, the economic integration strategies and priorities
will differ (see table 9.4). As the potential
for market access becomes lower, the complexity of the integration problem becomes
greater, and a broader range of instruments
is required to manage integration effectively. For each dimension of the integration challenge, this chapter proposes an
instrument for integration—“an I for a D.”
Some countries do not fit neatly into
any of these three types, such as Chile and
Russia. Chile is a relatively small country
far from major markets. But it has grown
by exporting to world markets without
significant regional integration. Russia is
another special case because of its peculiar
economic geography that spans eleven time
zones, connected to Europe at its most populated and most developed western part,
and connected with Northeast Asia through
the inhospitable and sparsely populated
Siberia.50 One part of Russia, and some of
the former Soviet republics with political
and economic ties, could be considered a
neighborhood with a big country far from
world markets. But given that its economic
center is in the western part, Russia is more

10/8/08 3:40:30 PM

273

Winners without Borders

Table 9.4

An instrument per dimension—a simple framework for regional integration
Region or neighborhood
Close to world markets

With big countries far from world markets

Small countries far from world markets

World neighborhoods

Central America and Caribbean,
North Africa, Middle East

South America, Southern Africa, East Asia,
South Asia

Central Africa, East Africa, West Africa,
Central Asia and Caucasus, small Pacific
Islands

Dimensions of the regional
integration challenge

International division (1-D)

Regional division, economic distance (2-D)

International division, economic distance,
low density (3-D)

What policy instruments
should facilitate

Integration with large nearby
markets

Regional integration
Regional and global connectivity

Regional integration
Regional and global connectivity
Regional compensation mechanisms

Agreements on trade and factor
mobility within region and with
large markets nearby

Agreements on trade and factor mobility
within region and with large markets
nearby
Regional provision of public goods

Agreements on trade and factor mobility
within region
Shared facilities (research, central banks,
regulatory bodies)

Transport corridors connecting to large
regional economy
Regional power grids, telecoms, water
management

Hub-and-spoke infrastructure
Regional power grids, telecoms, water
management

Priority instruments
Institutions

Infrastructure

Incentives

Subsidized human development
investments in lagging countries and areas
Productive investments in leading
countries and areas
Preferential market access

Source: WDR 2009 team.

appropriately considered close to world
markets.
Russia also highlights the point that the
concept of market potential is not countrywide but more spatially specific. It is convenient to measure it as a single number
for all localities within a country, but many
developing economies have areas where
markets in other countries are potentially
more accessible than their own domestic
markets because of poor local infrastructure. Northern areas of Pakistan are closer
to Afghanistan and western China than to
the major markets in Karachi and Lahore.
Medan in Indonesia is closer to Penang in
Malaysia than it is to its own capital city.
The principles of economic integration in
the real world and the use of the instruments can be applied as readily at the subnational level as at the country level (see
table 9.4).

The framework in action
What concrete steps can countries take
toward regional integration to build better neighborhoods and increase global
competitiveness?

WDR09_17_Ch09.indd 273

Integration options for countries close
to world markets
Market access is essential for growth,
and proximity is an asset for just-in-time
production. Many examples in car manufacturing and in segments of the garment industry demand short-term repeat
orders. Perishable goods (fresh fruits and
vegetables) are easier to export to nearby
markets. Tradable services—such as marketing, research, and complex information
technology tasks—benefit from frequent
face-to-face interaction, easier if the client
is nearby. Countries close to world markets
thus have an intrinsic advantage in connecting to markets, suppliers, and ideas.
Conversely, for the wealthy world regions—
Europe, North America, and Northeast
Asia—neighboring developing regions
expand their growth potential as domestic markets mature, while also delivering
lower-cost platforms for their firms. There
are mutual gains to regional cooperation
and ongoing processes to further deepen
integration.
The Euro-Mediterranean Forum is a
long-standing coordination mechanism

10/8/08 3:40:30 PM

274

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

between Europe, the Middle East, and
North Africa. The Caribbean Basin has
benefited from privileged access to the U.S.
market through various preferential trade
schemes, including NAFTA, the Caribbean Basin Initiative, and the Dominican
Republic–Central America Free Trade
Agreement (DR-CAFTA). China, Japan,
and the Republic of Korea are intensifying
their relations with Southeast Asian countries through the ASEAN+3 initiative. The
long-term benefits are clear to all sides, but
the short-term risks and adjustment costs
have to be managed.
Institutional reform. The key for countries close to world markets is to undertake
institutional reforms and improve domestic governance to fully integrate with the
large markets nearby. Free trade alone
does not bring the full benefits of integration. Although Turkey has had a free trade
agreement with the EU for many years,
it did not receive significant FDI until it
embarked on major institutional reforms
associated with membership talks. The
policies and governance standards in
countries close to large world markets
have to converge with those in the nearby
high-income region. Indeed, multinational
fi rms are more likely to locate in a country if it has both institutional and physical
connections to a larger market. The large
market nearby also has a strong incentive
to foster sound policy and governance
frameworks in nearby small markets to
ensure the stability of its neighborhood.
These two factors make the coordination
of national policies in neighborhoods close
to large world markets both desirable and
feasible. The prospect of joining the EU
has accelerated the pace of reform in Central Europe. And the prospect of better
access to the U.S. market triggered policy
reforms in Mexico long before NAFTA
took effect.51
Institutional reforms include moving
to a sound macroeconomic environment
that contains inflation and an efficient fiscal system that does not rely on distorted
trade policies for budget revenues. They
also include establishing a sound institutional framework that limits corruption
and improves governance. The Stabilization

WDR09_17_Ch09.indd 274

and Association Agreements between the
EU and the Balkans specify the legal and
regulatory reforms to be undertaken before
joining the EU. The Balkans also have
signed an intraregional free trade agreement, the Central European Free Trade
Agreement (CEFTA), to replace the patchwork of 32 bilateral agreements formerly
governing their intraregional trade. The
new agreement simplifies and harmonizes
rules of origin and extends the trade and
transport facilitation initiative launched
in 2000. The region has also established a
common power market and signed an open
sky agreement with the EU that could boost
tourism.
The Balkan region is close enough to
the EU to permit tight integration of its
companies into pan-European production networks. Governments can facilitate
regional production chains linking their
supply capacity to that of the EU by signing
mutual recognition agreements, conformity assessments, and other trade-related
coordination initiatives. Besides trade promotion, government policies can attract
direct investment by multinationals to
help countries move from agriculture and
basic manufacturing to higher technology
production. In the 1990s El Salvador and
Costa Rica diversified their exports from
traditional products (coffee for El Salvador
and bananas for Costa Rica) by developing export processing zones, tax incentives,
and FDI promotion in high-tech activities.
They more than doubled their exports
in a decade. In Costa Rica and Mexico,
human capital and FDI have jointly stimulated knowledge-intensive manufacturing
activities.52
Small countries usually lack the economic and political weight to bargain
with wealthier regions. But the Caribbean
Regional Negotiating Machinery, created
in 1997, has the goal of formulating and
implementing a joint Caribbean negotiating strategy in international trade forums.53
The countries now have technical specialists to deal with each area of negotiations
in the WTO. The machinery also facilitates
the transition of Caribbean Community
(CARICOM) countries toward a single
market, with a common external tariff as

10/8/08 3:40:31 PM

Winners without Borders

the basis for a common trade policy. And it
has been involved in the negotiations of the
EPA between the EU and CARICOM.
To enter the world market for tradable
accounting and back-office functions,
countries need an efficient telecommunication system and a highly educated workforce. The small countries of the Caribbean
region have pooled resources to establish
the Eastern Caribbean Telecommunications Authority (ECTEL) and the Caribbean Knowledge and Learning Network
(CKLN).
Contrast that with the lack of coordination in the Middle East and North Africa.
The regional economy is based mainly
on oil revenue and cannot create enough
jobs for the 4.2 million people added to
the labor force every year.54 Governments
in the region have started the transition
to manufacturing and services, but the
region’s investment climate is still weak.
The Pan-Arab Free Trade Area (PAFTA)
and the Arab Maghreb Union (AMU) have
had little impact on export performance.
The declining imports from the rest of the
world accompanying the increase in intraPAFTA and intra-AMU exports suggest
that the agreements have been more trade
diverting than trade creating.55 The region
could take greater advantage of its proximity to European markets by increasing
exports of high-value agricultural products, especially in the winter. But agricultural expansion will put pressure on
scarce water resources, so regional agreements for water management and use are
essential. 56

Integration options for countries with big
neighbors but distant from world markets
A large home market gives countries an
advantage in attracting industrial activities. If this market is also well connected
to world markets, this advantage is reinforced. But the second group of countries
is far from world markets. South America
is farther than Central America and the
Caribbean from the U.S. market and even
farther from the EU and Northeast Asian
markets. South Asia is far from Northeast
Asia. Southern Africa is far from all three
large world markets. Countries in these

WDR09_17_Ch09.indd 275

275

distant regions should try to bridge the
gap with world markets by reducing border
barriers, but they suffer from late-mover
disadvantages in major markets. They can
complement their global integration with
efforts to build a stronger regional market
centered on a large neighbor.
The competitive advantage of neighborhoods with big countries is size: large local
markets, abundant human capital, and
substantial remittances. Economic activities generating scale economies—such as
petroleum and coal products, refi neries,
pharmaceuticals, electric and electronic
machinery, iron and steel, instruments,
and nonelectrical machinery—benefit from
being concentrated in leading countries
that have strong agglomeration economies
and better market access.57 Because most
investment in these sectors will go to those
countries, usually the largest in the region,
this creates tensions. The challenges are to
balance political and economic concerns
between leading and lagging countries, to
ensure spillovers of direct and indirect benefits to lagging countries, and to compete
with neighborhoods close to world markets
and such emerging economic powers as
China and Russia.
Meeting these challenges of division and
distance requires institutions to ensure policies and governance that promote trade,
factor mobility, and regional growth—
and infrastructure to connect lagging and
leading countries, link regional economic
centers, and favor regional production networks integrated with the global economy.
Institutional reform to improve regional
integration. The provision of public goods
within a region depends on each member
to a differing degree according to the good
(see table 9.3). Although regional cooperation is sometimes seen as a process to be led
by the strongest member economy, this is
valid only for certain types of regional public goods, perhaps peacekeeping, research,
and specialized shared infrastructure, such
as biohazard facilities or satellite launch
sites. For other types of goods, mainly network related, institutional reforms depend
on the contributions of the weaker members of the region. In these cases, some
assistance to build the capabilities of weaker

10/8/08 3:40:31 PM

276

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

member states can promote overall regional
integration.
Countries grow faster when other countries in their neighborhood are also growing, as several studies confirm.58 For small
countries far from world markets but close
to a large developing country, their best
prospects often lie in growth in the dominant economy. 59 Regional growth centers are one reason for regional economic
groupings and for regional peer surveillance. What happens in one’s neighborhood, good or bad, is too important to one’s
own development prospects to ignore.
Economic advantage may not be the sole
determinant of regional integration prospects. Conflict in South Asia after the end of
the British colonial rule in 1947 prevented
the neighborhood from taking advantage
of its market size, more than a fifth of the
world’s people. It took four decades before
trade volumes between India and Pakistan
passed those of the early 1950s.60 A recent
study estimates that trade between India
and Pakistan would increase by 405 percent if the territorial and political disputes
were resolved.61 In 2004 the two countries
engaged in the “Composite Dialogue” on
peace and security issues, including terrorism and drug trafficking, confidence-building, economic and commercial cooperation,
and friendly exchanges in various fields. On
a broader regional basis, the South Asian
Association for Regional Cooperation is a
forum to discuss development challenges,
such as cooperation in energy production
and water basin management. The burden
is on India, the largest country by far in the
neighborhood, to take the lead in promoting the common agenda.62
Zimbabwe’s political instability since
1998 has dimmed growth prospects in the
Southern African neighborhood. Attempts
to mediate by the African Union and the
SADC have brought limited results. South
Africa, the largest country in the Southern
Africa Customs Union, has a large interest in a stable neighborhood. But the large
rents from natural resources along regional
transport corridors are realized even during confl ict, though most of the benefits
are not shared widely. So economic reasons may be unlikely to provide enough

WDR09_17_Ch09.indd 276

incentives, and the growing political crisis
poses risks to the effectiveness of deeper
regional integration.
Investments in cross-country infrastructure to connect regional markets. In
neighborhoods with big countries distant
from world markets, the costs and benefits
of cross-country infrastructure can differ
between large and small countries in the
neighborhood. Where the distribution of
benefits differs from the proposed sharing
of the costs, there may be underinvestment
in such infrastructure. One example is a
landlocked country such as Bolivia or Paraguay that needs access to the coast to export
its products. International transit agreements guarantee this right to landlocked
countries, but since they are not always
enforced, support from the international
community, or from regional institutions,
may be necessary. Another example is the
potential for better infrastructure to link
India’s northeastern lagging regions and
Bangladesh, Bhutan, and Nepal. The South
Asia Subregional Economic Cooperation
(SASEC) initiative of the Asian Development Bank suggests that such cross-border
cooperation can be beneficial for all these
countries.
Several major cross-border infrastructure projects are being developed. The
Maputo Development Corridor between
South Africa and Mozambique was initiated in 1995 to rehabilitate the primary
infrastructure network along the corridor
(road, rail, port, and border posts), attract
investment in the corridor’s catchment area,
and provide employment opportunities for
disadvantaged populations (see map 9.4).
Its structure, led by South Africa, promotes
fast-track design and implementation of
bankable private investment projects and
public-private partnerships. But it risks failing to address the social service needs of local
communities.63 Some ongoing evaluations of
the corridor show that border-crossing costs
and delays are common impediments, possibly diverting freight to domestic corridors.
This suggests that more formal institutional
cooperation between the countries could
generate additional benefits.
South America has been much more
ambitious in its plans with the Initiative

10/8/08 3:40:31 PM

Winners without Borders

277

Map 9.4 Building regional infrastructure in Southern Africa
The Maputo Development Corridor

Pilgrims Rest
Marble Hall
Lydenburg

AREA OF
MAP

Groblersdal

Tshwane
(Pretoria)

Numbe
Gate
Witrivier
Nelspruit

Waterval Boven
Belfast Machadodorp
Barberton

Middleburg
Witbank

SOUTH AFRICA
Liquid Fuels & Petrochemicals: Sasol

Vereeniging

Secunda

Port of Matola/Maputo
Upgrades, PPP

Maputo
Namaacha

Matola

Hendrina
Chrissiesmeer

Evander

MOZAMBIQUE

Ressano
Garcia
Komatipoort
Malelane
Moamba

Piggs Peak
Tshaneni

Carolina

Ogies

Johannesburg

Joburg to Maputo
Railway line

Sabie

Joburg-Maputo Highway
PPP- BOT completed

Coal-based Power Station
2 transmission lines to
Matola completed

Brits

Graskop
Hazyview

Bethal

Pande-Secunda Gas line
PPP Sasol completed

Standerton

Port

Main railroads

Main roads

Existing gas line

Mbabane
Manzini

Ermelo

Al smelter 500ktpa
BHPB completed

Mpaka

Amsterdam

SWAZILAND

Big Bend
Ponta do
Ouro

Piet Retief

Golela

Source: MINTEK 2007.

for Integration of Regional Infrastructure,
launched in 2000 to promote the integration and modernization of the 12 countries’ physical infrastructure in the energy,
telecommunications, and transport sectors, with the goal of improving global
competitiveness. The initiative focuses on
10 hubs of economic integration across the
continent and on harmonizing regulatory
frameworks. It has identified 40 megaprojects and hundreds of smaller infrastructure improvement projects for potential
fi nancing, with an aggregate cost in the
tens of billions of dollars. Implementation
has been slow, however.

Integration options for countries
distant from world markets and with
small neighbors
Central Asia has the highest proportion
of landlocked countries (see box 9.4) with
many common problems that could be
more effectively tackled through better
regional cooperation. The small Pacific
Islands are the most geographically fragmented, making them “sealocked,” with
limited accessibility to world markets (see
box 9.5). And Africa between the tropics has the largest number of landlocked
countries, many small in population and

WDR09_17_Ch09.indd 277

GDP, most among the world’s poorest,
and far too many prone to confl ict. These
neighborhoods face divisions and barriers
to trade and factor mobility, are distant
from major markets, and lack the density
of economic production to benefit from
agglomeration economies. Collier (2007)
identifies their populations as the “bottom billion.”
The challenge for countries in isolated
neighborhoods is to find ways to integrate
regionally and globally. Their geographic
situation implies that the degree of integration rarely will be as high as in other countries, so the prospects for manufactured
trade are more limited. Conversely, their
isolation provides them with natural protection of their home markets.
Many of these economies have minerals
and other natural resources, such as water,
that can best be exploited on a regional
basis. While there is evidence of growth
spillover from resource-rich countries to
their neighbors in Sub-Saharan Africa,64
regional integration is the key to getting
resource-led growth going and to spreading benefits more broadly. These countries face the triple challenges of division,
distance, and density. Addressing them
will require institutional reform, scaling

10/8/08 3:40:31 PM

278

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

B OX 9.4

Integration in Central Asia

Central Asia has five landlocked countries:
Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan,
Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan. The countries vary in population, type of government, and willingness to cooperate with
each other and the rest of the world. But the
region has established national identities
and institutions, avoided violent conflicts,
established the foundations for marketbased economies, and sustained an economic recovery since the end of the 1990s.
Consider many regional institutions
and initiatives. The Central Asia Cooperation Organization (CACO) comprises
Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Russia,
Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan,
which merged with EURASEC (Eurasian
Economic Community) in 2005. The Central Asia Regional Economic Cooperation
Initiative (CAREC) comprises Azerbaijan,
China, Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic,
Mongolia, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan. The
Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO)
comprises China, Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz

B OX 9.5

Republic, Russia, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan. Then there are the Commonwealth
of Independent States (CIS), the Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO),
the Economic Cooperation Organization
(ECO), and the Special Programme for the
Economies of Central Asia (SPECA).
The sheer number of regional agreements illustrate the problems that can
arise from a disjointed regional approach.
Regional initiatives in Central Asia can
foster integration but add duplication and
complexity to reform. The ongoing WTO
accession for many of these countries
could help, because the WTO has clear
rules on regional trade agreements. Also
needed are trade and transport facilitation
initiatives and behind-the-border reforms
to improve the countries’ attractiveness
to FDI and bolster their global integration.
(Countries with the highest cost of business entry have lower imports, exports,
and FDI inflows.) Regional forums for business communities could offer suggestions

Sources: Linn and Tiomkin 2006; Broadman
2005; United Nations 2005a.

Integrating the small and distant Pacific Islands with world markets

Small island developing states face a
great risk of marginalization in the global
economy because of their small size,
remoteness from large markets, and
vulnerability to economic and natural
shocks. And with their fragile ecosystems,
they are highly vulnerable to domestic
pollution and rising seas. Their share in
global merchandise trade fell from 0.4
percent of world exports of goods in 1980
to 0.2 percent in 2003, while their share
of global services trade remained at 0.7
percent.
One effort to deal with the special
problems of small islands is the South

Pacific Regional Trade and Economic
Cooperation Agreement (SPARTECA), a
nonreciprocal trade agreement for which
Australia and New Zealand offer dutyfree, unrestricted, or concessional access
for almost all products originating from
the countries of the Pacific Islands Forum.
To qualify for preferential access, goods
exported to Australia and New Zealand
must meet the rules of origin set out in
SPARTECA.
The textiles, clothing, and footwear
industry has been a major beneficiary.
But Australia and New Zealand are planning to adopt free trade by 2010, ending

up infrastructure investments, and targeted incentives to encourage regional
integration.
Identifying natural neighborhoods for
institutional reform. Neighborhoods with
small countries distant from world markets need to focus on specific institutional
needs that drive their cooperation. There
is no shortage of international agreements.

WDR09_17_Ch09.indd 278

and feedback on the design and implementation of trade and related policies.
The region loses an estimated 3 percent of GDP annually because of poor
water management. Agreements are also
needed for oil and gas resources to reach
international markets. Many environmental problems remain as a legacy from
the Soviet era, such as radioactivity from
abandoned uranium mines and dangerous remnants of biological and nuclear
tests. Regional organizations could be
rationalized around these key themes of
trade and transport facilitation, water,
energy, and environment management.
They could develop long-term plans for
these issues, bringing civil society and
academic institutions into the fray. The
international community could facilitate
the strengthening of institutions with
clear mandates and targets.

this preferential access to their markets.
Without significant trade preferences,
the Pacific Islands need other ways to
integrate with their large neighbors. More
radical approaches, including consideration of greater labor mobility, could
be required. Children in island families
receiving remittances from overseas family members show strong improvements
in education and health outcomes, suggesting labor mobility could be a powerful driver for longer-term development in
these countries.
Sources: UNCTAD 2002; SPARTECA 1996.

But these agreements are often poorly
implemented, their effectiveness tends to
be low, and they overlap in responsibilities.
The administrative costs of participating
in such agreements are high in relation to
the small benefits, given the small size of
the participating economies. The African
Union has spotlighted the inefficiencies of
13 or 14 overlapping regional economic

10/8/08 3:40:31 PM

Winners without Borders

communities and has called for their
rationalization.65
Regional integration can be rooted in
the traditional economic and sociocultural
interactions within natural neighborhoods,
as building blocks for broader integration.
Trust can be built on a shared language.
East African countries share Swahili, which
has facilitated trade in the neighborhood
for centuries. Free trade was established
between Kenya and Uganda during colonial times.66 West African countries share
the Dioula, Haoussa, and Peuhl cultures,
which, nurtured by Islam, developed an
impressive trade network.67
Interactions between neighboring areas
or cities across countries can also provide
the base for broader integration—a form of
transfrontier regionalism that could follow
European models.68 Sub-Saharan Africa
has many pairs of large cities that are near
each other but separated by a national border (see map 9.5). This carries hidden economic costs that can be overcome through

279

cross-border agreements. Cameroon shares
twin cities with West African neighbors, but
none in its Central African neighborhood.
Similarly, local integration initiatives, such
as growth triangles starting in the early
1980s in East Asia, can take advantage of
the economic complementarities in bordering regions.
A succession of large coastal cities along
the Gulf of Guinea spans from Abidjan in
Côte d’Ivoire to Douala in Cameroon, and
includes Accra, Cotonou, Lagos, and Lomé.
When discussing “growth champions,” it
may be worth keeping in mind the potential
of such multicountry agglomerations, rather
than thinking of some nations as regional
growth leaders. When seen through the lens
of economic geography, the regional integration priorities change to prioritizing regional
infrastructure investments in leading areas
that span several countries.
Regional trade in agricultural products
can be another entry point for broader
regional integration. This requires a revival

Map 9.5 Twin cities for local integration
City pairs in bordering regions within 150 kilometers and with more than 100,000 inhabitants

Maradi

Ziguinchor

Ndjamena
Kousseri
Maroua
Mubi
Kissidougou Parakou Shaki
Conakry
Jimeta Garoua
Nzerekore Portonovo
Freetown
Abeokuta
Man
Sefadu
Lomé
Lagos Calabar
Cotonou
Kumba

Bissau

Sikasso

Bobodioulasso Katsina

Brazzaville
Pointe-Noire
Kinshasa
Cabinda
Matadi Boma

Goma
Bukavu
Uvira
Kalemie

Kigali
Bujumbura
Kigoma

Lubumbashi
Chingola Mufulira

Mutare

Chimoio

Maseru
Bloemfontein

Source: WDR 2009 team.

WDR09_17_Ch09.indd 279

10/8/08 3:40:32 PM

280

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

of regional trade agreements, adequate
cross-country infrastructure, institutional
reforms, and nonmarket institutions such
as farmer cooperatives.69 The Horn of Africa
could build on its livestock trade, though
security poses a problem.70 West Africa
could build on cotton, if leading agricultural areas across several countries can be
integrated into a single, efficient production
and processing zone: the Sahelian cotton
basin in the border region of Burkina Faso,
Côte d’Ivoire, and Mali (see map 9.6). This
region, dominated by Dioula ethnic groups,
is anchored by three cities—Bobodioulasso
in Burkina Faso, Korhogo in Côte d’Ivoire,
and Sikasso in Mali.71 In 2000 the population of this area was 4 million (11 percent
of the total in the three countries), with an
estimated gross regional product of 1,000
billion CFA francs (10 percent of aggregate
national GDPs).
The areas in this region have complementary economic endowments. Bobodioulasso has an international airport with
storage facilities. Korhogo has a regional
airport, a specialized university, and training centers in agricultural science. Sikasso

Map 9.6

is the center of the cotton basin, with the
most production. Rails connect Ouagadougou and the port of Abidjan, and roads link
all three cities. And many ginneries and
textile industries are located in the region.
By upgrading and pooling infrastructure
within a regional industrial development
program, input costs could fall and cottonbased industries such as textile and garments could become competitive in the
global market. Such an initiative would
require a strong commitment from the
participating countries and support from
regional associations and the international
community.
Institutional development to increase
scale, support labor and capital mobility,
and improve market access. Some regions
have taken concrete steps toward integration. ECOWAS has signed protocols for the
free movement of people, abolishing visa
and entry permit requirements. In fact,
labor mobility has always been a hallmark
of Sub-Saharan Africa, where tradition or
colonial laws have favored circular labor
mobility. Nomads moved across countries
in response to seasonal climatic change,

West Africa has potential for cotton-led industrial development
MAURITANIA

Dakar

NIGER

MALI

SENEGAL

BURKINA
FASO

Banjul

THE
GAMBIA

CHAD
Niamey

Bamako

SUDAN

Ouagadougou

Bissau

GUINEABISSAU

N'Djamena

GUINEA
BENIN
Conakry
Freetown

CÔTE
D’IVOIRE

SIERRA
LEONE
LIBERIA
Monrovia

Yamoussoukro
Abidjan

Abuja

TOGO

CENTRAL
AFRICAN REPUBLIC

NIGERIA

GHANA
Cotonou
Tema
Accra

Lomé

Porto
Novo

CAMEROON
Douala
Yaoundé

EQ. GUINEA
GABON

Limit of cotton-producing basin:

Means of cotton exports:

DEM. REP.
OF CONGO

Cotton exports through the ports:

Cotton-producing basin

Rail

National cotton

Heart of the cotton basin

Road

Sahelian cotton

Ginning factory

CONGO

260
200
50
Tons (thousands)

Sources: Atlas on Regional Integration in West Africa. ECOWAS; Sahel and West Africa Club/OECD 2006.

WDR09_17_Ch09.indd 280

10/9/08 4:30:40 PM

Winners without Borders

while sedentary farmers also moved seasonally in search of supplementary income
during the dry season.72 But the skills of
the workforce need to improve. For higher
education, technical training, and research,
cooperation within the neighborhood can
support institutions beyond the means of
individual countries. And a better local
business climate and new opportunities in
regional growth centers may induce African migrants with technical and business
know-how to return from abroad.
Invest in regional infrastructure. The
New Partnership for Africa’s Development
(NEPAD) spatial development initiative
identified the Bas-Congo development corridor involving Angola, the Democratic
Republic of Congo, and the Republic of
Congo as a region where deep integration
would have large benefits, based on enormous hydroelectric power potential.73 Two
other development corridors also have
promise in West and East Africa:

•

•

The Gulf of Guinea development corridor—linking Benin, Côte d’Ivoire,
Ghana, Liberia, Nigeria, and Togo—
could integrate West African economies
through transport and energy. It could
also connect five large coastal cities with
a critical mass of economic activities and
administrative service provision: Abidjan, Accra, Cotonou, Lagos, and Lomé.
The Mombasa development corridor—
linking the Democratic Republic of
Congo, Kenya, Sudan, and Uganda—
could use established infrastructure
links such as the Northern Corridor to
unlock natural resources in the Democratic Republic of Congo and southern
Sudan.

Even with more regional infrastructure, better human capital, and greater
factor mobility, these neighborhoods still
face being latecomers in the global market, where other developing countries with
low-cost advantage dominate the market
for basic manufactures. African countries need to diversify their export base to
reduce dependence on natural resources.
Many of these neighborhoods need to
design explicit export diversification strategies to capture a larger share of the world
market (see box 9.2). Success requires

WDR09_17_Ch09.indd 281

281

institutional cooperation as well as specific infrastructure among countries in the
neighborhood.
Providing a regional public good is less
complex politically if it is based on a mutually beneficial and profitable project, as
in much of energy, communications, and
irrigation infrastructure. But for small
isolated countries, regional infrastructure
projects require considerable outside support. Traffic volumes are too small in most
parts of Africa for toll roads to be feasible.
And regional infrastructure may be more
beneficial for one country, even though
most of the investment costs are incurred
in another. In addition to reinvigorating
public-private partnerships in infrastructure, there is a need for scaling up International Development Association (IDA)
contributions to regional integration,
systematizing Aid-for-Trade initiatives74
and rationalizing the interaction between
regional development banks and global
fi nancial institutions. Less than 3 percent
of all international development support
now goes for regional programs.75
Use coordinated incentives to facilitate regional integration. African countries need to make a strong commitment
to regional integration, sharing the costs
and benefits from opening borders in natural neighborhoods. Multilateral agencies
and donors need to commit to long-term
support of these initiatives by providing
financial and technical assistance and better access to markets. Concrete steps can
be sequenced, gradually ensuring the irreversibility of policy reforms in leading and
lagging countries. Preferential trade agreements and aid flows could be tied to cooperation among recipient countries, with the
proposed EPAs with the EU as one model
(see box 9.3). In cases in which incentives
for regional cooperation are insufficient for
some partners—such as facilitating access
for a landlocked economy to a port in its
neighboring country—conditional aid
flows with clear performance targets may
be required.
A key incentive for policy reform in
Africa is temporary preferential access to
OECD markets.76 Africa cannot wait for a
big wage difference with Asia before starting to attract greater productive investment

10/8/08 3:40:32 PM

282

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

B OX 9.6

A contract with Africa? The give and take of the world’s biggest development challenge

Better understanding of the geography of development can lead to more
effective development aid. This Report
advocates different strategies for Africa’s
landlocked countries and its resourcepoor coastal economies. The former have
natural disadvantages associated with
geography and a large distance to market
that reduces their potential growth by
as much as half a percentage point per
year. But what is unusual in Africa is that
resource-poor coastal countries have
underperformed. These are the types of
countries that act as engines of growth in
other world regions. Africa’s growth poles
are still weak.
This Report argues, to exaggerate
somewhat, that development strategies
for leading areas should invest in places,
and strategies for lagging areas should
invest in people. Seen through the lens of
economic geography, the thrust of development assistance to Africa that focused
on education, health, and other social
infrastructure in the late 1990s seems correct for the lagging, landlocked countries.
But this assistance appears to focus on
the wrong priorities for coastal countries,
which need physical infrastructure and
better integration with global markets.
A better contract between donors
and countries would be to differentiate
approaches across countries depending on
their potential market access. This Report
proposes a tailored approach, which would
lay out the rights and responsibilities of
countries according to their potential

regional role. For each of Sub-Saharan
Africa’s regions, the contract would include
specific obligations and actions that
encourage regional development. The governments of East, West, and Central Africa
would commit to the following:
• Establishing “Regional Economic Areas”
that would tie the economic interests
of leading and lagging countries in
Africa’s regional neighborhoods tightly
together and provide a framework for
the provision of regional public goods.
• Pursuing freer movements of labor,
capital, goods, and services within
these areas.
• Maintaining and protecting access
routes between landlocked countries
and outlets for trade.
The strategy would combine institutional cooperation, investment in
regional infrastructure, and coordinated
interventions that may require giving up
some hard-won and jealously guarded
attributes of national sovereignty.
In exchange for these actions, bilateral
and multilateral development partners
would commit to the following:
• A large increase in international financial assistance for improved social
services and other life-sustaining infrastructure aimed at raising living standards and creating portable human
capital in lagging countries.
• Increased financial support for growthsustaining infrastructure—including

and larger export shares, especially with
multilateral trade negotiations at the WTO
driving down tariffs at a fast pace. Initiatives such as the U.S. Africa Growth and
Opportunity Act and the EU Everything
But Arms could be extended to all SubSaharan countries, with more liberal rules
of origin and a longer time span. This may
allow at least some of these countries to
break into world markets and could jumpstart export diversification in African
neighborhoods. A “contract with Africa”
could be a framework for supporting such
coordinated incentives (see box 9.6).

WDR09_17_Ch09.indd 282

ports, transport links, and information
and communication technology—in
the coastal countries, as well as corridor
infrastructure to link coastal and interior markets.
• Preferential access for Sub-Saharan
Africa’s exports, with liberalized rules of
origin that encourage regional supply
chains.
Things are already headed in this
direction. In 2007 the Government of
the United Kingdom, through its Department for International Development,
allocated $1.4 billion over the coming
decade to efforts by the governments of
Burundi, Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania, and
Uganda and to revitalize the East African
Economic Community. The European
Commission is also adopting a regional
approach with its economic partnership
agreements. But all donors could be
bolder in their approaches.
The experience of Europe after World
War II illustrates how national determination to prioritize reconstruction coupled
with international assistance can pay off.
Regional integration in Europe did not go
smoothly initially. But encouraged by the
tough terms of cooperation in the Marshall Plan, a process of integration that
would have been impossible a generation
earlier, created the largest common market for capital, labor, and ideas today.
Source: WDR 2009 team.

Over the past centuries, East, Central,
and West Africa have suffered a series of
“formative disasters” (see “Geography in
Motion, Density, Distance, and Division in
Sub-Saharan Africa”). Today, they pose an
especially difficult development challenge
spanning the three development dimensions—density, distance, and division.
To reshape their economic geography, the
policy response has to be commensurately
calibrated. A three-dimensional challenge
demands employing all three instruments
of integration—institutions, infrastructure,
and incentives.

10/8/08 3:40:33 PM

Geography in motion

Density, Distance, and Division
in Sub-Saharan Africa
In N
November
ovem
ov
embe
em
berr 1884,
be
1884
18
84, Chancellor
84
Chan
Ch
ance
an
c llllor
ce
or Otto
O von Bismarck of Germany convened a meeting of 14 European colonial powers in Berlin. After
ffour
fo
urr ccen
centuries
en
ntu
t ri
ries
es ooff co
competition
omppet
etit
itio
ion
n and hostility, the time had come to negotiate and settle territorial claims. Britain, France, Germany,
andd Po
Portugal
Por
rtugal were
wer
e e the
th
he main
m in players; no Africans were invited. Four months later, the borders of African countries had been charted
ma
in a pattern
pat
atte
tern
r stillll recognizable
recognizable today (see map G4.1). Bismarck’s disciplined solution remained until the end of World War I, when
the
the League
Le
of Nations confiscated Germany’s four colonies and gave other colonizers the mandate of governing them. At independence in the 1950s and 1960s, Sub-Saharan Africa had almost 50 countries, many of them called “artificial states,” with borders
cutting across physical geographic features and partitioning ethnic groups into more than one country.1

F

or Sub-Saharan Africa, the Berlin conference was just the last
in a long line of what geographers have termed “formative disasters,” unfavorably altering the human,
physical, and political geography of
the continent, creating continentwide
problems of low density, long distances,
and divided countries.
• Low density. Sub-Saharan Africa has
long been a continent where people
are scarce. Its population in the eighteenth century was about 90 million.
Eurasia, with an area about twice that
of Africa, had more than five times as
many people. But these initial conditions were tragically worsened by the
slave trade. Between 1700 and 1810,
an estimated 15 million Africans—
one of every six—were taken to the
Americas. Some areas were depopulated, and many more mired in devastating conflict as the price put on
humans turned Africans against each
another. Europe finally put an end to
the slave trade, and replaced it with
colonialism in the eighteenth century.
A rapacious trade in men was then
replaced by a plundering of the continent for minerals. But even with new
settlers, the continent still suffered
from low density in most places.
• Long distances. Since the Holocene
Age that began about 18,000 years

WDR09_18_GIM04.indd 283

ago, the Sahara has been an inhospitable desert, separating northern
Africa from what we now call “SubSaharan” Africa. The global warming
of that period had other major consequences. It cut contact between most
of Africa and the emerging civilizations in the Arab Republic of Egypt
and the Middle East. It turned Equatorial Africa from a temperate savannah into a hot and humid place where
malaria and yellow fever thrived.
Proximity to wild animals and the
absence of frost—a natural disinfectant—increased human vulnerability to diseases. And when Africans
settled in healthy, fertile places, they
were again displaced by colonial settlers. Since the 1950s armed conflicts
in pre- and postindependence movements have aggravated the problem
of refugees. The result: movements of
people that have left many in remote
areas far from the centers of economic
activity. The long distance to density
still affects the growth potential of a
large part of the African population.
• Deep divisions. The partitioning of
Africa in 1884 left the continent with
the most countries per square kilometer of any region in the world.
Each African country has an average
of four neighbors; in Latin America
the average is 2.3. There are also religious divisions, between and within

countries. Chad, Côte d’Ivoire, Ethiopia, Nigeria, Somalia, and Sudan, for
example, are fragmented into Islamic
and non-Islamic parts. Islam came
from the Middle East into North and
West Africa by land and into East
Africa by sea. Later, European colonialists brought Christianity. The
superimposition of these great world
religions on top of traditional beliefs
reinforced the continent’s divide and
may have added to conflict.2
Sub-Saharan Africa today suffers
from the triple disadvantages of low
density, long distance, and deep division that put the continent at a developmental disadvantage. These spatial
dimensions reduce proximity between
economic agents within Sub-Saharan
Africa, and between Africa and the rest
of the world. “Cumulative causation”
between these forces catches many
countries in Sub-Saharan Africa in a
“proximity trap.”3

Low density is linked to weak
agglomeration forces
The average population density on the
continent (77 people per square kilometer) is among the lowest in the world.4
A sparsely inhabited continent can overcome this by using its land and people
well and by concentrating resources in
urban agglomerations. But Sub-Saharan

10/9/08 10:33:36 PM

284

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Map G4.1

Africa’s borders were charted before World War I

Tangier International zone
SPANISH
MOROCCO
Madeira I.
(Portugal)
Canary Is.
(Spain)

TUNISIA

FRENCH
MOROCCO

ALGERIA
LIBYA

EGYPT

RIO DE ORO

Cape Verde Is.
(Portugal)

FRENCH WEST
AFRICA

GAMBIA
PORTUGUESE
GUINEA

SUDAN

NIGERIA
LIBERIA

SOMALILAND

FRENCH

TOGOLAND

SIERRA LEONE

ERITREA FRENCH

IVORY GOLD
COAST COAST

EQUATORIAL

CAMEROON

GUINEA

Fernando Poo
(Spain) RIO MUNI
São Tomé
(Portugal)

ETHIOPIA

BRITISH
SOMALILAND
ITALIAN
SOMALILAND

UGANDA
KENYA

BELGIAN
EAST AFRICA

Seychelles
(United Kingdom)

BELGIAN
CONGO

GERMAN
EAST AFRICA

Zanzibar I.
(United Kingdom)
Aldabra Is.
(United Kingdom)
Comoros Is.
NYASALAND
(France)

CABINDA
(United Kingdom)

ANGOLA
NORTHERN
RHODESIA

Possession of:
Belgium
France
Germany
Italian

WALVIS BAY
(United Kingdom)

SOUTHERN
GERMAN
RHODESIA
SOUTHWEST
AFRICA
BECHUANALAND

MOZAMBIQUE
MADAGASCAR
Réunion
(France)

Mauritius
(United
Kingdom)

Portuguese
Spain
United Kingdom

SOUTH
AFRICA

SWAZILAND
BASUTOLAND

Independent nations

Source: WDR 2009 team, based on Pakenham 1992.

Africa is the world’s least urbanized
continent, with only one-third of the
population living in urban areas in 2000,
according to the UN’s World Urbanization Prospects. Due to the lack of regular
and recent censuses, even this may overstate the urbanization in Africa.5 The
agglomeration index in chapter 1 gives
Africa a score of 30 percent, compared
with about 50 percent for the rest of the
world.

WDR09_18_GIM04.indd 284

Divisions between countries in Africa
can distort the pattern of urbanization.
One simulation suggests that if Africa’s
50 countries were 50 states in one country, like the United States, the largest cities would be even bigger than they are
today, capable of sustaining diversified
economies and incubating entrepreneurship, skills, and innovation. Without
such prospects Africa’s skilled labor has
migrated to other continents.

Long distances raise
transport costs and
reduce factor mobility
Distance reinforces the effects of low
population density on productivity in
Africa. While much is made of Africa’s
distance from world markets, the primary problem is domestic—long distances within countries.6 Table G4.1
indicates that Africa has one of the lowest
road densities in the world, second only

10/9/08 10:33:50 PM

285

Geography in Motion

Table G4.1

The most distant and divided regions—trading and transport are expensive

Region
East Asia & Pacific

Trading time
across borders
for exports
(days)a

Average transport
costs
($ per container to
Baltimore)b

24

3,900

Ratio of number
countries to
surface areab

Road density
(km2 of road per
surface area)
(1999)c

Estimated
number of civil
conflicts,
(1940–2000)d

0.42

1.44

0.72

8

Population in
landlocked
countries (%)b

Europe & Central Asia

29

–

23.00

1.17

–

13

Latin America & Caribbean

22

4,600

2.77

1.52

0.12

15

Middle East & North Africa

27

2,100

0

1.60

0.33

17

South Asia

34

3,900

3.78

1.67

0.85

24

Sub-Saharan Africa

40

7,600

40.20

2.00

0.13

34

Sources: a. World Bank 2006b, p. 44; b. Ndulu and others 2007, p. 101; c. Ndulu and others 2007, p. 29; d. Fearon and Laitin 2003, pp. 7–10.
Note: – = not available

to Latin America. But unlike Latin America—where the population lives largely
along the coast, making it unnecessary to
build roads into the interior—Africa has
a third of its population in landlocked
countries and even more far from access
to global markets. Economic distance in
Africa—in the sense of market access
(see chapter 2)—is further lengthened
by armed conflicts and linguistic diversity (see map G4.1). Economic distance
has isolated a large proportion of Africans from access to domestic and global
markets. Physical factors, such as the
relative absence of navigable rivers and
natural harbors, have been serious barriers to trade. Low levels of domestic
and international trade, in turn, limit
the potential for growth.

Deep divisions raise
transport costs
Sub-Saharan Africa is a highly fragmented continent with many borders,
many neighbors, and high transport
costs. Africa is as physically close to
global markets as is East Asia—about
7,500 kilometers—and closer than
Latin America (9,000 kilometers).7 But
it still costs almost twice as much to
ship a container to the east coast of the
United States from Africa as from other
regions (see table G4.1). Compounding expensive access to global markets
is costly access to regional markets. It
takes an African exporter about 40 days
to cross the border into a neighboring
country, compared with 22 days for a
Latin American counterpart. For the

WDR09_18_GIM04.indd 285

third of Africans who live in landlocked
countries, the costs of division are even
greater. They must move goods long
distances over land—expensive, because
each 1 percent increase in distance
increases transport costs by approximately 0.25 percent.8 And landlocked
countries must rely on the goodwill
(and efficient investment) of neighbors
for access to ports and markets.

Meeting the challenge—better
urbanization, more domestic
specialization, and more
regional integration
Africa can reduce the limitations of its
poor economic geography. Better urban
agglomerations can deliver scale efficiencies. Transport links can help domestic
markets grow. And regional and global
integration can promote trade. Regional
integration, labor mobility, investments
in trade, communication and transport
infrastructure, and peace and stability
should remain high on the agenda. They
create good neighborhoods, and better
neighborhoods will facilitate investment,
trade, and factor mobility in a cycle of
prosperity.
• Urbanization. Contrary to some
thinking, urbanization, done right,
can help development more in Africa
than elsewhere. Despite five decades
of low-quality urbanization, living
standards in Africa’s cities are much
higher than in the countryside. If
urbanization can be managed better,
along the lines proposed in chapter 7,

significant gains can be expected in
productivity and poverty reduction.
• Territorial development. The guidance from economic geography is
unambiguous: firms and workers
seek agglomeration, and migration is
a natural way to increase density and
reduce distance to markets. Chapter 8
proposes some principles and priorities for countries where lagging areas
are sparsely populated and divided
along ethnic, linguistic, or religious
lines. Agriculture is one priority, but
policies to help leading areas exploit
scale economies may be especially
important in Africa as a latecomer to
economic development.
• Regional integration. Given its history, political regionalism may have
to take the lead in African regional
integration. The experience of Western Europe summarized earlier in this
Report spotlights the importance of
starting small and keeping expectations realistic. Regional integration
takes time and will not happen in all
parts of Africa at once. Infrastructure
projects are a good place to start. But
through regional integration, Africa
can undo some of what Bismarck
and his guests did in 1884. Chapter 9
showed that many African countries
have taken the first steps, outlining
what the rest of the world can do to
help.

Based on a contribution by Wim
Naudé.

10/9/08 10:33:51 PM

WDR09_18_GIM04.indd 286

10/9/08 10:33:51 PM

Bibliographical Note
This Report draws on a wide range of World Bank documents
and on numerous outside sources. Background papers and
notes were prepared by Maria Abreu, Stephen Adam, Yusuf
Ahmad, M Alva, Alberto Behar, Sarah Boeckmann, Marius
Brulhart, Massimiliano Cali, Yang Chen, Michael Clemens,
Kirsten Cornelson, Souleymane Coulibaly, Nicholas Crafts,
Edward Feser, John Felkner, Kali Glen-Haley, Geoffrey J.D.
Hewings, Austin Kilroy, Melissa Klink, Christian Layke,
Philip Manners, Robert Margo, Thomas Markussen, Thierry
Mayer, John McCombie, Topher McDougal, Claudio E.
Montenegro, Megumi Muto, Andrew Nelson, B. Nelson,
Wim Naudé, Park Sam Ock, Jinhwan Oh, Keijiro Otsuka,
Ken Poole, Lant Pritchett, Diego Puga, David Satterthwaite,
Andrey Treyvish, Hirotsugu Uchida, Dirk Willem Te Velde,
Cam Vidler, and Nong Zhu.
Background papers for the Report are available either
on the World Wide Web www.worldbank.org/wdr2009 or
through the World Development Report office. The views
expressed in these papers are not necessarily those of the
World Bank or of this Report.
Many people inside and outside the World Bank gave
comments to the team. Valuable comments, guidance, support, and contributions were provided by James Adams,
Uma Adusumilli, Theodore Ahlers, Alexis Albion, Junaid
Ahmed, Halil Ibrahim Akca, Mohamad Al-Arief, Riad Al
Khoury, Asad Alam, Ritu Anand, Candra Fajri Ananda,
Inger Andersen, Martin Andersson, Patricia Clarke Annez,
Jorge Saba Arbache, Omar Arias, Jean Eric Aubert, Fouad
Awada, Jit Bajpai, George Banjo, Luca Barbone, Elena
Bardasi, Alberto Behar, Connie Bernard, Anthony Bigio,
S. A. Dan Biller, Kate Bird, Alessandro Magnoli Bocchi,
Zeljko Bogetic, Laurent Bossard, Carlos Braga, Milan
Brahmbhatt, Marie-H. P. Bricknell, Robert Buckley, Thomas
Buckley, Derek Byerlee, Fernando Cabezas, Francisco
Carneiro, Mauricio Carrizosa, Shyam Chainani, Nadereh
Chamlou, Jaime Saavedra Chanduvi, Robert Chase, Ken
Chomitz, Abderrahmane Chorfi, Luc Christiaensen,
Marie-Helene Collion, Hector Valdes Conroy, Jean-Marie
Cour, Xavier Crépin, Aude de Amorim, Augusto de la
Torre, Christopher Delgado, Christian Delvoie, Gabriel
Demombynes, Sebastien Dessus, Jaime de Melo, Mamadou
Dem, Banu Demir, Michele de Nevers, Jean-Jacques Dethier,
Shantayanan Devarajan, Makhtar Diop, Ndiame Diop,
Frederique Docquier, Paul Dorosh, Cuney Duzyol, William
Easterly, Ibrahim Elbadawi, Lewis Eldridge, Antonio
Estache, Warren Evans, Shahrokh Fardoust, Marianne Fay,
Wolfgang Fengler, Alexander Ferguson, Francisco Ferreira,
Melissa Fossberg, Vivien Foster, Bernard G. Funck, Saurabh

Garg, Kristalina Georgieva, Ejaz Ghani, Marcelo Giugale,
Sudarshan Gooptu Jose Luis Guasch, Sumila Gulyani,
Jonathan Halpern, Simon Hay, Rui Hao, Jesko S. Hentschel,
Santiago Herrera, Andre Herzog, Kate Higging, Larry
Hinkle, Mun S. Ho, Bernard Hoekman, Vivian Hon, Yukon
Huang, David Hummels, Djibrilla Issa, Narasimham Vijay
Jagannathan, Zelena Jagdeo, Rachid Jamali, Emmanuel
Jimenez, Steen Jorgensen, Abha Joshi-Ghani, Ellis J. Juan,
Stephen George Karam, Shigeo Katsu, Phil Keefer, Christine
Kessides, Peyvand Khaleghian, Homi Kharas, Nadim
Khouri, Jacob Kolster, Aart Kraay, Alexander Kremer, K. L.
Krishna, Kathy Krumm, Alice Kuegler, Praveen Kumar,
Caterina Laderchi, Amina Lahreche, Peter Lanjouw, Hedi
Larbi, Frannie Leautier, Phillippe Leite, Jeffrey Lewis,
Maureen Lewis, Johannes Linn, Laszlo Lovei, Xubei
Luo, William Maloney, Jean-Michel Marchat, Katharine
Martingale, Ernesto May, David McKenzie, Elisabeth
Mealey, Shomik Raj Mehndiratta, Barjor Mehta, Mukesh
Mehta, Abel Mejia, Taye Mengistae, Dino Merotto, Stephen
Mink, Pradeep Mitra, Keiko Miwa, Celestin Monga, Nasser
Munjee, Zafer Mustafaoglu, Abdu Muwonge, Ijaz Nabi,
Mustapha Kamel Nabli, Gobind Nankani, Ashish Narain,
Benno N’dulu, Vikram Nehru, Eric Neumayer, Cecile
Niang, John Overholt, Caglar Ozden, Nicolas Perrin, Abhay
Pethe, Axel Peuker, Vidyadhar Phatak, Brian Pinto, Mark
Povey, Habib Nasser Rab, Madhu Raghunath, Robin Rajack,
Anupam Rastogi, Dilip Ratha, S. K. Rao, Martin Ravallion,
Jean-Louis Reiffers, Jose Guilherme Reis, Frederic RobertNicoud, Klaus Rohland, Jamal Saghir, Maurice Schiff, Emily
M. Schmidt, Annemarie Schneider. Harris Selod, Marcelo
Selowsky, Ethel Sennhauser, Claudia Sepulveda, Shekhar
Shah, Zmarak Shalizi, Sudhir Shetty, Vera Songwe, Manju
Sood, Andrew Steer, Jack Stein, Andy Tatem, Ahmet Tiktik,
Christopher Timmins, Tim Thomas, Vinod Thomas, Peter
Thomson, Mark Tomlinson, Yvonne Tsikata, Laura Tuck,
Carolyn Turk, Sanjay Ubale, Sameh Wahba, Linda Van
Gelder, Juergen Voegele, Hyoung Gun Wang, David Wheeler,
Dirk Willem te Velde, Jan von der Goltz, Jorge Wilheim,
John Wilson, Zelai Xu, Ahmet Yaman, Evgeny Yasin, Tito
Yepes, Yutaka Yoshino, Shahid Yusuf, Ulrich Zachau, Albert
Zeufack, Yan Zhang, and Ekaterina Zhuravskaya.
We have also benefited from suggestions and feedback
of participants at consultation and discussion workshops
held during the drafting stage of the report. In particular, we would like to thank Olav Seim and Marianne Berg
of Ministry of Foreign Affairs (Norway); Per Ronnas,
Klas Groth, and Christina Hartler of SIDA (Sweden);
Pekka Hukka and Elina Levaniemi of Ministry of Foreign
287

WDR09_19_BibNote.indd 287

10/10/08 9:42:34 AM

288

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Affaires (Finland); participants in the Berlin workshop:
Tanja Boerzel, Mantang Cai, Angel de la Fuente Moreno,
Nicola De Michelis, Manfred Fischer, Grzegorz Gorzelak,
Eduardo Haddad, Steven Haggblade, Michael Hofmann,
Robert Kappel, Aehyung Kim, Adama Konseiga, Frauke
Kraas, Astrid Kuehl, Rolf J. Langhammer, Ingo Liefner,
Roman Mogilevsky, Hassen Mohamed, Peter Nijkamp,
Nils-Henning Meyer, Ulrich Nitschke, Boris Pleskovic, and
Gerhard Ressel; participants in the Marseille workshop:
Mona Yafi, Jean-Eric Aubert, Gilles Pipien, Rachid Afi rat,
Erfan Ali, Michel Arnaud, Jean-Dominique Assie, Fouad
Awada, Mohamed Basyouny, AbdelKébir Berkia, Morched
Chabbi, Abderrahmane Chorfi, Simon Compaore, JeanPierre Elong Mbassi, Kamal Hamdan, Gamal Hamid, Rachid
El-Jamali, Rabea Kharfi, Hugues Kouadio, Frannie Léautier,
Abdellah Lehzam, Pierre Mayet, Jean-Louis Reiffers, Wafaa
Sobhy, Kian Tajbakhsh, Pierre Veltz, Xavier Crépin, Luc
Dassonville, Thierry Desclos, Olivier Mourareau, Joan
Parpal, Elizabeth Peri, Michele Reynaud, Paul-Henri
Schipper, Serge Snrech, Louis-Jacques Vaillant, Nathalie
Tchoumba Bitnga, Loraine Falconetti, Fabien Marry, and
Olivier Lavinal; participants in the Dar-es-Salaam workshop: Tom Okurut, Samuel Wangwe, Elly Manjale, Mr.
Raphael Mwai, Audance Ndayizeye, Professor Semboja,
Dennis Rweyemamu, Amos Majule, Mr Kweyamba,
Professor Kishimba, Furaha Lugoe, Haji Semboja, Dr
Shechambo, Cosmos Sokoni, Prof Yanda, Marc Kabandama,
H. B. Lunogelo, Vivian Kazi, Irene Alenga, Stina Peteson,
and Monica Hangi; participants in the Abidjan workshop:
Mohamadou Abdoul, Kasségné Adjonou, Stéphane Aka
Anghui, Alban Alphonse Emmanuel Ahourse, Jean-Marie
Akpoue, Koffi Attahi, Djerkbary Bambah, Toyidi Bello,
Joseph Coulibaly, Konan Kouakou Noel Dahoua, Alhassane
Coster Diaw, Anne Marcelle Douka, Jacques Esso, Siaka
Fofana, Agnès Gnamon-Adiko, Joachim Hunlede, John
Igue, Prosper Kedagni, Constant Koidou, Hugues Kouadio,
Alexane Kouame, Kouassi Jean-Baptiste Kouma, Mibanan
Hippolithe Kone, Jean Claude Koutou, Gabin Kponhassia,
Owusu-Bonsu Kwame, Moussa Ladan, Youayou Marital
Laguidahi, Konon Jules Lella, Edmond Manouan, Isaac
F. Mensa-Bonsou, Yao Kouadio Antoine N’Gbala, Jérôme
Aloko N’Guessan, N’Da N’Guessan Kouadio, Sidi Ould
Cheikh Abdallahi, Guillaume Poirel, Adama Sall, Kanon
Seri, Adama Sissouma, Soumaïla Sogodogo, Fidel Yapi
Amoncou, and François Yatta; organizers of the Mumbai
and Hyderabad workshops: Infrastructure Development
Finance Corporation and Bombay Chamber of Commerce
and Industry; and Administrative Staff College of India;
participants at the Mumbai workshop: Jairaj Phatak,
Sanjay G. Ubale, Manu Kumar Srivastava, Sanjay Sethi,

WDR09_19_BibNote.indd 288

P. R. K. Murthy, Uma Adusumilli, Vidyadhar K. Phatak,
G. S. Gill, Satyendra Sinha, C. S. Deshpande, Mukesh
Mehta, Mridula Krishna, Arun Mokashi, Siddharth Roy,
Veena Mishra, Rajan Divekar, Dilip Karmarkar, Dinkar
Samant, Shishirkumar Rai, John Alexander, Ramakant Jha,
Rahul Srivastava, Shyam H. Chainani, Gerson D’Cunha,
Jockin Arputham, Abhay Pethe, Niranjan Rajadhyaksha,
Sarosh Bana, Darryl D’Monte, Ashley D’Mello, Dilip
D’Souza, Neha Batura, Sadashiv Rao, M. K. Sinha, A. K. T.
Chari, Sonia Sethi, Ashish Chandak, Anupam Rastogi, Lavi
D’Costa, Ritu Anand, Nasser Munjee, Manju Sood, C. B.
Juvekar, and R. Ganesh; participants at the Hyderabad
workshop: Kamal Kumar, M. Govinda Rao, K. L. Krishna,
B. G. Verghese, Mahendra Dev, Subhashish Gangopadhyay,
Narhari Rao, Sanjaya Baru, C. Rammanohar Reddy,
Amitabh Kundu, Ravi Bhoothalingam, Amb. S. Narayanan,
Ranjana Kumar, Alakh N. Sharma, Rameshwar Singh,
A. K. Singh, Sri. B. C. Mohapatra, R. Radhakrishna, K.
Krishnamurthy, Mahesh Mishra, Santosh Mahrotra, D. C.
Sah, Surjit Singh, Prabhat P. Ghosh, G. C. Paul, Jang Pangi,
Yaduvendra Mathur, Shubas Chandra Garg, Umesh Sinha,
Gautam Pingle, S. K. Rao, Mohammed A. Abid, Surendar
Reddy, Nirmalaya Bagchi, and Anand Akundy; participants at the Moscow workshop: Evgeny Yasin, Vladimir
Mau, Vladimir Nazarov, Ilya Mazayev, Mikhail Dmitriev,
Ksenia Yudaeva, Ekaterina Zhuravskaya, Evsei Gurvich,
Evgennii Gavrlienkov, Galina Kurlyandskaya, Nadezhda
Kosareva, Lidiya Ovhcharova, Natalia Zubarevich, Vladimir
Drebentsov, Eugenii Gontmacher, Aleksey Prazdnichnykh,
Aleksander Morozov, Andrey Treyvish, Vitaly Shipov,
Dmitry Aratsky, Tatyana Popova, Irina Makeeva, Oksana
Sergienko, Oleg Zasov, Marina Vasilieva, and Vladislava
Nemova; the organizers of the Ankara workshop, State
Planning Organization, and participants: Necla Akça, Didem
Akman, Enver Aksoy, Ayhan Atli, Yavuz Cabbar, Abdullah
Çelik, Ayda Eraydin, Oguz Isik, Serap Kayasu, Vural Kural,
Cenk Oguzsoy, Elvan Ongun, Mevlüt Özen, Ibrahim Hakki
Polat, Gül Polat, Faruk Sahin, Zekeriya Sarbak, Zafer Yavan,
and Hami Yildirim
Jeff Lecksell, Siobhan Murray, and Brian Blankespoor
prepared the maps for this Report. Other valuable assistance was provided by Gytis Kanchas, Polly Means, Nacer
Mohamed Megherbi, Grace P. Sorensen, Catalina Tejada,
and Roula I. Yazigi. Merrell J. Tuck-Primdahl, Kavita Watsa,
and Prianka Nandy assisted the team with consultations and
dissemination.
Despite efforts to compile a comprehensive list, some who
contributed may have been inadvertently omitted. The team
apologizes for any oversights and reiterates its gratitude to
all who contributed to this Report.

10/10/08 9:42:34 AM

289

Bibliographical note

Background papers for the World Development
Report 2009

Background notes for the World Development
Report 2009

Behar, Alberto. 2008. “Neighborhood Growth Effects: An Annual
Panel Data Approach.”
Brulhart, Marius. 2008. “An Account of Global Intra-Industry
Trade, 1962-2006.”
Cali, Massimiliano. 2007. “Urbanisation, Inequality and Economic Growth: Evidence from Indian States.”
Clemens, Michael A., Claudio E. Montenegro, and Lant Pritchett. 2008. “The Great Discrimination: Borders as a Labor Market
Barrier.”
Coulibaly, Souleymane. 2008. “On the Complementarity of
Regional and Global Trade.”
Hewings, Geoffrey, E. Feser, and K. Poole. 2007. “Spatial/Territorial Development Policies in the United States.”
Kilroy, Austin. 2007. “Intra-Urban Spatial Inequalities: Cities as
‘Urban Regions’.”
Kroehnert, Steffen, and Sebastian Vollmer. 2008. “Where Have
All Young Women Gone?”
Mayer, Thierry. 2008. “Market Potential and Development.”
Montenegro, Claudio E., and Maximilian L. Hirn. 2008. “A New
Disaggregated Set of Labor Market Indicators using Standardized
Household Surveys from Around the World.”
Nelson, Andrew. 2007. “Accessibility Model and Population
Estimates.”
Nelson, B., and A. Behar. 2008. “Natural Resources, Growth and
Spatially-Based Development: A View of the Literature.”
Roberts, Mark. 2008. “Congestion and spatially connective infrastructure: the case of London in the 19th and early 20th century.”
Roberts, Mark, and Uwe Deichmann. 2008. “Regional Spillover
Estimation.”
Uchida, Hirotsugu, and Andrew Nelson. 2008. “Agglomeration
Index: Towards a New Measure of Urban Concentration.”

Abreu, Maria. 2008. “Effectively Dealing with Slums.”
Alva, M., and A. Behar. 2008. “Factors That Contribute to (or
Detract from) Successful Outcomes in African Regional Agreements.”
Andersson, Martin. 2007. “Spatial Disparities in Taiwan.”
Cali, Massimiliano. 2008. “Urban Agglomeration Policy in
China.”
Chen, Yang. 2008. “China: A Case Study of 1D-2D-3D areas.”
Cornelson, Kirsten. 2008. “Egypt and South Africa: A Case Study
of 1D-2D-3D areas.”
Crafts, Nicholas. 2007. “European Growth in the Age of Regional
Economic Integration: Convergence Big Time?”
Crafts, Nicholas. 2007. “Spatial Disparities in 19th Century British Industrialization.”
Hay, Simon I., Dave L. Smith, and Robert W. Snow. 2008. “Is a
Future for Human Malaria Inevitable?”
Kilroy, Austin. 2008. “The Role of Cities in Postwar Economic
Recovery.”
Klink, Melissa. 2008. “Nigeria and South Africa: A Case Study of
1D-2D-3D areas.”
Layke, Christian, and Stephen Adam. 2008. “Spatial Allocation
of Public Expenditures in Nigeria.”
Manners, P., and A. Behar. 2007. “Trade in Sub-Saharan Africa
and Opportunities for Low Income Countries.”
Markussen, Thomas. 2008. “Policies for improved land use in
developing countries.”
Naudé, Wim. 2007. “Density, Distance and Division Spotlight
on Sub-Saharan Africa.”
Oh, Jinhwan. 2008. “Korea: A Case Study of 1D-2D-3D areas.”
Roberts, Mark. 2008. “Social and Spatial Equity.”
Satterthwaite, David. 2007. “Expanding the Supply and Reducing the Cost of Land for Housing in Urban Areas in Low- and
Middle-Income Nations.”
Te Velde, Dirk Willem. 2007. “Regional Integration, Growth and
Concentration.”
Treyvish, Andrey. 2008. “The Downfall of the Soviet Union: A
Spatial Explanation.”
Vidler, Cam, 2008. “Turkey and Russia: A Case Study of
1D-2D-3D areas.”

WDR09_19_BibNote.indd 289

10/10/08 9:42:34 AM

WDR09_19_BibNote.indd 290

10/10/08 9:42:34 AM

Endnotes
Overview
1. Clemens, Montenegro, and Pritchett (2008), background
paper for this Report.
2. Collier (2007).
3. In Zambia a person in a settlement with more than 5,000 people is considered urban; in India the threshold is 20,000. To compare
urbanization across countries, this Report pioneers a new measure
of population density, the “agglomeration index” (see chapter 1).
4. See World Bank 2007k.
5. Fujita 2007.
6. Mukherjee 2007.
7. Koh and Chang 2005.
8. de Blij 2005.
9. Khanna 2008.
10. World Bank 2008e.
11. Throughout this Report, what is often called “regional development” or “territorial development” is referred to as “area development.” These policies must contend with even greater spatial
unevenness as their scope widens to encompass a country.
Navigating This Report
1. http://nobelprize.org/nobel_prizes/economics/laureates/1971.
2. http://nobelprize.org/nobel_prizes/economics/laureates/
1971/kuznets-lecture.html.
3. Brown and others 2008.
GIM 1
1. See Engerman and Sokoloff (2000a) and Acemoglu, Johnson,
and Robinson (2002).
2. For a more detailed discussion of U.S. economic geography,
see Kim and Margo (2004).
3. Fogel (1979) suggests that no single technology was responsible for this reduction in cost. For example, he estimates that U.S.
output in 1890 would have been only 4 percent lower if goods were
transported by water rather than rail.
4. McCallum (1995).
Chapter 1
1. Farvacque-Vitkovic, Casalis, and Eghoff (2007), p. 37.
2. United Nations/Wilbur Smith Associates (1980), p. 2.
3. Siegel (1997), p. 61.
4. NUTS provides a single uniform classification of territorial
units for producing regional statistics for the European Union. The
first two administrative levels in most member states correspond
to NUTS 2 and NUTS 3. NUTS 1, a larger unit representing the
major socioeconomic regions, often does not correspond to existing administrative units within member states.
5. The figures in this paragraph are derived from data on total
land area, proportion of land area dedicated to agricultural uses,
total employment, proportion of employment in agriculture, GDP,
and proportion of gross value added (GVA) generated in agriculture (Eurostat 2005; Belgium’s Office of National Statistics 2006).

Employment figures are for 2003, population figures for 2002, and
GDP figures for 2005. All GDP figures are quoted using purchasing
power standard (PPS) exchange rates.
6. Population figures are for year 2007 (www.citypopulation.de/
world.htm).
7. The tendency for the populations of the primate or largest
few cities in a country to considerably outweigh the populations of
cities down the hierarchy of places is reflected in the tendency of
the rank-size rule to break down at the top end of the size distribution of cities.
8. These definitions of the rank-size rule and Zipf ’s law are
approximate. For more precise definitions see Gabaix and Ioannides (2004).
9. Eeckhout 2004.
10. Martin 2005. Even in the United Kingdom, which has a
highly spatially and institutionally concentrated financial sector,
large cities such as Birmingham, Manchester, Leeds, and Edinburgh
have fairly large concentrations of venture capital firms, although
regional stock exchanges had been abolished by the beginning of
the 1970s.
11. Kim and Margo 2004.
12. Office of the Deputy Prime Minister 2003.
13. Thanh, Anh, and Tacoli 2005.
14. Tiffen 2003.
15. Glaeser and Kahn 2001, p. 21.
16. Baker and others 2005, p. 15.
17. Peng, Zhu, and Song 2008, p. 7.
18. Glaeser and Kahn 2001.
19. Estimated from the gross product of the world’s major cities published in www.citymayors.com; Price Waterhouse Cooper
2007.
20. This is equal to the excess of GVA measured on a workplace
basis over GVA measured on a residence basis for London. Calculation is based on data from Office of National Statistics (2006).
21. Figures on flows of earnings associated with commuting
come from the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis.
22. Quote taken from the glossary of the World Urbanization
Prospects: The 2007 Revision Population Database (http://esa
.un.org/unup/.).
23. Even with time-series analysis, some care needs to be exhibited with the World Urbanization Prospects database. For some
countries the official definition of an urban area has changed over
time. In China, for example, the urban share in 1999 could have
been 24 percent, 31 percent, or 73 percent depending on the official
definition of urban population used (Satterthwaite 2007).
24. Glaeser, Kolko, and Saiz 2001.
25. Statistics taken from Price Waterhouse Cooper 2007.
26. The estimates of urban consumption shares are based on
available household surveys of different years, and the per capita
GDP estimates are in 2000 U.S. dollars for the respective years (the
data set is described in detail in Montenegro and Hirn 2008).
27. Maddison 2008b.
291

WDR09_20_Endnotes.indd 291

10/9/08 11:44:42 PM

292

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

28. Kim and Margo 2004.
29. This is the so-called home market effect of the new economic geography, also discussed in chapter 4. The concentration of economic activity in urban areas also entails additional
productivity-enhancing effects, as discussed in chapter 4.
30. This tendency for urbanization to produce a divergence in
basic welfare indicators in favor of urban areas distinguishes the
modern-day developing countries from the industrializers of the
nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, discussed below.
31. Based on 2003 data from Maddison (2008b).
32. European Commission 2001.
33. Miles 2007.
34. As measured in constant 1990 international dollars using
data from Maddison (2008b).
35. An area is defined as predominantly urban (rural) if more
than 50 percent of its population lives in urban (rural) areas. An
area is also classed as predominantly urban if its urban population
share is between 15 and 50 percent and it has an urban center of
more than 500,000 inhabitants (1 million for Japan) representing
in excess of 25 percent of the area’s population.
36. Some care is required in this case. The increase in the U.S.
urban wage premium during this period might have had less to do
with better lives in cities than with the effects of large declines in
the relative prices of agricultural commodities (Barro and Sala-IMartin 2004, p. 470).
37. These estimates of urban consumption and urban shares of
population are based on country household surveys of different
years, depending on availability.
38. As illustrated later for China, however, this is not the case for
all developing countries. Although there is a negative relationship
across Chinese provinces between the urban share and the ratio of
urban to rural income, this relationship has shifted upward since
the late 1990s.
39. “Access to water” is defined here as any access to improved
water sources. These sources vary according to the local context,
but include wells, communal taps, piped water, and trucks selling
water. Similarly, “sanitation” refers to a range of qualified items
such as latrines and outhouses.
40. The countries included in the sample are Bangladesh, Benin,
Bolivia, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chad, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, the Arab Republic of Egypt, Ghana, Guatemala,
Haiti, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Malawi, Mali, Morocco,
Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Peru, the Philippines, Tanzania, Turkey, Uganda, Vietnam, Zambia, and Zimbabwe.
41. Gwatkin and others 2007.
42. Satterthwaite and others 2007.
43. The Economist 2007a.
44. Satterthwaite and others 2007.
45. Satterthwaite and others 2007.
46. Data on Delhi’s population comes from United Nations
(2006).
47. Smith 1989.
48. Crafts 2008.
49. Williamson 1982.
50. The Economist 2007a.
51. Satterthwaite and others 2007.

WDR09_20_Endnotes.indd 292

52. This figure, together with all other historical urban share figures quoted in this section, is based on the definition of an urban
area as a city with more than 5,000 inhabitants and taken from Bairoch and Goertz (1986). All figures on urban shares and populations
for contemporary developing countries in this section have been
taken, or calculated using data, from the United Nations (2006c). As
previously noted, using this database to compare changes in urban
share across countries is not as problematic as using it to compare
levels of urban shares across countries.
53. This sample consists of Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain,
Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. Its composition
was determined by the availability of historical data from Bairoch
and Goertz (1986).
54. Figure 1.13 illustrates a number of countries that, according to the United Nations (2006), experienced positive change in
urban share between 1985 and 2005. A handful of countries with
populations greater than 1 million experienced “negative urbanization” over this period (for example, Armenia, Estonia, Georgia,
Kyrgystan, Latvia, Moldova, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan). Although
the definitions of an urban area have not changed for these countries, the pattern of declining urban shares may, in these cases, be
related to the dissolution of the Soviet Union. A further two of the
countries (the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic) were parts
of the former Czechoslovakia, and the dissolution of this country,
along with the transition away from a planned economy, may have
likewise affected their urban shares. For the remaining six countries
(Iraq, Mauritius, Papua New Guinea, Sri Lanka, the United Arab
Emirates, and Zambia), a number have unconventional or changing definitions of an urban area. For example, Papua New Guinea’s
definition of an urban area is a center with 500 inhabitants or more,
an unusually small threshold, while the United Arab Emirates’
urban population is measured as the population of nine cities.
55. Satterthwaite 2007.
56. United Nations 2006c.
57. This conclusion is based on historical estimate of U.S. urban
population growth derived by combining historical data on urban
shares from Bairoch and Goertz (1986) with historical data on
country population sizes from Maddison (2008b).
58. Gwatkin and others 2007.
59. Gwatkin and others 2007.
60. Woods 2000.
61. Williams and Galley 1995.
62. Orwell 1937.
63. Crafts 2008.
64. Williamson 1990.
65. Stockel 2002.
66. Kim and Margo 2004.
Chapter 2
1. Armstrong and Taylor 2000. See, in particular, chapter 8.
2. Beaumier 1998.
3. Krugman (1991a), pp. 11–13.
4. See, for example, Barro and Sala-I-Martin (2004).
5. OECD (2007), p. 14.
6. Blanchard and Katz 1992.
7. OECD (2006), p. 13.

10/9/08 11:44:42 PM

Endnotes

8. France’s National Statistics Office’s Web site (www.insee.fr/fr/
default.asp).
9. Länder National Accounts Working Group (http://www
.statistik-portal.de).
10. This pattern is familiar to development specialists as the
“Kuznets curve,” named for the Nobel economist Simon Kuznets.
Although the Kuznets curve depicts a relationship between a country’s economic development and its interpersonal income inequality, the hypothesis Kuznets forwarded to explain this relationship
corresponds to that underlying the relationship between spatial
inequality and development documented in this chapter.
11. Poncet 2006.
12. Buys, Deichmann, and Wheeler 2006.
13. Poncet 2005.
14. Poncet 2006.
15. Tobler 1970.
16. Angeriz, McCombie, and Roberts 2008.
17. Lipsey and Nakamura 2006.
18. Henderson, Kuncoro, and Nasution 1996.
19. Deichmann and others forthcoming.
20. Henderson, Shalizi, and Venables 2001.
21. U.S. Bureau Census, various years.
22. Aghion and Williamson (1998), pp. 144–51.
23. Taylor and Williamson 2006.
24. Angeriz, McCombie, and Roberts 2008.
25. Fingleton 2003.
26. Deichmann and others 2005.
27. Hering and Poncet 2006.
28. Da Mata and others 2007.
29. Paillacar 2007.
30. Head and Mayer 2006.
31. Collier 2007.
32. Estimates generated from Nordhaus’s Geographically Based
Economic Database (http://gecon.yale.edu/), compiled from information gathered in 1990.
33. Time-series data on spatial concentration were assembled
for 10 countries—some, however, with only two observations.
Countries in the sample are Canada (1890–2006), Spain (1850–
2000), France (1801–1999), the Netherlands (1850–2006), Japan
(1900–2000), United States (1960–2000), Brazil (1960–2004), Chile
(1975–2004), Thailand (1975–2004), Indonesia (1989–2005), and
the Philippines (1980–2005. Except France, Spain, and the Netherlands, where population is used, economic mass is measured based
on GDP. Data come from a variety of sources. But, as explained
below, this combination of information sources does not constitute a significant problem because the concentration measure—a
ratio—is robust to various indicators.
34. In what follows, the concentration measure is defined
according to the following method. First, we estimate an area’s
hypothetical share of national GDP under the assumption that this
GDP exhibits a uniform spatial distribution. Second, we identify
the area with the highest actual share of national GDP. Third, we
divide the actual GDP share of this leading area by its hypothetical
(uniformly spatially distributed) share to get our measure of spatial
concentration. For example, if the leading area has an actual share
of 10 percent and a hypothetical share of 2 percent, then the measure of concentration is equal to 5.

WDR09_20_Endnotes.indd 293

293

35. The concentration measure in this section focuses only on
the level of concentration (density) in the leading area of each
country. It does not provide information for the spatial distribution
of density across the remaining areas.
36. GDP per capita figures are taken from Maddison (2008b).
37. Krugman (1991a), pp. 11–13.
38. Ingram and Whitehead 2008.
39. The source of information is a set of more than 120 household surveys in 75 countries, with some countries having two years
of observations. For each country and year, we estimate household
consumption for individual households. In some countries, only
household incomes are available. Then, we aggregate the household
consumption into total household consumption for each census
region of the country. The concentration measure for a country is
proxied by the highest regional share of total household consumption.
40. The source of information is Yale University’s William Nordhaus’s Geographically Based Economic Database (http://gecon.yale.
edu/). This database of population, gross product, and land area of
subnational areas covers more than 90 countries.
41. In cross-country comparisons, use of a standardized grid cell
helps avoid the cross-level fallacy, in which the number of partitions can affect the variance of the measure. Like the procedure for
estimating the spatial Gini coefficient, we rank the terrestrial grid
cells in descending order according to their GDP density and plot
the cumulative land area on the horizontal axis against cumulative
gross product on the vertical axis. Then a polynomial function is
fitted to the data to predict the share of GDP within the densest 5
percent of the country’s land area.
42. Spatial Gini coefficients consider the distribution of density
across a country’s entire land area. The coefficient equals zero if
economic density is evenly distributed across space, while it equals
one if all production takes place within a single terrestrial grid cell.
Spatial Gini coefficients of GDP density are computed in three
steps. First, grid cells are ranked in descending order according to
density of economic mass (GDP per square kilometer). Second,
cumulative shares of land area are derived, plus a corresponding
series of cumulative shares of GDP, by grid cell. Third, these two
measures are plotted against each other to produce a Lorenz curve,
and the spatial Gini coefficient is calculated as the ratio of the area
between the uniform distribution line and the Lorenz curve to the
area below the uniform distribution line.
43. Krugman 1993.
44. Based on constant 1990 international Geary-Khamis dollars
in Maddison (2008b).
45. The coefficient of variation increased from 0.107 to 0.148
(Crafts 2005).
46. Comparison based on GDP per capita figures from Maddison (2008b).
47. Roberts 2004.
48. Barro and Sala-I-Martin 1992.
49. Green 1969.
50. We define the welfare measure as per capita gross cell product, and spatial disparity as the ratio of the highest-to-lowest per
capita gross cell product. Other measures of spatial inequality—
such as the difference between the 90th percentile and the 10th percentile and that between the mean for the top 10 grid cells and the

10/9/08 11:44:43 PM

294

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

mean for the bottom 10 grid cells—and coefficients of variation
show similar stylized patterns.
51. For each country and year, we estimate a Mincerian-type
regression with per capita household consumption as the dependent variable, a set of location dummies as the independent variables, and standard observable household characteristics (such as
household size and household head’s education, gender, age, and
marital status) as control variables. The location variables are broad
census regions. The difference between the maximal and minimal
coefficients on the location dummy variables is our disparity measure in consumption between leading and lagging areas, purely
because of location.
52. We estimate the relationship between spatial disparity
and GDP per capita by pooling the disparity estimates from each
household survey in a regression analysis that also controls for the
number of census regions within each country and each country’s
land area. The inverse relationship between spatial disparities in
consumption and the level of development was found to be robust
to various model specifications (to the use of different sets of control variables).
53. These estimates are in 2000 U.S. dollars for the years of the
household surveys during the 2000s.
54. Yemtsov 2005.
55. Kanbur and Zhang 2005; Milanovic 2005.
56. Demurger and others 2002.
57. World Bank 2007.
58. Georgia was the only country in the region not to enjoy a
reduction in absolute poverty over the period. Douthat, Poe, and
Cutler (2006), p. 52, and World Bank (2005e).
59. Ferreira 2000.
60. GDP per capita figures taken from Maddison 2008b.
61. Naudé and Krugell 2006.
62. Cárdenas and Pontón 1995.
63. Hill, Resosudarmo, and Vidyattama 2007.
64. Wisaweisuan forthcoming.
65. Son forthcoming.
66. Based on United Nations (1997) and United Nations
(2005).
67. Garcia-Verdu 2005; Fuentes and Montes 2004.
68. Public Administration Research and Consultation Centre
(PARC) 2004.
69. Government of India Planning Commission 2002b.
70. Sri Lanka National Council for Economic Development and
UNDP (2005).
71. Government of Sri Lanka 2008.
72. Kenya Ministry of Planning and National Development and
UNDP (2005).
73. Smith (1976), p. 122.
74. Venables 2006.
75. Chang 2005.
76. Hanson 1998b.
77. Demurger and others 2002.
78. He forthcoming.
79. Venables 2006.
80. Crafts (2005), table 4, p. 59.
81. Calculations are for 2005, based on data from the China
Statistical Yearbook (2006), (http://www.stats.gov.cn/tjsj/ndsj/2006/
indexeh.htm).

WDR09_20_Endnotes.indd 294

82. GDP per capita figures for Shanghai and Guizho have been
calculated for 2005 by multiplying the estimates for relative provincial performance by Maddison’s estimate of national GDP per
capita. The figures are in 1990 international dollars. Comparisons
with Britain are likewise based on Maddison’s data from Maddison
(2008b).
Chapter 3
1. Figures are based on Maddison (2006). Between 1820 and
1998, GDP increased from $694.4 billion to $33,725.9 billion in
1990 international dollars. Population during that time grew from
1.04 billion to 5.3 billion, a fivefold increase at about 1 percent per
year.
2. These estimates are based on the G-Econ project database
assembled at Yale University (see Nordhaus 2006). The database
provides estimates for 1990 of GDP, population, and land area of
regular grid cells that are about 100 by 100 kilometers at the equator. These figures likely underestimate actual concentration.
3. Ohmae 1990.
4. The numbers include land borders between nation-states
only. So, borders between colonies in the nineteenth or early twentieth century are not considered.
5. Blake 2005.
6. The measure summarizes four indicators representing
restrictions to the flow of goods, capital, people, and ideas: (1)
average tariffs (World Bank data), (2) capital openness (Chinn
and Ito 2006), (3) proportion of countries that need a visa to visit
that country (Neumayer 2006), and (4) a press freedom index
that includes information such as Internet filtering (Reporters
without Borders for Press Freedom 2007). These measures are
discussed in more detail later in the chapter. All indicators were
normalized and rescaled from more open to more closed borders and summed. An index based on rank sizes provides similar
results. The data typically refer to 2005 or 2006, but in a few
instances they refer to 2004. For a few countries with only three
of the four indicators were available, the missing values were
replaced by the overall mean. Among the larger countries, this
affected Afghanistan, Cuba, the Democratic Republic of Congo,
Serbia and Montenegro, Tajikistan, and the Republic of Yemen.
The index captures many but not all barriers and divisions. For
instance, incompatible laws and regulations can have an impact
on country well-being.
7. There are several globalization indexes that capture similar
aspects of international barriers. One example is the KOF Index of
Globalization (globalization.kof.ethz.ch). However, these indexes
typically mix country regulations such as tariff levels with outcome
variables such as the share of exports in GDP. For the illustrative
analysis in this chapter, we are strictly interested in how countries
themselves manage economic interaction.
8. See McCallum (1995) and Helliwell (2002).
9. Anderson and van Wincoop 2003; 2004.
10. Bhagwati and Srinivasan 2002; Alcalá and Ciccone 2004.
11. Rodriguez and Rodrik 2000; Slaughter 2001.
12. World Bank 2007j.
13. Kee, Nicita, and Olarreaga (2006) develop measures of
trade restrictions that include some of these aspects. Available for
a smaller set of countries than the average tariff index, this subset
shows a high correlation with the average tariff index.

10/9/08 11:44:43 PM

Endnotes

14. See Chinn and Ito (2006). The Chinn-Ito index of capital
openness is derived from the IMF’s Annual Report on Exchange
Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions (AREAER). It is the first
principle component of four binary variables reported: existence
of multiple exchange rates, restrictions on current account, capital
account transactions, and requirement of the surrender of export
proceeds. See Chinn and Ito (2006). The original index values were
rescaled between 0 (lowest restrictions among all countries) and
100 (highest restrictions). The regional averages are unweighted.
15. McKenzie 2001; Kose, Prasad, Rogoff, and Wei 2006; Chinn
and Ito 2006; Henry 2007.
16. Quinn and Toyoda 2006.
17. Bekaerta, Harvey, and Lundblad 2005.
18. Kose, Prasad, Rogoff, and Wei 2006.
19. Pritchett 2006.
20. Quantifying these benefits is difficult. But a recent study
estimates that a 3 percent increase in the labor force of industrial
countries could provide a $356 billion gain (World Bank 2005).
21. Pritchett 2006.
22. Neumayer 2006.
23. McKenzie 2007.
24. Linden, Kraemer, and Dedrick 2007. Another example of the
importance of knowledge-intensive activities is given by Oppenheimer (2008): Of each cup of Latin American–grown coffee that
U.S. consumers buy, only 3 percent of the price goes to the region’s
farmers. The rest funds genetic engineering, processing, branding,
marketing, and other knowledge-based activities, which are mostly
based outside the region.
25. Criscuolo, Haskel, and Slaughter 2004.
26. Brunettia and Weder 2003; Keefer and Khemani 2005.
27. Data available online at www.rsf.org.
28. Gallup, Sachs, and Mellinger 1999.
29. See Collier 2007.
30. Alesina and Spolaore (2003), p. 81.
31. Winters and Martins 2004.
32. Bertram 2004; World Bank 2006a.
33. Alesina, Devleeschauwer, Easterly, Kurlat, and Wacziarg
2003.
34. Collier 2007.
35. Spolaore and Wacziarg 2005.
36. Simmons 2006.
37. Blake 2005.
38. Collier 2003; 2007. Miguel, Satyanath, and Sergenti (2004)
show that the impact can also be in the opposite direction. Based
on data for African countries from 1981–99 and using rainfall data
to correct for potential endogeneity, they estimate that a negative
growth shock of 5 percent increases the likelihood of conflict by
one-half in the following year.
39. See endnote 2 for data source. These data by grid cells may
still underestimate concentration, because the estimates are based
on data for 1990 and high-concentration areas have likely grown
faster than low-concentration areas.
40. Maddison 2006.
41. Bairoch 1982.
42. Tilly 1990.
43. Maddison 2006.
44. See box 0.2 for definitions of WDR regions.
45. Disdier and Head 2008.

WDR09_20_Endnotes.indd 295

295

46. Leamer (2007) highlights this point.
47. Bourguignon and Morrisson 1998; World Bank 2007a.
48. Morrisson and Murtin 2005.
49. Maddison 2006.
50. Bourguignon and Morrisson 2002.
51. Collier 2007.
52. Cutler, Deaton, and Lleras-Muney (2006) discuss the drivers
of falling mortality rates that led to these increases in longevity.
53. Morrisson and Murtin 2005.
54. The inequality numbers may underestimate the true disparities in human capital outcomes. “Years of schooling” relates
only to primary and secondary education and therefore has an
inherent maximum value. Many developed countries have essentially achieved a natural maximum some time ago, but they have
made further progress in improving the quality of education and
in expanding tertiary education. Developing countries have been
catching up on primary and secondary education, but less so in
other dimensions of human capital.
55. Cohen and Soto 2007.
56. These numbers may overstate improvements somewhat,
because no data are available for several countries that are likely
among the worst performers.
57. Baumol 1986; De Long 1988; Barro and Sala-I-Martin 1992;
Quah 1996.
58. Maddison 2006. Pre-1990 data for Eastern Europe are likely
somewhat less reliable.
59. Lederman, Maloney, and Servén 2005.
60. Pallage and Robe 2003.
61. Nordhaus 2006.
62. Snow, Craig, Deichmann, and Marsh 1999.
63. Caselli 2005.
64. Easterly and Levine 2001.
65. Baldwin, Martin, and Ottaviano 2001.
66. Puga and Venables 1999; Shatz and Venables 2005.
67. Levinson 2006.
68. Economic Intelligence Unit 2007.
69. Wolf 2004. Others, however, such as Bordo, Eichengreen,
and Irwin (1999), think trade and capital markets are more integrated today.
70. Leamer 2007.
71. According to UN Comtrade data for 2004 and using figures reported by China—for example, Japan has a trade surplus in
manufacturing of US$21 billion with China, the Republic of Korea
US$34 billion, Thailand US$6 billion, the Philippines US$5 billion,
and Indonesia US$1 billion.
72. New York Times, February 22, 1999.
GIM 2
1. Baldwin and Wyplosz 2006; Crafts and Toniolo 1996.
2. Baldwin 2008.
3. Baldwin 1995.
Chapter 4
1. Smith (1976), p. 21.
2. See Glaeser, Kolko, and Saiz 2001; Sinai and Waldfogel 2004.
3. Discussion of agglomeration economies dates as far back as
Smith’s consideration of specialization and the division of labor
(Smith (1976)); Marshall’s information spillovers, searching and

10/9/08 11:44:43 PM

296

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

matching processes, and input-sharing (Marshall (1890)); and
more recently, interindustry supply linkages (Chinitz (1961));
learning-by-doing (Arrow (1962)); and cross-fertilization of ideas
and innovation (Jacobs (1970)).
4. McCann (2001), p. 56.
5. See, for example, Henderson (1986); Henderson, Kuncoro,
and Turner (1995); Nakamura (1985); Hammond and von Hagen
(1994); Sveikauskas, Gowdy, and Funk (1988); Greytak and Blackley (1985); Glaeser and others (1992); and Bernstein and Nadiri
(1988).
6. Prateen 1988.
7. Junius 1997.
8. Of 27 estimated scale coefficients, 23 show increasing returns
to scale, most above 4 percent, robust to various specifications of
the production function (Griliches and Ringstad 1971, and Ringstad 1978).
9. Baldwin and Gorecki 1986.
10. Owen (1983) for Europe, and Scherer (1980) and Hall (1988;
1990) for the United States.
11. Industry-level scale returns in the range of 1.30 are found
for many U.S. manufacturing industries (see Paul and Siegel 1999),
and Chilean plant-level data for eight industries exhibit a comparable scale elasticity of between 1.20 and 1.44 (Levinsohn and Petrin
1999).
12. Antweiler and Trefler (2002) for 71 countries over the period
1972–92.
13. The average scale elasticity estimate of 1.051 is within the
bounds of estimates in the United States (Basu and Fernald 1997)
and in Canada (Fuss and Gupta 1981).
14. See Roeger (1995) for the United States, and Martins, Scarpetta, and Pilat (1996) for the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.
15. Junius 1997.
16. Roeger 1995.
17. Hughes and Mester (1998) detect that, as scale increases,
banks economize on resources to manage risks, preserve capital,
and signal institutional strength. Calem (1994) and Hughes and
others (1999) suggest that geographic expansion of bank branches
produces scale efficiency gains from lower deposit volatility, higher
expected returns, and more diversified risk. There is also evidence
of increasing returns to scale in data processing activities (for example, Hancock, Humphrey, and Wilcox (1999) for payment system).
18. Bossone and Lee (2004), using a sample of 875 commercial
banks drawn from the FitchLBCA’s Bank Scope database.
19. Named after three economists: Alfred Marshall, Kenneth
Arrow, and Paul Romer (Glaeser and others 1992).
20. Hanson 1996.
21. See www.referenceforbusiness.com/industries/Textile-Mill/
Women-s-Full-Length-Knee.html.
22. Donsky 1990.
23. U.S. Bureau of Census website.
24. Henderson (1986), based on cross-sectional data for the
United States and Brazil.
25. Jacobs 1970.
26. Henderson, Kuncoro, and Turner 1995. Henderson (1997a)
finds the largest effects on productivity from own-industry employment are lagged two to five years, because it takes time to learn from
neighbors. Jaffe, Trajtenberg, and Henderson (1993) corroborate

WDR09_20_Endnotes.indd 296

the slow diffusion over space of location- and industry-specific
information.
27. Carlton 1983; Wheeler and Mody 1992; Carlino 1979; and
Hay (1979) find that concentration of industrial activity is favorable for influencing U.S. firms investment and location decisions.
28. World Bank 2006c.
29. Burchfield and others 2006.
30. Instituto de Pesquisa Economica Aplicada (ipeadata.gov.br).
31. Data from World Bank (2007j).
32. Devereux, Griffith, and Simpson (2004) for the United Kingdom; Ellison and Glaeser (1997) for the United States; and Maurel
and Sédillot (1999) for France.
33. Rosenthal and Strange 2004.
34. Kim 1995.
35. Duranton and Overman 2002.
36. Henderson, Shalizi, and Venables 2001.
37. Henderson, Shalizi, and Venables 2001.
38. Henderson, Lee, and Lee 2001.
39. Krugman (1991b) notes that “the most spectacular examples
of localization in today’s world are, in fact, based on services rather
than manufacturing . . . and technology . . . will promote more
localization of services” (p. 66).
40. In 2004, the rest of the nonfarm employment went to transport and trade (22 percent) and forestry, utilities, and construction
(7 percent) (Kolko 2007).
41. Audretsch and Feldman 1996.
42. Feldman (1994) documents that, in the United States, services, such as innovative or knowledge-intensive activity, are far
more densely packed than manufacturing. Audretsch and Feldman
(1996), using a count of new product introductions by the Small
Business Administration in 1982, find that knowledge-oriented
industries have more spatially concentrated innovative activity.
Dekle and Eaton (1999) provide evidence that external economies from clustering are even stronger for business services than
for manufacturing activities. Feldman and Audretsch (1999) find
that sectors in which R&D, university research, and skilled labor are
important inputs tend to be more spatially concentrated.
43. Kolko 2007.
44. Fafchamps and Desmet 2000.
45. Desmet and Fafchamps 2006.
46. At the upper tail of the distribution, however, the opposite is
true, with large cities losing jobs in favor of intermediate size urban
areas (Carlino and Chatterjee 2001; Desmet and Fafchamps 2003).
47. Kolko 1998.
48. Martin, R. 2005.
49. See, for example, Holmes and Stevens (2002).
50. Head, Reis, and Swenson (1995) and Smith Jr. and Florida
(1994) find strong preferences of Japanese automotive assemblers to locate near each other to take advantage of backward and
forward linkages. Hammond and von Hagen (1994) examining
employment in four U.S. cities and three two-digit industries, find
that labor-sharing tends to be stronger in expanding markets while
asset-sharing is more important in mature markets. Holmes (1999)
offers the most direct and compelling evidence of input-sharing as a
source of agglomeration economies: the pantyhose industry is concentrated in North Carolina with 62 percent of national employment, and purchased input intensity of 53 percent, compared with
40 percent nationally. This pattern is found for other concentrated

10/9/08 11:44:43 PM

Endnotes

industries as well. Holmes (1999) examines the textile industry,
finding evidence in support of input-sharing. In particular, he finds
a positive relationship between the size of the textile industry at a
location and the presence of local specialized input suppliers to the
industry.
51. Costa and Kahn 2000.
52. See Bikhchandani, Hirshleifer, and Welch (1998), and Sobel
(2000) for surveys of the literature on social learning.
53. Marshall (1890) emphasizes how cities favor the diffusion
of innovations and ideas while Jacobs (1970) stresses how the environment offered by cities improves the prospects for generating
new ideas. Lucas Jr. (1988) also suggests that learning encompasses,
not just of cutting-edge technology, but incremental mundane
knowledge (knowing how, knowing who, etc.) through intended
and unintended communications, and cities are the best place for
knowledge transmission.
54. Marshall 1890.
55. Jaffe, Trajtenberg, and Henderson 1993. Jaffe (1986) finds
evidence for local research and development (R&D) spillovers
among 432 U.S. firms where the number of patents per dollar of
R&D spending is higher for firms located in areas with above-average R&D spending.
56. Rauch (1993) shows that wages are higher where average
education levels are high, because workers will be more productive
and employers will be willing to pay high wages in competing for
them. Moretti (2004a) finds a positive effect of college graduates
on a city’s wages. Charlot and Duranton (2004) use survey data to
show that workplace communication is more extensive in urban
areas and that this communication increases wages.
57. This is known as the home market effects in the literature.
58. Holmes and Stevens (2002) look at the relationship between
firm size and city size across county-industries in the United States,
and interpret their findings as evidence of increased productivity
associated with concentration that allows the plants to become
larger.
59. Holmes 1999; Henderson 2005a.
60. Davis and Weinstein (1999), examining production across
Japanese prefectures, find that an industry‘s production is concentrated where the demand for that industry‘s good is relatively
high. Wheat (1986) and Glaeser and others (1992) find evidence
that manufacturing employment grows faster in subnational areas
with more rapid population growth. Justman (1994) finds strong
positive comovements of local supply and local demand for manufacturing industries in U.S. cities.
61. See, for example, Shefer (1973); Mera (1973); Segal (1976);
Kawashima (1975); Sveikauskas (1975); Moomaw (1981) and
Moomaw (1983); and Bartelsman, Caballero, and Lyons (1994).
62. Henderson, Shalizi, and Venables 2001).
63. As Glaeser and others (1992) observe “intellectual breakthroughs must cross hallways and streets more easily than oceans
and continents” (p. 1127).
64. Feldman and Audretsch 1999.
65. Angeriz, McCombie, and Roberts 2008.
66. On this point see Feldman and Audretsch (1999), pp.
409–29.
67. On this point see Venables (2006), pp. 61–85.
68. There were, of course, some exceptions, most notably in the
work of Young (1928) and Kaldor (see, for example, Kaldor 1972).

WDR09_20_Endnotes.indd 297

297

These economists failed, however, to provide the technical solutions
associated with the modeling of increasing returns to scale.
69. Krugman 1991b.
70. Warsh (2006) provides an entertaining and accurate account
of intellectual progress in dealing with increasing returns to scale.
The advances are based on the special features of ideas, highlighted
elegantly in Romer (1994). An idea, once developed, may be used
costlessly by others as a starting point for new ideas, making it
“nonrival,” unlike labor, capital, land, and other inputs for production. Though ideas are nonrival, however, they are generally neither free nor nonexcludable. Coming up with useful ideas usually
requires effort, and through secrecy or the enforcement of intellectual property rights, it is possible to exclude people from using ideas
to improve products or production processes, even if temporarily.
This excludability results in knowledge that confers a monopoly
power on the creators of the knowledge. By adding knowledge
explicitly to formulations of economic growth, economists are able
to recognize the centrality of ideas and the importance of increasing returns, but this also requires recognizing the proliferation of
imperfect competition.
71. Dixit and Stiglitz 1977.
72. Henderson 1974.
73. Black and Henderson 1999; Calem and Carlino 1991;
Combes 2000; Desmet and Fafchamps 2006; Duranton and Puga
2005; Duranton and Puga 2004; Feldman and Audretsch 1999;
Fujita and Ishii 1999; and Glaeser and others 1992.
74. Glaeser and Maré 2001; Henderson 1986; Henderson, Kuncoro, and Turner 1995; Henderson 1997b; Henderson 1997a; Henderson 2003b; Moomaw 1981; Moomaw 1983; Kolko 1999; Nakamura 1985; Rosenthal and Strange 2001; Rosenthal and Strange
2003; Sveikauskas, Gowdy, and Funk 1988.
75. Black and Henderson 1999; Dumais, Ellison, and Glaeser
2002; Eaton and Eckstein 1997; Henderson 1997a; Henderson
2003a; and Kim 1995.
76. This has been recognized in geography as long ago as since
Christaller (1933) and Lösch (1940).
77. Duranton and Puga 2000.
78. Henderson (1997b) for the United States, Fujita and Ishii
(1999) for Japan, and Kolko (1999) and Henderson, Lee, and Lee
(2001) for the Republic of Korea.
79. Henderson 1997b.
80. Glaeser, Scheinkman, and Schleifer 1995; Fafchamps and
Desmet 2000.
81. Henderson 2005b and Henderson, Kuncoro, and Nasution
1996.
82. Glaeser and Kahn 2001.
83. Diversity is measured by the inverse of the Herfindal Index
of local employment shares of different sectors.
84. Feldman and Audretsch 1999.
85. Fujita and Ishii 1999 and Duranton and Puga 2001.
86. Duranton and Puga 2005.
87. Chandler Jr. 1977 and Kim 1999.
88. Toffler 1980; Naisbitt 1995; Negroponte 1995; and Knoke
1996.
89. Feldman and Audretsch 1999 and Venables 2006.
90. Kolko 2000.
91. Glaeser and others 1992; Henderson, Kuncoro, and Turner
1995.

10/9/08 11:44:43 PM

298

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

92. Black and Henderson (2003) show that cities that dramatically grew (the Phoenix population multiplied 10-fold during
1950–90) or shrank (the Detroit population halved during the same
period) are the exceptions, as relative sizes of U.S. cities have been
stable over the last century. Eaton and Eckstein (1997) and Dobkins and Ioannides (2001) also find a pattern of overall stability in
France, Japan, and the United States. They observe that the relative
populations of the top 40 urban areas in France (1876–1990) and
Japan (1925–85) remained essentially unchanged.
93. Henderson (1997b). Kim (1995) shows a high (0.64) correlation coefficient of regional localization for two-digit industries in
the United States between 1860 and 1987 at the state level. Dumais,
Ellison, and Glaeser (2002) also find that, for most industries,
agglomeration patterns were strikingly stable over 1972–92. Henderson (2003a) finds stable specialization patterns over 30 years in
a study of nine three-digit industries.
94. See, Dunne, Roberts, and Samuelson (1989b); Dunne, Roberts, and Samuelson (1989a); Davis and Haltiwanger (1992); and
Herzog Jr. and Schlottmann (1991).
95. Brezis and Krugman 1997.
96. Henderson, Kuncoro, and Turner 1995.
97. Van der Linde 2003.
98. Kolko 1998.
99. United Nations (2006c), Fact Sheet 9.
100. Gribbin (2000), pp. 30–31.
101. Quote from a top UN official, Lars Reutersward, Nairobibased director of the UN Human Settlements Program.
102. Quoting Lars Reutersward in Ward 2006.
103. United Nations 2004b.
104. Gill and Kharas 2007.
105. Au and Henderson 2006a.
106. Rosenthal and Strange 2004 cited from Hoover and Vernon
1959.
107. Santos and Shaffer 2004.
108. McCrae 2006.
109. World Bank 2002a.
Chapter 5
1. Bureau of Transport Statistics 2003.
2. While returns to capital vary by place (between urban and
rural areas, leading and lagging regions, and rich and poor countries), lower marginal returns in a given location can be explained
by inadequate complementary factors (Caselli and Feyrer 2007).
3. In 2000 China sent only 458,000 migrants abroad, while 120
million people migrated internally. In the second half of 1990s,
fewer than 300,000 people emigrated from Vietnam, while 4.3 million people migrated internally. See Anh, Tacoli, and Thanh (2003)
in Deshingkar and Grimm (2004).
4. Migration from rural areas to cities accounts for only about
a third for the growth of urban areas worldwide. Nam, Serow, and
Sly (1990) and Deshingkar and Grimm (2004) show that the largest
flows of internal migrants in developing countries are from rural
areas to other rural areas. In India, where permanent migration
seems to have stabilized, temporary “circular” migration—particularly by workers in poor households—is increasing.
5. More than half the migrants to the United States come from
Central and South America. About the same portion of migrants to
the EU-15 come from Europe and Central Asia. And up to 70 per-

WDR09_20_Endnotes.indd 298

cent of migrants to Japan come from other countries in East Asia
and the Pacific.
6. The largest share of emigrants in Sub-Saharan Africa (more
than 63 percent) and South Asia (34 percent) settle in countries
within the same region, typically in an adjacent country. See Ratha
and Shaw (2007). This phenomenon is in part a colonial legacy,
because borders were drawn arbitrarily across traditional lands
dividing long-standing trading partners and even people of the
same ethnic groups.
7. Obstfeld, Shambaugh, and Taylor 2004.
8. Taylor 1996; Obstfeld and Taylor 2002.
9. See Caselli and Feyrer 2007.
10. See de Blij (2005) for a review of the geographic and climatic
drivers of early migrations.
11. See Massey (2003) for a review of the modern history of
international migration.
12. Comparable statistics of emigration from European countries and Japan are available in Massey (1988).
13. Massey (1988) calculates a correlation coefficient of 0.59
between the onset of industrialization (proxied by the year when
rail track exceeded 1,000 kilometers), and the initiation of largescale international movement of labor (defined as the period when
emigration first exceeded 10,000 people).
14. See the International Organization of Immigration (IOM)
Web page for updated statistics, at http://www.iom.org. An international migrant is defined as a person living in a country other than
where he or she was born (Ozden and Schiff 2007).
15. Massey 2003.
16. Ratha and Shaw 2007.
17. The notable exceptions are Australia, because of isolation,
and Israel, because of the religious and political nature of the decision to immigrate.
18. Experts point out that although appealing to governments in
high-income countries, selective immigration policies are probably
not transferable to other popular destinations. A crucial element to
the viability of these policies in Canada and Australia is the relative
geographic isolation of these countries, which makes movement
across their borders easier to monitor and control.
19. Timmer and Williamson (1998), cited in Massey (2003).
20. The best data currently available are still likely to underestimate the internal mobility of labor. Census and survey data used
to track internal migration are notoriously inadequate. Census
and survey instruments typically fail to capture seasonal movement to part-time and temporary jobs; movement of migrants
who find jobs in the informal economy or who reside in informal
settlements; and movement between rural areas. For a detailed discussion of the limitations of data on internal migration see Nam,
Serow, and Sly (1990), Lucas (1997), Bell (2003), and Deshingkar
and Grimm (2004).
21. Lucas (1997) cites quantitative studies by Connell and others (1976) and Skeldon (1986) to support this assertion.
22. Rodriguez 2004.
23. Deshingkar and Grimm (2004) give a detailed description
of biases in data collection instruments that lead to a systematic
underestimation of rural-to-rural migration, and particularly of
temporary “circular” migration, which leads to the “invisibility”
of a large portion of internally labor movements to policy makers that is captured only in qualitative village-level studies. Lucas

10/9/08 11:44:44 PM

Endnotes

(1997) points out that the failure of the early literature on internal migration to capture the dominant rural-to-rural movement
can be explained by the greater visibility of urban growth, and
by the portrayal of rural sectors in the early theoretical models
as homogenous, within which migration did not confer any real
benefits.
24. Borjas 1990; Borjas, Bronars, and Trejo 1992; Dunlevy and
Bellante 1983.
25. Deshingkar and Grimm 2004; United Nations 2006b.
26. Lucas 1997; 2003; McKenzie and Rapoport 2007.
27. Schiff and Özden 2006.
28. Docquier 2006.
29. Lucas 1997.
30. Solow 1956; Swan 1956.
31. Romer 1986; Lucas Jr. 1988.
32. A recent comprehensive review of economic theories and
empirical evidence on internal labor migration is available in Lall,
Selod, and Shalizi (2006), on which this subsection is based.
33. Todaro 1969.
34. Harris and Todaro 1970.
35. Lucas 1997.
36. Cole and Sanders 1985; Packard 1997.
37. Romer (1986) and Lucas Jr. (1988), originally delivered as an
address in 1985.
38. Lucas Jr. 1988.
39. Lucas Jr. (1988) with an acknowledgment of Jacobs (1970).
40. Moretti 2004b; Rosenthal and Strange 2004; Ciccone and
Peri 2006.
41. As discussed in other chapters of this Report, urban economics provide a range of arguments in favor of clustering that are independent of spillovers to human capital. For example, cities provide
the large markets for producers to exploit productivity gains from
scale, as shown by Faini (1996), as well as “thick” labor markets that
lower hiring costs for employers. Clustering workers adds to growth
by increasing backward and forward linkages, as shown by Adelman
and Robinson (1978) in a study of the Republic of Korea.
42. Clemens, Montenegro, and Pritchett 2008.
43. Ratha and Xu 2008.
44. Pritchett 2006.
45. Andrews, Clark, and Whittaker 2007.
46. Cited in Andrews, Clark, and Whittaker (2007).
47. In the United States, rates of internal migration among the
native born declined from 1850 to 1940 but accelerated significantly
thereafter coinciding with the rapid rate of economic growth after
World War II. See Rosenbloom and Sundstrom (2003).
48. Schmertmann 1992.
49. Fujita and Tabuchi 1997.
50. Xenos 2004.
51. Anh 2003.
52. Timmins 2005.
53. Au and Henderson 2006a; 2006b.
54. Shukla and Stark 1986.
55. For evidence on nineteenth-century labor market integration in the United States, see Lebergott (1964) and Margo (2000).
56. Coe and Emery 2004.
57. Hunt 1986.
58. Gallaway and Vedder 1971.
59. Rosenbloom and Sundstrom 2003.

WDR09_20_Endnotes.indd 299

299

60. McInnis 1966.
61. European Commission 2007.
62. Decressin and Fatás (1994) examine regional labor markets
dynamics in Europe and the United States. They analyze the adjustment mechanisms that a typical region’s specific shock triggers in
regional labor markets. In Europe they find that for the first three
years, most of the shock is absorbed by changes in the participation rate, while in the United States, it is immediately reflected in
migration.
63. Tabuchi 1988.
64. Barro and Sala-I-Martin 1992; Brown 1997.
65. Fujita and Tabuchi 1997. However, the authors observe that
inequality then rose in a third stage, after 1975, as the impact of
agglomeration economies accelerated income growth in large metropolitan areas, such as Tokyo.
66. De Brauw and Giles (2008) on China, and McKenzie and
Rapoport (2007) on Mexico.
67. Overseas Development Institute 2006.
68. Soto and Torche 2004.
69. Timmins 2005.
70. Koola and Özden 2008.
71. Beegle, De Weerdt, and Dercon 2008.
72. Adams Jr. (2006) as cited in Özden and Schiff (2007).
73. Acosta, Fajnzylber, and Lopez (2007) in Özden and Schiff
(2007).
74. Yang 2008.
75. World Bank 2007k.
76. Garrett 2005.
77. De Brauw and Giles 2008.
78. Zhu and Luo 2008.
79. Iliffe (1995) on the historical impact of drought on population distribution in Africa; Bryceson (1999) on the Sahel and
Sudan; Hardoy and Satterthwaite (1989) on Mauritania.
80. Wandschneider and Mishra (2003), cited in Deshingkar and
Grimm (2004), on the drought-induced migration of 60,000 people out of Bolangir, in the Indian state of Orissa, in 2001.
81. Venables and Kanbur 2005.
82. Deshingkar and Grimm 2004; Rodriguez 2004.
83. Docquier, Beine, and Rapoport 2006.
84. Docquier 2006.
85. Easterly and Nyarko 2008.
86. Sahn and Stifel 2003.
87. Anderson and Pomfret 2005.
Chapter 6
1. Some of these trends were due to the rise in trade with Europe
as a share of GDP. But non-European trade declined even as a share
of GDP.
2. Krugman 1991b; see also Krugman 2007.
3. See, for example, Antweiler and Trefler (2002), who find that
international trade is fueled as much by scale economies as by differences in factor endowments.
4. Limão and Venables 2001.
5. Gallup, Sachs, and Mellinger 1999.
6. World Bank 2007d.
7. Anderson and van Wincoop 2004.
8. It has also meant a change in long-distance trade, mainly in a
rise in manufacturing exports (based on differences in labor abun-

10/9/08 11:44:44 PM

300

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

dance) and a fall in the share of agricultural goods (based on climatic differences) from developing countries.
9. Rostow 1960.
10. Williamson 1974.
11. Mitchell 1964.
12. Crafts, Mills, and Mulatu 2007.
13. Metzer 1974.
14. Hurd 1975.
15. Roy 2002.
16. Mohammed and Williamson 2004.
17. Harley 1980.
18. O’Rourke and Williamson 1994.
19. Yasuba 1978.
20. Krueger 2006.
21. Baldwin and Martin 1999.
22. Krugman 2007.
23. Combes and Lafourcade 2005. Costs are approximated by
ad valorem shares of trade values between geographic regions and
distance and take into account that the real price for transportation
depends on the physical transportation network, technology, traffic
conditions, and structure of the market for transport services.
24. Ivaldi and McCullough 2007.
25. Gordon 1990.
26. Hummels 2007.
27. United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
(various years).
28. Tolofari 1986.
29. Button 1999.
30. United Nations 1970.
31. Gilman 1984.
32. Tramp prices are set in competitive markets and quoted in
U.S. dollars. Two deflators are used to compute the development of
real prices: the U.S. GDP deflator and the price index for bulk commodities that typically are shipped by tramp.
33. Levinson 2006.
34. Hummels 2007.
35. Harrigan 2005.
36. Hummels 2001.
37. Evans and Harrigan 2005. For a similar analysis on trade
between East and West Europe compare Nordas, Pinali, and Grosso
(2006).
38. Harrigan and Venables 2006.
39. Krugman 1995; Venables 2001.
40. Freund and Weinhold 2004.
41. Fink, Mattoo, and Neagu 2005.
42. Rauch 1999.
43. Antras, Garicano, and Rossi-Hansberg 2006.
44. Rajan and Wei 2004.
45. Amiti and Wei 2005.
46. Bairoch 1988.
47. Christaller 1966.
48. Feenstra and Hanson 1997.
49. Evans and Harrigan 2005.
50. Duranton and Puga 2004.
51. Leamer and Storper 2001.
52. Storper and Venables 2007.
53. Winston 1993.
54. Nikomborirak 2007.

WDR09_20_Endnotes.indd 300

55. Hulten, Bennathan, and Srinivasan (2003), summarized
in Hummels, Lugovsky, and Skiba (2007). Scale economies in the
manufacturing sector derive from the benefits of many independent producers with relatively small market shares moving close
together and interacting (monopolistic competition). Indivisibility
and network effects, by contrast, favor monopolies or oligopolies
in which one or a few providers generate scale economies that are
internal to a private or public transport provider that dominates a
port, airport, or railway.
56. Estache, Gonzalez, and Trujillo 2002.
57. Hulten 2007.
58. Canning and Bennathan (2007), for example, find a large
variation across countries but a general tendency of middle-income
countries to have a deficit in infrastructure investment, in particular
road infrastructure. The macroeconomic rates of return calculated
in these studies derive from the agglomeration and specialization
benefits provided by the lowering of transport costs. These benefits
increase with an increasing level of development. See Estache and
Fay (2007) for a review of these studies.
59. Brushett 2005.
60. Wilson, Mann, and Otsuki 2004.
61. Wilson, Luo, and Broadman 2006.
62. World Bank 2008.
63. Evans and Harrigan 2005; Harrigan and Venables 2006.
64. Martinez-Zarzoso and Marquez-Ramos 2007.
65. Arvis, Raballand, and Marteau 2007.
66. Arnold 2006.
67. World Bank 2008.
68. Fischer, Harrington, and Parry forthcoming.
69. Nordhaus and Boyer 2000.
70. Tol 2005.
71. World Bank 2008.
GIM 3
1. Allen and others 2007.
2. Smith (1979), p. 189.
3. Kuroda 2007.
Chapter 7
1. Ravallion 2007.
2. Soto 2000.
3. De Long and Shleifer 1993.
4. A passage explicitly mentioning the land law is found in
North (1971), p. 123.
5. Wordie 1983.
6. Craft 1989; Turner 1986; Wordie 1983; Wrigley 1985.
7. Craft 1989.
8. Sokoloff and Engerman 2000b.
9. Sokoloff and Engerman 2000b.
10. Rodrik, Subramanian, and Trebbi 2004.
11. Acemoglu, Johnson, and Robinson 2001.
12. This discussion of Mumbai is drawn from Buckley, Bertaud,
and Phatak 2005; Buckley and Kalarickal 2006.
13. United Nations 2001; www.mymoneyblog.comarchives/2006.
14. World Bank 2007j; purchasing power parity adjusted per
capita gross national income (GNI).
15. Brueckener 2007; Henderson 2007.
16. Buckley and Kalarickal (2006), box 3.4.

10/9/08 11:44:44 PM

Endnotes

17. In 2002, a Ministry of Cities was established to overhaul
the regulatory framework allowing cities to more effectively manage land use and subdivision and be more responsive to changes in
market needs.
18. World Bank 2007b.
19. Chiquier, Hassler, and Lea 2004.
20. World Bank 2006d.
21. Lall and others 2004.
22. World Bank 2002a.
23. The discussion is based on the historical collection of transport
pamphlets the London School of Economics library has converted
into digital format and made available for public download (www.lse
.ac.uk/library/pamphlets/Transport/transportpamphletpages/urban_
transport.htm). These pamphlets cover London transport history
(eight pamphlets), transport policy in London (nine pamphlets), the
tramways (three pamphlets), and urban transport policy more generally (three pamphlets). These pamphlets were issued by a variety of
organizations, including private-sector providers of transport, local
political parties, and what might now be called think-tanks. See Roberts (2008), a background paper for this Report.
24. Hargan 2007.
25. Land Enquiry Commission 1914.
26. Offer (1981), p. 291.
27. GDP per capita figures have been taken from Maddison’s
(2007) historical database (http://www.ggdc.net/maddison/). They
are quoted in 1990 international Geary-Khamis dollars.
28. Bairoch and Goertz (1986), table 3, p. 288.
29. Staff City Population Database, Human Settlements
Group, International Institute for Environment and Development
(IIED).
30. Mumford 1963.
31. Dunlap 1992.
32. Lane 1860.
33. O’Gorman 1939a; 1939b.
34. Santos and Shaffer 2004.
35. Meyer 1917.
36. Victoria Transport Policy Institute 2007.
37. Pucher and others 2005.
38. World Bank 2002a.
39. Metro Bits (http://mic-ro.com/metro).
40. Booth 1901.
41. Abreu 2008, a note prepared for this Report.
42. Nesslein 2003.
43. Borgegård and Kemeny 2004.
44. Hall and Vidén 2005.
45. Swedish Council for Building Research 1990; Borgegård and
Kemeny 2004.
46. Hoffman 1996.
47. Hall 2002; Chandler 1992.
48. Chandler 1992.
48. Imparato and Ruster 2003; Abreu 2008.
50. World Bank 2007j.
51. Hall 1984.
52. Trackman, Fisher, and Salas 1999.
53. Mackay 1999; Jones and Datta 2000, based on Abreu 2008.
54. Mackay 1999, based on Abreu 2008.
55. Goodlad 1996; Mackay 1999; Jones and Datta 2000.
56. These comparisons are based on data from Maddison 2006.

WDR09_20_Endnotes.indd 301

301

57. World Urbanisation Prospects: The 2007 Revision Population
Database (http://esa.un.org/unup/).
58. Cohen and Soto 2001.
59. The discussion that follows is largely based on Oh (2008), a
note prepared for this Report.
60. The discussion that follows is based in part on Chen (2008),
a note prepared for this Report.
61. Figure derived from China Statistical Yearbook 2007.
62. World Bank 2003b; 2007k; Bertaud 2004.
63. World Urbanisation Prospects: The 2007 Revision Population
Database (http://esa.un.org/unup/).
64. Human Development and Reform Commission 2005;
Changsha-Zhuzhou-Xiangtan Cluster Regional Plan.
65. Kilroy 2007.
66. Lall 2005.
67. Lall 2005.
68. Yepes and Lall 2008.
69. Sohn 2003, based on Oh 2008.
70. Evans 2002, Sohn 2003, respectively.
71. World Urbanisation Prospects: The 2007 Revision Population
Database (http://esa.un.org/unup/).
72. Maddison 2006. GDP per capita is quoted in constant 1990
international dollars.
73. Comparisons based on urban agglomeration population
data from World Urbanisation Prospects.
74. Cohen and Soto 2007.
75. World Bank 2007j.
76. Neuwirth 2007, based on Vidler 2008.
77. BBC World Service, Thursday, April 27, 2000 (http://news.
bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/727966.stm).
78. The discussion of Turkey above is based on Vidler (2008), a
note prepared for this Report.
79. Bertaud 2003.
80. Government of India Planning Commission 2002a.
81. Selod 2007.
82. Tinbergen 1952.
Chapter 8
1. Azzoni, Menezes-Filho, Menezes, and Silveira-Neto (2000),
World Bank 1998.
2. World Bank (2007b), figure 8.2 comes from this Report.
3. World Bank 2007a.
4. Estimate based on figures reported in Maddison (2008). In
1700 India’s GDP was $90,750 million compared with a world GDP
of $371,369 million in 1990 international dollars (Maddison 2008).
5. In landlord systems, the landlord was responsible for collecting revenues from villages after retaining part of the revenue he collected; in individual systems, British government officers collected
revenue directly from cultivators; in village systems, a village community body bore the responsibility for revenue collection (Banerjee and Iyer 2005).
6. Lall, Wang, and Deichmann 2008b.
7. Government of India 2006.
8. Hunt 2000.
9. Gorzelak 2007.
10. European Commission 2002.
11. Between 1994 and 1999 structural funds allocated resources
to areas on the basis of five “objectives”: supporting development

10/9/08 11:44:44 PM

302

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

and structural adjustment of areas whose development is lagging,
helping frontier areas or parts of areas seriously affected by industrial decline, combating long-term unemployment and facilitating
labor market integration of persons excluded from the labor market, speeding adjustment of agricultural structures as part of common agriculture policy reform and structural adjustment of rural
areas, and promoting development and structural adjustment in
areas with low population density.
12. Rodríguez-Pose and Fratesi 2004.
13. European Commission 2007.
14. Objective One is to help regions (called “areas” in this
Report) whose development is lagging to catch up. Some 50 regions,
representing 22 percent of the EU’s population, are included.
15. Dall’Erba 2003.
16. Estimates suggest that resettlement costs were US$7,000 per
family in the mid-1980s (Adhiati and Bobsien 2001).
17. Davezies (2001), Martin (2005). This figure shows that the
coefficient of variation of per capita GDP (orange line, left axis)
across NUTS 2 areas in France rises between 1982 and 2002; whereas
the coefficient of variation of per capita disposable incomes falls
(blue line, right axis).
18. Morrisson and Murtin 2005.
19. United States Census Bureau 2002.
20. About $8 an hour in 2007 U.S. dollars.
21. Engel, Galetovic, and Raddatz 1998.
22. Gibson and Rozelle 2003.
23. Escobal and Torero 2000.
24. Baer 1995.
25. Stewart 2008.
26. Hill and Gaddy 2003.
27. Rolfes 2002.
28. Whalley and Zhang 2007.
29. Hewings, Feser, and Poole 2008; population figure for 1996.
30. Rephann and Isserman (1994). One of the first ex post evaluations of regional development programs ever conducted in the
United States using an experimental design.
31. Specific examples are discussed later in this chapter.
32. Andrienko and Guriev 2003.
33. Based on recent research using census micro data for Brazil
between 1960 and 2000.
34 . Margo 1988.
35. Borsch-Supan 1987.
36. Duarte, Ferreira, and Salvato Jr. 2004. The labor force in the
northeast has 4.6 years of schooling compared with the average of
6.4 years nationwide, and 7.3 years in the southeast.
37. Shah and Shen 2006.
38. They will be accountable to the higher levels of government
providing these transfers.
39. Numbers are for 2000 (Chakraborty 2003).
40. Euractiv (2008).
41. World Bank (2003b) provides a comprehensive treatment of
land management practices and policies in different parts of the
world, and how specific policies promote development and reduce
poverty.
42. Palacin and Shelburne 2005.
43. Bayes 2007.
44. World Bank 2008b.
45. World Bank 2008a.

WDR09_20_Endnotes.indd 302

46. World Bank 2008e.
47. Econometric analysis based on panel data (Lei and Haynes
2004).
48. Kloeppinger-Todd 2007. Overall, there are more than 20
million mobile phone subscribers in the Philippines.
49. Jensen 2007.
50. Luo 2004.
51. Yepes and Lall 2008.
52. Baldwin, Forslid, Martin, Ottaviano, and Robert-Nicoud
2003. The predictions of new economic geography models are as
follows: Infrastructure policies that facilitate interregional trade
between leading and lagging areas will increase spatial concentrations of economic activity in leading areas. These policies will also
increase growth in the whole economy while reducing nominal
income inequalities between areas and between workers and capital
owners. By contrast, infrastructure policies that improve connectivity within lagging areas may enhance local economic growth but
can slow the growth of the whole economy.
53. Faini 1983.
54. Combes and Lafourcade 2001.
55. Jacoby 2000.
56. World Bank 2008b.
57. Lall, Schroeder, and Schmidt 2008.
58. Government of Malaysia 2001.
59. Malaysia Industrial Development Authority (http://www
.mida.gov.my/).
60. Al-Hassan and Diao 2007.
61. Park forthcoming.
62. Lee (2008).
63. The following examples are based on background research
for this report.
64. Donoso-Clark and Leninhan (2008) call these centrally
administered policies to disperse economic activity “first-generation”
approaches to territorial development.
65. Donoso-Clark and Leninhan 2008.
66. Drabenstott 2005.
67. Hewings, Feser, and Poole 2008.
68. Carvalho, Lall, and Timmins 2006. Constitutional funds
were created in 1989 to finance economic activities in the north and
northeast regions.
69. World Bank 1977; Scott 1982.
70. Chakravorty and Lall 2005.
71. Fay, Felkner, and Lall 2008.
72. Based on research done by the Secretary of Economic Policy,
reported in Calmon (2003) and World Bank (2005a).
73. Details are provided in Calmon (2003).
74. Haussman, Rodrik, and Velasco 2005.
75. Donoso-Clark and Leninhan 2008 point out that a feature
of the failed “first-generation” territorial development programs
of the 1960s and 1970s was that they depended on external inputs
and expertise, rather than exploiting local assets and comparative
advantage.
76. A recent paper on firm location in developing countries
summarizes the findings from empirical work on the main factors
influencing location choices (see Deichmann, Lall, Redding, and
Venables forthcoming).
77. Uvalic 1993.
78. Bolton and Roland 1997.

10/9/08 11:44:44 PM

Endnotes

Chapter 9
1. Woronoff (1972), p. 141. The Entente was created in 1959
and designed to promote the economic development of members
by raising funds, guaranteeing loans, and encouraging trade and
investment. It operates through the Mutual Aid and Loan Guarantee Fund headquartered in Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire. The original
member states were Dahomey (now Benin), Côte d’Ivoire, Niger,
and Upper Volta (now Burkina Faso); Togo joined in 1966.
2. Collier 2007.
3. See Brülhart (2008) for a detailed analysis on intermediate
goods.
4. Coulibaly 2008.
5. See Yoshino (2008), using both the World Bank enterprise
survey database and the Doing Business database.
6. Melitz 2003.
7. See Schiff and Winters (2003) for a detailed development on
these points.
8. Viner 1950; Meade 1956; Balassa 1967; Aitken 1973; among
others.
9. Baier and Bergstrand 2004; Bond 2005; Evenett 2005; Bergstrand 2006.
10. Bhagwati 1995; Bhagwati, Greenaway, and Panagariya 1998;
Krishna 1998.
11. Krugman 1991; Frankel, Stein, and Wei 1996; Carrere 2005.
12. Martin, Mayer, and Thoenig (2008) estimate that countries
trading a lot with their neighbors are less likely to have an armed
conflict with them than countries trading mainly with distant partners.
13. World Bank 2004a; United Nations 2007.
14. Also in the 1970s, Sub-Saharan Africa was made up of vast
countries, mostly rural with a few isolated, densely populated areas
(mostly on the coast) and no interconnecting infrastructure—
hardly conducive to regional integration (CSAO/ECOWAS 2005).
15. The current WTO rules specify that regional trade agreements should cover substantially all sectors, which excludes sectorspecific trade deals for today’s developing countries. But the principle of starting with focused areas of cooperation is still valid.
16. Venables (2003) shows that regional integration between
low-income countries tends to lead to income divergence between
the least developed and the relatively more advanced member countries. Goyal and Staal (2004) show that small countries are more in
favor of integration, whereas large countries prefer integrating with
countries of equal size.
17. Coulibaly 2006.
18. World Bank 2004b.
19. Laeven and Woodruff 2007.
20. Box 3.3 of the report on food safety and agricultural health
standards (World Bank 2005c).
21. Gibbon and Ponte 2005; Chandra 2006; Broadman 2006;
Czubala, Shepherd, and Wilson 2007.
22. Fink and Mattoo 2004; Hoekman 2006.
23. Chow and others 2005; World Bank 2007g.
24. World Bank 2007f.
25. Arvis, Raballand, and Marteau 2007.
26. Djankov, Freund, and Pham 2006.
27. Behar and Manners 2008.
28. World Bank 2004b.

WDR09_20_Endnotes.indd 303

303

29. Both examples are from a World Bank Independent Evaluation Group report on regional programs.
30. Leigland and Roberts 2007.
31. World Bank 2006n.
32. N’Guessan and Chitou 2006.
33. African Development Bank 2007.
34. Bougheas, Demetriades, and Morgenroth 1999; Limão and
Venables 2001.
35. For instance, Foroutan and Pritchett (1993) make this argument for Sub-Saharan Africa.
36. Coulibaly and Fontagné 2006.
37. Buys, Deichmann, and Wheeler 2006.
38. Shepherd and Wilson 2006.
39. Vargas-Hidalgo 1979; Wionczek 1970.
40. Hazelwood 1979; Kasekende and Ng’eno 1999.
41. Brandts and Cooper (2007) show that effective communication is a more powerful coordination mechanism than purely
financial incentives.
42. Sandler 2002.
43. Arce 2001; 2004; Arce and Sandler 2002.
44. Schiff and Winters 2002.
45. In Kraske and others (1996), p. 95.
46. See the International Development Association and World
Bank (2008) for a thorough discussion of these issues.
47. Schiff and Winters 2002.
48. Mayer 2008.
49. Note that Northeast Asia is an exceptional case, because of
its proximity to Japan. Its main markets are still North America and
the European Union. For purposes of market access, given its trade
links with China, Southeast Asia should be considered as part of the
same neighborhood as China.
50. Hill and Gaddy 2003.
51. International Monetary Fund (1998) for the EU enlargement; Schiff and Wang (2003) for NAFTA.
52. World Bank 2002b.
53. Jessen 2002.
54. World Bank (2003a) report on trade and investment.
55. Assessment made using the methodology proposed by
Coulibaly (2007). The trade impact of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) is not faring better from this assessment, even if its members took the important step to launch a common market on January 1, 2008.
56. World Bank 2007g.
57. Antweiler and Trefler 2002.
58. See for instance Moreno and Trehan (1997).
59. Arora and Vamvakidis (2005) show the impact of South
Africa on its neighbors, while Behar and Collier emphasize on
the impact of resource-rich countries on their neighbors in SubSaharan Africa.
60. Nabi and Nasim 2001.
61. Naqvi and Schuler 2007.
62. World Bank 2007h.
63. Söderbaum 2001.
64. Behar and Collier 2008.
65. United Nations (2004a) and United Nations and African
Union (2006) report on regional integration.
66. N’Dulu 2001.

10/9/08 11:44:45 PM

304

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

67. Gregoire and Labazee 1993.
68. Ladman 1979; Asiwaju 2005.
69. Dorosh, Haggblade, and Dradri 2007; Jayne and others 2005;
Tschirley and others 2004; Negri and Porto 2007.
70. Little 2007.
71. Gregoire and Labazee 1993; Yade and others 1999.
72. Adebusoye 2006.
73. Jourdan and NEPAD 2006.
74. Hoekman and Njinkeu 2007.
75. Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) 2007.
76. Collier and Venables 2007.

WDR09_20_Endnotes.indd 304

GIM 4
1. Alesina, Easterly, and Matuszeski 2006.
2. de Blij 2005.
3. Naudé 2007.
4. Ndulu and others (2007), p. 101.
5. Satterthwaite 2007.
6. Naudé and Matthee 2007.
7. Ramos 2007.
8. Martínez-Zarzoso, García-Menéndez, and Suárez-Burguet
2003.

10/9/08 11:44:45 PM

References

The word “processed” describes informally reproduced works that may not be commonly available through libraries.
Abreu, María. 2008. “Effectively Dealing with Slums.” Background
note for the WDR 2009.
Acemoglu, Daron, Simon Johnson, and James A. Robinson. 2001.
“The Colonial Origins of Comparative Development: An
Empirical Investigation.” American Economic Review 91 (5):
1369–401.
———. 2002. “Reversal of Fortune: Geography and Institutions in
the Making of the Modern World Income Distribution.” Quarterly Journal of Economics 117 (4): 1231–94.
Acosta, Pablo, Pablo Fajnzylber, and J. Humberto Lopez. 2007.
“The Impact of Remittances on Poverty and Human Capital:
Evidence from Latin America Household Surveys.” In International Migration, Economic Development, and Policy, ed. Caglar
Özden and Maurice Schiff. Washington, DC, and New York:
World Bank and Palgrave Macmillan.
Adams, David, and E. M. Hastings. 2001. “Urban Renewal in Hong
Kong: Transition From Development Corporation to Renewal
Authority.” Land Use Policy 18(3):245–58.
Adams, Richard H. Jr. 2006. “Remittances, Poverty, and Investment
in Guatemala.” In International Migration, Remittances, and the
Brain Drain, ed. Caglar Özden and Maurice Schiff. Washington,
DC, and New York: World Bank and Palgrave Macmillan.
Adebusoye, Paulina Makinwa. 2006. “Geographic Labour Mobility in Sub-Saharan Africa.” Globalization, Growth, and Poverty
Working Paper Series 1, IDRC, Ottawa.
Adelman, Irma, and Sherman Robinson. 1978. “Migration, Demographic Change, and Income Distribution in a Model of a
Developing Country.” In Research in Population Economics, vol.
I, ed. Julian Simon. Greenwich, CT: JAI Press.
Adhiati, M. Adriana Sri, and Armin Bobsien. 2001. Indonesia’s
Transmigration Programme—An Update: A Report Prepared for
Down to Earth. London: International Campaign for Ecological
Justice in Indonesia.
Africa Development Bank (ADB). 2007. Report of the High Level
Panel: Investing in Africa’s Future. Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire: ADB.
Aghion, Philippe, Robin Burgess, Stephen J. Redding, and Fabrizio
Zilibotti. 2006. “The Unequal Effects of Liberalization: Evidence
from Dismantling the License Raj in India.” NBER Working
Paper 12031, National Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, MA.
Aghion, Philippe, and Peter Howitt. 1992. “A Model of Growth
Through Creative Destruction.” Econometrica 60(2):323–51.
———. 2005. “Growth With Quality-Improving Innovations: An
Integrated Framework.” In Handbook of Economic Growth, Volume 1A, ed. Philippe Aghion and Steven Durlauf. Amsterdam,
Netherlands: North-Holland.

Aghion, Philippe, and Jeffrey G. Williamson. 1998. Growth,
Inequality and Globalization: Theory, History, and Policy. New
York: Cambridge University Press.
Aitken, Norman D. 1973. “The Effects of the EEC and the EFTA on
European Trade: A Temporal Cross-Section Analysis.” American
Economic Review 63 (5): 881–92.
Al-Hassan, Ramatu M., and Xinshen Diao. 2007. “Regional Disparities in Ghana: Policy Options and Public Investment Implications.” IFPRI Working Paper 693, Internationhal Food Policy
Research Institute, Washington, DC.
Alcalá, Francisco, and Antonio Ciccone. 2004. “Trade and Productivity.” Quarterly Journal of Economics 119 (2): 613–46.
Alderman, Harold, Miriam Babita, Gabriel Demombynes, Nthabiseng Makhatha, and Berk Özler. 2002. “How Low Can You Go?
Combining Census and Survey Data for Mapping Poverty in
South Africa.” Journal of African Economies 11 (2): 169–200.
Alesina, Alberto, Arnaud Devleeschauwer, William Easterly, Sergio
Kurlat, and Romain Wacziarg. 2003. “Fractionalization.” Journal
of Economic Growth 8 (2): 155–94.
Alesina, Alberto, William Easterly, and Janina Matuszeski. 2006.
“Artificial States.” Working Paper 2115, Harvard Institute of
Economic Research, Cambridge, MA.
Alesina, Alberto, and Enrico Spolaore. 2003. The Size of Nations.
Cambridge, MA, and London: MIT Press.
Allen, Robert, Jean-Pascal Bassino, Debin Ma, Christine MollMurata, and Jan Luiten Van Zanden. 2007. “Wages, Prices, and
Living Standards in China, 1738–1925: In Comparison with
Europe, Japan, and India.” Economics Working Paper 316, University of Oxford, Oxford, U.K.
Alston, Lee, and T. J. Hatton. 1991. “The Earnings Gap between
Agricultural and Manufacturing Laborers, 1925–1941.” Journal
of Economic History 51 (1): 83–99.
Amiti, Mary, and Shang-Jin Wei. 2005. “Fear of Service Outsourcing: Is It Justified?” Economic Policy 20 (42): 308–47.
Anderson, James E., and Eric van Wincoop. 2003. “Gravity with
Gravitas: A Solution to the Border Puzzle.” American Economic
Review 93 (1): 170–92.
———. 2004. “Trade Costs.” Journal of Economic Literature 42 (3):
691–751.
Anderson, Kathryn H., and Richard Pomfret. 2005. “Spatial
Inequality and Development in Central Asia.” In Spatial Disparities in Human Development: Perspectives from Asia, ed. Ravi
Kanbur, Anthony J. Venables, and Guanghua Wan. Tokyo and
New York: United Nations University Press.
Andrews, Martyn, Kenneth Clark, and William Whittaker. 2007.
“The Employment and Earnings of Migrants in Great Britain.”
305

WDR09_21_References.indd 305

10/16/08 9:47:50 AM

306

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Working Paper 3068, Institute for the Study of Labor, Bonn,
Germany.
Andrienko, Yuri, and Sergei M. Guriev. 2003. “Determinants of
Interregional Mobility in Russia: Evidence from Panel Data.”
Working Paper 3835, Centre for Economic Policy Research,
London.
Angel, Shlomo. 2008. “Preparing for Urban Expansion: A Proposed
Strategy for Intermediate Cities in Ecuador.” In The New Global
Frontier: Cities, Poverty and Environment in the 21st Century, ed.
G. Martine, G. McGranahan, M. Montgomery, and R. CastillaFernandez. London: IIED/UNFPA and Earthscan.
Angeriz, Alvaro, John McCombie, and Mark Roberts. 2008. “New
Estimates of Returns to Scale and Spatial Spillovers for EU
Regional Manufacturing, 1986–2002.” International Regional
Science Review 31 (1): 62–87.
Anh, Dang Nguyen. 2003. “Migration and Poverty in Asia, with
Reference to Bangladesh, China, the Philippines, and Viet
Nam.” Paper presented at the Ad Hoc Expert Group Meeting on
Migration and Development, Bangkok, Thailand, August 27.
Anh, Dang Nguyen, Cecilia Tacoli, and Hoang Xuan Thanh. 2003.
“Migration in Vietnam: A Review of Information on Current
Trends and Patterns, and Their Policy Implications.” Paper presented at the Regional Conference on Migration, Development
and Pro-poor Policy Choices in Asia, Dhaka, Bangladesh.
Antràs, Pol, Luis Garicano, and Esteban Rossi-Hansberg. 2006.
“Offshoring in a Knowledge Economy.” Quarterly Journal of
Economics 121 (1): 31–77.
Antweiler, Werner, and Daniel Trefler. 2002. “Increasing Returns
and All That: A View from Trade.” American Economic Review 92
(1): 93–119.
Arce, Daniel M. 2001. “Leadership and the Aggregation of International Collective Action.” Oxford Economic Papers 53 (1): 114–37.
———. 2004. “Asymmetric Leadership and International Public
Goods.” Public Finance Review 32 (5): 528–58.
Armstrong, Harvey, and Jim Taylor. 2000. Regional Economics and
Policy. Oxford, U.K.: Blackwell.
Arnold, John. 2006. “Best Practices in Management of International Trade Corridors.” Transport Working Paper TM-13,
World Bank, Washington, DC.
Arora, Vivek, and Athanasios Vamvakidis. 2005. “The Implications of South African Economic Growth for the Rest of Africa.”
South African Journal of Economics 73 (2): 229–42.
Arrow, Kenneth J. 1962. “Economic Welfare and the Allocation of
Resources for Invention.” In The Rate and Direction of Inventive Activity: Economic and Social Factors, ed. Conference of the
Universities and the National Bureau Committee for Economic
Research. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
Arvis, Jean-François, Gael Raballand, and Jean-François Marteau.
2007. “The Cost of Being Landlocked: Logistics Cost and Supply
Chain Reliability.” Policy Research Working Paper 4258, World
Bank, Washington, DC.
Asiwaju, Anthony I. 2005. “Transfrontier Regionalism: The European Union Perspective on Postcolonial Africa, with Special Reference to Borgu.” In Holding the Line. Borders in a Global World,
ed. Heather N. Nicol and Ian Townsend-Gault. Vancouver, Canada: University of British Columbia Press.

WDR09_21_References.indd 306

Atkinson, Michael M., and Richard A. Powers. 1987. “Inside the
Industrial Policy Garbage Can: Selective Subsidies to Business in
Canada.” Canadian Public Policy 13 (2): 208–17.
Au, Chun-Chung, and J. Vernon Henderson. 2006a. “Are Chinese
Cities Too Small?” Review of Economic Studies 73 (3): 549–76.
———. 2006b. “How Migration Restrictions Limit Agglomeration
and Productivity in China.” Journal of Development Economics
80 (2): 350–88.
Audretsch, David B., and Maryann P. Feldman. 1996. “R&D Spillovers and the Geography of Innovation and Production.” American Economic Review 86 (3): 630–40.
Azzoni, Carlos, Naercio Menezes-Filho, Tatiane A. De Menezes,
and Raul Silveira-Neto. 2000. “Geography and Income Convergence among Brazilian States.” Research Network Working
Paper R-395, Inter-American Development Bank, Washington,
DC.
Bae, Chang-Hee Christine, and Yaourai Suthiranart. 2003. “Policy
Options towards a Sustainable Urban Transportation Strategy
for Bangkok.” International Development Planning Review 25
(1): 31–51.
Baer, Werner. 1995. The Brazilian Economy: Growth and Development, 4th ed. Westport, CT: Praeger Publishers.
Baier, Scott L., and Jeffrey H. Bergstrand. 2004. “Economic Determinants of Free Trade Agreements.” Journal of International Economics 64 (1): 29–63.
Bairoch, Paul. 1982. “International Industrialization Levels from
1750 to 1980.” Journal of European Economic History 11 (2):
269–333.
———. 1988. Cities and Economic Development: From the Dawn of
History to the Present. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Bairoch, Paul, and Gary Goertz. 1986. “Factors of Urbanization in
the Nineteenth-Century Developed Countries: A Descriptive
and Econometric Analysis.” Urban Studies 23 (4): 285–305.
Baker, Jim. 1999. Crossroads: A Popular History of Malaysia and
Singapore. Singapore: Times Books International.
Baker, Judy, Rakhi Basu, Maureen Cropper, Somik V. Lall, and
Akie Takeuchi. 2005. “Urban Poverty and Transport: The Case
of Mumbai.” Policy Research Working Paper 3693, World Bank,
Washington, DC.
Baker, Kevin. 2001. “The First Slum in America.” New York Times,
September 30.
Balassa, Bela. 1967. “Trade Creation and Trade Diversion in European Common Market.” Economic Journal 77 (305): 1–21.
Baldwin, John R., and Paul K. Gorecki. 1986. Role of Scale in
Canada–U.S. Productivity Differences in the Manufacturing Sector 1970–1979. Buffalo, NY, and Toronto, Canada: University of
Toronto Press.
Baldwin, Richard E. 1995. “A Domino Theory of Regionalism.” In
Expanding Membership of the European Union, ed. Richard E.
Baldwin, Pertti Haaparanta, and Jaakko Kiander. Cambridge,
MA, and New York: Cambridge University Press.
———. 2008. “Sequencing and Depth of Regional Economic Integration: Lessons for the Americas from Europe.” World Economy
31 (1): 5–30.
Baldwin, Richard E., Rikard Forslid, Philippe Martin, Gianmarco
I. P. Ottaviano, and Frederic Robert-Nicoud. 2003. Economic

10/10/08 10:08:01 AM

References

Geography and Public Policy. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University
Press.
Baldwin, Richard E., and Philippe Martin. 1999. “Two Waves of
Globalization: Superficial Similarities, Fundamental Differences.” In Globalization and Labor, ed. Horst Siebert. Tuebingen,
Germany: Mohr Siebeck.
Baldwin, Richard E., Philippe Martin, and Gianmarco I. P. Ottaviano. 2001. “Global Income Divergence, Trade, and Industrialization: The Geography of Growth Take-Offs.” Journal of Economic
Growth 6 (1): 5–37.
Baldwin, Richard E., and Charles Wyplosz. 2006. The Economics of
European Integration, 2nd ed. London: McGraw-Hill Education.
Balisacan, Arsenio, Hal Hill, and Sharon Faye Piza. Forthcoming.
“Spatial Disparities and Development Policy in the Philippines.”
In Reshaping Economic Geography in East Asia, ed. Yukon Huang
and Alessandro Magnoli Bocchi. Washington, DC: World Bank,
EAP Companion Volume to the WDR 2009.
Balk, Deborah L., Uwe Deichmann, Gregory Yetman, Francesca
Pozzi, Simon I. Hay, and Andrew Nelson. 2006. “Determining
Global Population Distribution: Methods, Applications, and
Data.” Advances in Parasitology 62: 119–56.
Banerjee, Abhijit, and Lakshmi Iyer. 2005. “History, Institutions,
and Economic Performance: The Legacy of Colonial Land
Tenure Systems in India.” American Economic Review 95 (4):
1190–213.
Barro, Robert J., and Xavier Sala-I-Martin. 1992. “Convergence.”
Journal of Political Economy 100 (2): 223–51.
———. 2004. Economic Growth, 2nd ed. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
Barro, Robert J., Xavier Sala-I-Martin, Olivier J. Blanchard, and
Robert E. Hall. 1991. “Convergence across States and Cities.”
Brookings Papers on Economic Activity 1991 (1): 107–82.
Bartelsman, Eric J., Ricardo J. Caballero, and Richard K. Lyons.
1994. “Customer and Supplier-Driven Externalities.” American
Economic Review 84 (4): 1075–84.
Basu, Susanto, and John G. Fernald. 1997. “Returns to Scale in U.S.
Production: Estimates and Implications.” Journal of Political
Economy 105 (2): 249–83.
Baumert, Kevin A., Timothy Herzog, and Jonathan Pershing. 2005.
Navigating the Numbers: Greenhouse Gas Data and International
Climate Policy. Washington, DC: World Resources Institute.
Baumol, William J. 1986. “Productivity Growth, Convergence, and
Welfare: What the Long-Run Data Show.” American Economic
Review 76 (5): 1072–85.
Bayes, Abdul. 2007. Impact Assessment of Jamuna Multipurpose
Bridge Project (JMBP) on Poverty. Dhaka: Japan Bank for International Cooperation.
Bazoglu, Nefise. 2008. Cities in Transition: Demographics and the
Development of Cities. Philadelphia: Pennsylvania State University.
Beaumier, Guy. 1998. Regional Development in Canada. Ottawa:
Government of Canada.
Beegle, Kathleen, Joachim De Weerdt, and Stefan Dercon. 2008.
“Migration and Economic Mobility in Tanzania: Evidence from
a Tracking Survey.” World Bank, Washington, DC. Processed.
Behar, Alberto, and Paul Collier. 2008. “Does Proximity Matters
More Than Wealth?” CSAE, Oxford, U.K.

WDR09_21_References.indd 307

307

Behar, Alberto, and Phil Manners. 2008. “Logistics and Exports.”
Department of Economics and CSAE Working Paper 2008-13,
University of Oxford, Oxford, U.K.
Bekaert, Geert, Campbell R. Harvey, and Christian Lundblad.
2005. “Does Financial Liberalization Spur Growth?” Journal of
Financial Economics 77 (1): 3–55.
Bell, Martin. 2003. “Comparing Internal Migration between
Countries: Measures, Data Sources, and Results.” Working
Paper 2003/02, University of Queensland Centre for Population
Research, Brisbane, Australia.
Bento, Antonio M., Maureen L. Cropper, Ahmed Mushfiq Mobarak, and Katja Vinha. 2003. “The Impact of Urban Spatial Structure on Travel Demand in the United States.” Policy Research
Working Paper 3007, World Bank, Washington, DC.
Bergstrand, Jeffrey H. 2006. “Regional Integration as a Development Strategy.” Paper presented at The New Regionalism: Progress, Setbacks, and Challenges, Washington, DC.
Bernstein, Jeffrey I., and M. Ishaq Nadiri. 1988. “Inter-industry
R&D Spillovers, Rates of Return, and Production in High-Tech
Industries.” American Economic Review 78 (2): 429–34.
Bertaud, Alain. 2003. “Order without Design.” World Bank, Washington, DC. Processed.
———. 2004. “The Spatial Organization of Cities: Deliberate Outcome or Unforeseen Consequence?” Working Paper
WP-2004-01, Institute of Urban and Regional Development,
Berkeley, CA.
Bertram, Geoffrey. 2004. “On the Convergence of Small Island
Economies with their Metropolitan Patrons.” World Development 32 (2): 343–64.
Bhagwati, Jagdish. 1995. “U.S. Trade Policy: The Infatuation with
Free Trade Areas.” In The Dangerous Drift to Preferential Trade
Agreements, ed. Jagdish Bhagwati and Anne O. Krueger. Washington, DC: American Enterprise Institute.
Bhagwati, Jagdish, David Greenaway, and Arvind Panagariya. 1998.
“Trading Preferentially: Theory and Policy.” Economic Journal
108 (449): 1128–48.
Bhagwati, Jagdish, and T. N. Srinivasan. 2002. “Trade and Poverty in the Poor Countries.” American Economic Review 92 (2):
180–3.
Biedermann, Rob. 2007. “Sinvin Realty Handles Meatpacking District Deal in NYC.” crefeed.com, October 29.
Bikhchandani, Sushil, David Hirshleifer, and Ivo Welch. 1998.
“Learning from the Behavior of Others: Conformity, Fads, and
Informational Cascades.” Journal of Economic Perspectives 12 (3):
151–70.
Bird, Kate, and Kate Higgins. 2008. “Regional Inequality and Primary Education in Northern Uganda, Policy Brief 2.” Background paper for the WDR 2009.
Black, Duncan, and J. Vernon Henderson. 1999. “A Theory of
Urban Growth.” Journal of Political Economy 107 (2): 252–84.
———. 2003. “Urban Evolution in the USA.” Journal of Economic
Geography 3 (4): 343–72.
Blake, Gerald. 2005. “Boundary Permeability in Perspective.” In
Holding the Line: Borders in a Global World, ed. Heather N. Nicol
and Ian Townsend-Gault. Vancouver, Canada: University of
British Columbia Press.

10/10/08 10:08:02 AM

308

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Blanchard, Olivier J., Lawrence F. Katz, Robert E. Hall, and Barry
Eichengreen. 1992. “Regional Evolutions.” Brookings Papers on
Economic Activity 1992 (1): 1–75.
Boltho, Andrea, Wendy Carlin, and Pasquale Scaramozzino. 1997.
“Will East Germany Become a New Mezzogiorno?” Journal of
Comparative Economics 24 (3): 241–64.
Bolton, Patrick, and Gerard Roland. 1997. “The Breakup of
Nations: A Political Economy Analysis.” Quarterly Journal of
Economics 112 (4): 1057–90.
Bond, Eric W. 2005. “The Sequencing of Trade Liberalization
in the Presence of Adjustment Costs.” Paper presented at the
Sequencing of Regional Economic Integration: Issues in the
Breadth and Depth of Economic Integration in the Americas,
Notre Dame, IN.
Booth, Charles. 1901. Improved Means of Locomotion as a First Step
Towards the Cure of the Housing Difficulties of London. London:
Macmillan.
Bordo, Michael D., Barry Eichengreen, and Douglas A. Irwin. 1999.
“Is Globalization Today Really Different Than Globalization
a Hundred Years Ago?” NBER Working Paper 7195, National
Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, MA.
Boreak, Sik. 2000. “Land Ownership, Sales, and Concentration
in Cambodia. A Preliminary Review of Secondary Data and
Primary Data from Four Recent Surveys.” Working Paper 16,
Development Resource Institute, Phnom Penh.
Borgegård, Lars-Erik, and Jim Kemeny. 2004. “Sweden: High-Rise
Housing for a Low-Density Country.” In High-Rise Housing in
Europe: Current Trends and Future Prospects, ed. R. Turkington,
R. van Kempen, and E. Wassenberg. Delft, Netherlands: Delft
University Press.
Borjas, George J. 1990. Friends or Strangers: The Impact of Immigration on the U.S. Economy. New York: Basic Books.
Borjas, George J., Stephen G. Bronars, and Stephen J. Trejo. 1992.
“Self Selection and Internal Migration in the United States.”
Journal of Urban Economics 32 (2): 159–85.
Borsch-Supan, Axel. 1987. “The Role of Education: Mobility
Increasing or Mobility Impeding?” NBER Working Paper 2329,
National Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, MA.
Bossone, Biagio, and Jong-Kun Lee. 2004. “In Finance, Size Matters: The ‘Systemic Scale Economies’ Hypothesis.” IMF Staff
Papers 51 (1): 19–46.
Bougheas, Spiros, Panicos O. Demetriades, and Edgar L. W. Morgenroth. 1999. “Infrastructure, Transport Costs, and Trade.”
Journal of International Economics 47 (1): 169–89.
Bourguignon, François, and Christian Morrisson. 1998. “Inequality and Development: The Role of Dualism.” Journal of Development Economics 57 (2): 233–57.
———. 2002. “Inequality among World Citizens: 1820–1992.”
American Economic Review 92 (4): 727–44.
Brahmbhatt, Milan. 2004. Strong Fundamentals to the Fore:
Regional Overview. Washington, DC: World Bank, East and
Pacific Region.
Brakman, Steven, Harry Garretsen, and Charles van Marrewijk.
2001. An Introduction to Geographical Economics: Trade, Location, and Growth. New York: Cambridge University Press.

WDR09_21_References.indd 308

Brandts, Jordi, and David J. Cooper. 2007. “It’s What You Say, Not
What You Pay: An Experimental Study of Manager-Employee
Relationships in Overcoming Coordination Failure.” Journal of
the European Economic Association 5 (6): 1223–68.
Brezis, Elise S., and Paul R. Krugman. 1997. “Technology and the
Life Cycle of Cities.” Journal of Economic Growth 2 (4): 369–83.
Bristow, R. 1984. Land-Use Planning in Hong Kong: History, Policies, and Procedures. Hong Kong: Oxford University Press.
Broadman, Harry G. 2005. From Disintegration to Reintegration:
Eastern Europe and the Former Soviet Union in International
Trade. Washington, DC: World Bank.
———. 2006. Africa’s Silk Road: China and India’s New Economic
Frontier. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Brockerhoff, M., and P. Hewett. 2000. “Inequality of Child Mortality among Ethnic Groups in Sub-Saharan Africa.” Bulletin of the
World Health Organization 78 (1): 30–41.
Brown, Annette N. 1997. “The Economic Determinants of the
Internal Migration Flows in Russia During Transition.” Working
Paper 89, William Davidson Institute, Ann Arbor, MI.
Brown, David, Marianne Fay, John Felkner, Somik V. Lall, and
Hyoung Gun Wang. 2008. “The Death of Distance? Economic
Implications of Infrastructure Improvement in Russia.” World
Bank, Office of the Chief Economist, Europe and Central Asia
Region, Washington, DC.
Brueckner, Jan K. 2007. “Government Land-Use Interventions:
An Economic Analysis.” Paper presented at the World Bank 4th
Urban Research Symposium, Washington, DC.
Brülhart, Marius. 2008. “An Account of Global Intra-Industry
Trade, 1962–2006.” Working Paper 2008-08, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, U.K.
Brunetti, Aymo, and Beatrice Weder. 2003. “A Free Press Is Bad
News for Corruption.” Journal of Public Economics 87 (7–8):
1801–24.
Brushett, Stephen. 2005. “Management and Financing of Road
Transport Infrastructure in Africa.” Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy Working Paper 4, World Bank, Washington, DC.
Bryceson, Deborah Fahy. 1999. “Sub-Saharan Africa Betwixt and
Between: Rural Livelihood Practices and Policies.” Working
Paper 43, African Studies Centre, Leiden, Netherlands.
Buckley, Robert, Alain Bertaud, and V. K. Phatak. 2005. “Property
Rights and Interlocking Policy Constraints Urban Land Markets: Reforming Mumbai’s Real Estate Raj.” Paper presented at
the Land Policies and Administration for Accelerated Growth
and Poverty Reduction, New Delhi.
Buckley, Robert, and Jerry Kalarickal, eds. 2006. Thirty Years of
World Bank Shelter Lending: What Have We Learned? Washington, DC: World Bank.
Burchfield, Marcy, Henry G. Overman, Diego Puga, and Matthew
Turner. 2006. “Causes of Sprawl: A Portrait from Space.” Quarterly Journal of Economics 121 (2): 587–633.
Burkey, Mark L. 2006. “Gini Coefficients for the 2000 Census.”
North Carolina A&T State University, Department of Economics and Transportation-Logistics, Greensboro, NC.
Button, Kenneth. 1999. “Shipping Alliances: Are They at the Core
of Solving Instability Problems in Shipping?” Paper presented at

10/10/08 10:08:02 AM

References

the 1999 Meeting of the International Association of Maritime
Economists, Halifax, Canada.
Buys, Piet, Susmita Dasgupta, Timothy S. Thomas, and David
Wheeler. 2008. “Determinants of a Digital Divide in SubSaharan Africa: A Spatial Econometric Analysis of Cell Phone
Coverage.” Policy Research Working Paper 4516, World Bank,
Washington, DC.
Buys, Piet, Uwe Deichmann, and David Wheeler. 2006. “Road Network Upgrading and Overland Trade Expansion in Sub-Saharan
Africa.” Policy Research Working Paper 4097, World Bank,
Washington, DC.
Cabinet Council. 1972. New Integrated Spatial Development Plan
(Japanese). Tokyo: Cabinet Council.
Calem, Paul S. 1994. “The Impact of Geographic Deregulation on
Small Banks.” Business Review (November/December): 17–31.
Calem, Paul S., and Gerald A. Carlino. 1991. “Urban Agglomeration Economies in the Presence of Technical Change.” Journal of
Urban Economics 29 (1): 82–95.
Cali, Massimiliano. 2008. “Urbanization, Inequality, and Economic
Growth: Evidence from Indian States.” Background paper for
the WDR 2009.
Calmon, Paulo Carlos Du Pin. 2003. “Evaluation of Subsidies in
Brazil: An Overview.” World Bank, Washington, DC.
Canning, David, and Esra Bennathan. 2007. “The Rate of Return
to Transportation Infrastructure.” In Transport, Infrastructure
Investment and Economic Productivity, ed. OECD/ECMT. Paris:
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.
Cárdenas, Mauricio, and Adriana Pontón. 1995. “Growth and Convergence in Colombia: 1950–1990.” Journal of Development Economics 47 (1): 5–37.
Carlino, Gerald A. 1979. “Increasing Returns to Scale in Metropolitan Manufacturing.” Journal of Regional Science 19 (3): 369–72.
Carlino, Gerald A., and Satyajit Chatterjee. 2001. “Employment
Deconcentration: A New Perspective on America’s Postwar
Urban Evolution.” Working Paper 01-4, Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia, Philadelphia.
Carlton, Dennis W. 1983. “The Location and Employment Choices
of New Firms: An Econometric Model with Discrete and Continuous Endogenous Variables.” Review of Economics and Statistics 65 (3): 440–49.
Carrère, Céline. 2007. “Regional Agreement and the Welfare in the
South: When Scale Economies in Transport Matters.” Working
Paper 2007-26, CERDI, Clermont-Ferrand, France.
Carvalho, Alexandre S., Somik V. Lall, and Christopher Timmins.
2006. “Regional Subsidies and Industrial Prospects of Lagging
Regions.” Policy Research Working Paper 3843, World Bank,
Washington, DC.
Caselli, Francesco. 2005. “Accounting for Cross-Country Income
Differences.” In Handbook of Economic Growth, vol. I, ed. Philippe
Aghion and Steven N. Durlauf. Amsterdam: North-Holland.
Caselli, Francesco, and James Feyrer. 2007. “The Marginal Product
of Capital.” Quarterly Journal of Economics 122 (2): 535–68.
Cashin, Paul A. 1995. “Economic Growth and Convergence across
the Seven Colonies of Australasia: 1861–1991.” Economic Record
71 (2): 132–44.

WDR09_21_References.indd 309

309

Catin, Maurice, and Christophe Van Huffel. 2003. “Inégalités
Régionales et Développement Economique: le Cas Français
(1850–2000).” La Revue d’Economie Régionale e Urbaine Part 5:
1–18.
Chakraborty, Pinaki. 2003. “Unequal Fiscal Capacities across
Indian States: How Corrective Is the Fiscal Transfer Mechanism?” Paper presented at the WIDER project conference on
Spatial Inequality in Asia at United Nations University Headquarters, Tokyo.
Chakravorty, Sanjoy, and Somik V. Lall. 2005. “Industrial Location and Spatial Inequality: Theory and Evidence from India.”
Review of Development Economics 9 (1): 47–68.
———. 2007. Made in India: The Economic Geography and Political Economy of Industrialization. New Delhi and New York:
Oxford University Press.
Chandler, Alfred Dupont Jr. 1977. The Visible Hand: The Managerial Revolution in American Business. Cambridge, MA: Belknap
Press.
Chandler, Mittie Olion. 1992. “Public Housing Desegregation:
What Are the Options?” Housing Policy Debate 3 (2): 509–34.
Chandler, Tertius. 1987. Four Thousand Years of Urban Growth: An
Historical Census. Lampeter, U.K.: Edwin Mellen Press.
Chandler, Tertius, and Gerald Fox. 1974. Three Thousand Years of
Urban Growth. New York and London: Academic Press.
Chandra, Vandana, ed. 2006. Technology Adaptation and Exports:
How Some Developing Countries Got It Right. Washington, DC:
World Bank.
Chang, Ha-Joon. 2005. “Policy Space in Historical Perspective—
with Special Reference to Trade and Industrial Policies.” Paper
presented at the Queen Elizabeth House 50th Anniversary Conference: The Development of Threats and Promises, Oxford,
U.K.
Charlot, Sylvie, and Gilles Duranton. 2004. “Communication
Externalities in Cities.” Journal of Urban Economics 56 (3):
581–613.
Chase-Dunn, Christopher, Yukio Kawano, and Benjamin D.
Brewer. 2000. “Trade Globalization since 1795: Waves of Integration in the World System.” American Sociological Review 65
(1): 77–95.
Chen, Yang. 2008. “China: A Case Study of 1D-2D-3D Areas.”
Background note for the WDR 2009.
———. 2008. “Urban Agglomeration Policy in China.” Background note for the WDR 2009.
Chinitz, Benjamin J. 1961. “Contrasts in Agglomeration: New York
and Pittsburgh.” American Economic Review 51 (2): 279–89.
Chinn, Menzie D., and Hiro Ito. 2006. “What Matters for Financial
Development? Capital Controls, Institutions, and Interactions.”
Journal of Development Economics 81 (1): 163–92.
Chiquier, Loic, Olivier Hassler, and Michael Lea. 2004. “Mortgage
Securities in Emerging Markets.” Policy Research Working Paper
3370, World Bank, Washington, DC.
Chomitz, Kenneth M., Piet Buys, and Timothy S. Thomas. 2005.
“Quantifying the Rural-Urban Gradient in Latin America and
the Caribbean.” Policy Research Working Paper 3634, World
Bank, Washington, DC.

10/10/08 10:08:02 AM

310

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Chow, Hwee K., Peter N. Kriz, Roberto S. Mariano, and Augustine
H. H. Tan. 2005. Trade, Investment, and Financial Integration
in East Asia. Tanglin, Singapore: Association of Southeasrtern
Asian Nations + 3 Secretariat.
Christaller, Walter. 1933. Central Places in Southern Germany.
Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall.
Christensen, Dan Charly. 2004. “Physiocracy: The Missing Link.”
In Modernisation and Tradition European Local and Manorial
Societies 1500–1900, ed. K. Sundberg, T. Germundsson, and K.
Hansen. Lancaster, U.K.: Nordic Academic Press.
Ciccone, Antonio. 2002. “Agglomeration Effects in Europe.” European Economic Review 46(2):213–27.
Ciccone, Antonio, and Robert E. Hall. 1996. “Productivity and
the Density of Economic Activity.” American Economic Review
86(1):54–70.
Ciccone, Antonio, and Giovanni Peri. 2006. “Identifying HumanCapital Externalities: Theory with Applications.” Review of Economic Studies 73 (2): 381–412.
Clark, Colin. 1957. The Conditions of Economic Progress, 3rd ed.
London: Macmillan.
Clemens, Michael A., Claudio E. Montenegro, and Lant Pritchett. 2008. “The Place Premium: Wage Differences for Identical
Workers across the U.S. Border.” Policy Research Working Paper
4671, World Bank, Washington, DC. Background paper for the
WDR 2009.
Cockrem, Tom. 2007. “Singapore’s Slum Deal.” The Sun-Herald,
April 8.
Coe, Patrick J., and J. C. Herbert Emery. 2004. “The Disintegrating
Canadian Labour Market? The Extent of the Market Then and
Now.” Canadian Journal of Economics 37 (4): 879–97.
Cohen, Daniel, and Marcelo Soto. 2007. “Growth and Human
Capital: Good Data, Good Results.” Journal of Economic Growth
12 (1): 51–76.
Cole, William E., and Richard D. Sanders. 1985. “Internal Migration and Urban Employment in the Third World.” American
Economic Review 75 (3): 481–94.
Collier, Paul. 2003. Breaking the Conflict Trap: Civil War and Development Policy. Washington, DC, and New York: World Bank and
Oxford University Press.
———. 2007. The Bottom Billion: Why the Poorest Countries Are
Failing and What Can Be Done about It. New York and Oxford,
U.K.: Oxford University Press.
Collier, Paul, and Stephen A. O’Connel. 2008. “Opportunities and
Choices.” In The Political Economy of Economic Growth in Africa,
1960–2000, vol. 1, ed. Benno J. Ndulu, Stephen A. O’Connel,
Robert H. Bates, Paul Collier, and Charles C. Soludo. Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge University Press.
Collier, Paul, and Anthony J. Venables. 2007. “Rethinking Trade
Preferences: How Africa Can Diversify Its Exports.” World Economy 30 (8): 1326–45.
Combes, Pierre-Philippe. 2000. “Marshall-Arrow-Romer Externalities and City Growth.” Working Paper 99-06, Centre d’Étude
et de Recherche en Action Sociale, Paris.
Combes, Pierre-Philippe, and Miren Lafourcade. 2001. “Transport
Cost Decline and Regional Inequalities: Evidence from France.”

WDR09_21_References.indd 310

Working Paper 2894, Centre for Economic Policy Research,
London.
———. 2005. “Transport Costs: Measures, Determinants, and
Regional Policy Implications for France.” Journal of Economic
Geography 5 (3): 319–49.
Commission for Africa (CFA). 2005. Our Common Interest: Report
of the Commission for Africa. London: CFA.
Connell, J., B. Dasgupta, R. Laishley, and M. Lipton. 1976. Migration from Rural Areas: The Evidence from Village Studies. Delhi:
Oxford University Press.
Costa, Dora L., and Matthew E. Kahn. 2000. “Power Couples:
Changes in the Locational Choice of the College Educated,
1940–1990.” Quarterly Journal of Economics 115 (4): 1287–315.
Coulibaly, Souleymane. 2006. “Regional Integration and the Persistent Uneven Spread of Economic Activities in Developing
Areas.” Economie Internationale 106 (2): 5–23.
———. 2007. “Evaluating the Trade Impact of Developing RTAs:
A Semi-Parametric Approach.” Policy Research Working Paper
4220, World Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2008. “On the Complementarity of Regional and Global
Trade.” Background paper for the WDR 2009.
Coulibaly, Souleymane, and Lionel Fontagné. 2006. “South-South
Trade: Geography Matters.” Journal of African Economies 15 (2):
313–41.
Crafts, Nicholas. 2005. “Regional GDP in Britain, 1871–1911:
Some Estimates.” Scottish Journal of Political Economy 52 (1):
54–64.
———. 2008. “Spatial Disparities in 19th-Century British Industrialization.” Background note for the WDR 2009.
Crafts, Nicholas, Terence C. Mills, and Abay Mulatu. 2007. “Total
Factor Productivity Growth on Britain’s Railways, 1852–1912: A
Reappraisal of the Evidence.” Exploration in Economic History 44
(4): 608–34.
Crafts, Nicholas, and Gianni Toniolo. 1996. Economic Growth in
Europe since 1945. Cambridge, U.K., and New York: Cambridge
University Press.
Crafts, Nicholas F. R. 1989. “British Industrialization in an International Context.” Journal of Interdisciplinary History 19 (3):
415–28.
Criscuolo, Chiara, Jonathan E. Haskel, and Mattew J. Slaughter.
2004. “Why Are Some Firms More Innovative? Knowledge
Inputs, Knowledge Stocks, and the Role of Global Engagement.”
Tuck School of Business, Hanover, NH.
CSAO-ECOWAS. 2005. Atlas des Transports et des Telecommunications dans la West African States. Paris and Abuja: Club Du Sahel
et de L’Afrique de L’Ouest and Economic Community of West
African States.
Cullinane, Sharon. 2002. “The Relationship between Car Ownership and Public Transport Provision: A Case Study of Hong
Kong.” Transport Policy 9 (1): 29–39.
Cutler, David, Angus Deaton, and Adriana Lleras-Muney. 2006.
“The Determinants of Mortality.” Journal of Economic Perspectives 20 (3): 97–120.
Czubala, Witold, Ben Shepherd, and John S. Wilson. 2007. “Help
or Hindrance? The Impact of Harmonized Standards on Afri-

10/10/08 10:08:03 AM

References

can Exports.” Policy Research Working Paper 4400, World Bank,
Washington, DC.
Da Mata, Daniel, Uwe Deichmann, J. Vernon Henderson, Somik V.
Lall, and Howard G Wang. 2007. “Determinants of City Growth
in Brazil.” Journal of Urban Economics 62 (2): 252–72.
Dall’Erba, Sandy. 2003. “The Trade-off Efficiency-Equity as an
Explanation of the Mitigated Success of the European Regional
Development Policies.” Working Paper 2 (3), EUC, Urbana, IL.
Davezies, Laurent. 2001. Policies for Sound Development. Paris:
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.
Davis, Donald R., and David E. Weinstein. 1999. “Economic Geography and Regional Production Structure: An Empirical Investigation.” European Economic Review 43 (2): 379–407.
Davis, Steven J., and John C. Haltiwanger. 1992. “Gross Job Creation, Gross Job Destruction, and Employment Reallocation.”
Quarterly Journal of Economics 107 (3): 819–63.
de Blij, Harm. 2005. Why Geography Matters: Three Challenges Facing America: Climate Change, the Rise of China, and Global Terrorism. New York: Oxford University Press.
De Brauw, Alan, and John Giles. 2008. “Migrant Labor Markets
and the Welfare of Rural Households in the Developing World:
Evidence from China.” Policy Research Working Paper 4585,
World Bank, Washington, DC.
de la Fuente, Angel. 2000. “Convergence across Countries and
Regions: Theory and Empirics.” Working Paper 2465, Centre for
Economic Policy Research, London.
———. 2004. “Second-Best Redistribution through Public Investment: A Characterization, an Empirical Test and an Application
to the Case of Spain.” Regional Science and Urban Economics 34
(5): 489–503.
de la Fuente, Angel, Xavier Vives, Juan J. Dolado, and Riccardo Faini.
1995. “Infrastructure and Education as Instruments of Regional
Policy: Evidence from Spain.” Economic Policy 10 (20): 11–51.
De Long, J. Bradford. 1988. “Productivity Growth, Convergence,
and Welfare: Comment.” American Economic Review 78 (5):
1138–54.
De Long, J. Bradford, and Andrei Shleifer. 1993. “Princes and Merchants: European City Growth before the Industrial Revolution.” Journal of Law and Economics 36 (2): 671–702.
de Soto, Hernando. 2000. The Mystery of Capital: Why Capitalism
Triumphs in the West and Fails Everywhere Else. London: Bantan
Press.
Decressin, Jörg, and Antonio Fatás. 1994. “Regional Labour Market Dynamics in Europe.” Working Paper DP1085, Centre for
Economic Policy Research, London.
Deichmann, Uwe, Marianne Fay, Jun Koo, and Somik V. Lall. 2004.
“Economic Structure, Productivity, and Infrastructure Quality
in Southern Mexico.” Annals of Regional Science 38 (3): 361–85.
Deichmann, Uwe, Kai Kaiser, Somik V. Lall, and Zmarak Shalizi.
2005. “Agglomeration, Transport, and Regional Development in
Indonesia.” Policy Research Working Paper 3477, World Bank,
Washington, DC.
Deichmann, Uwe, Somik V. Lall, Stephen J. Redding, and Anthony
J. Venables. 2008. “Industrial Location in Developing Countries.”
World Bank Research Observer 23(2): 219–46.

WDR09_21_References.indd 311

311

Deininger, Klaus W., and S. Jin. 2003. “Land Sales and Rental
Markets in Transition. Evidence from Rural Vietnam.” Policy
Research Working Paper 3013, World Bank, Washington, DC.
Dekle, Robert, and Jonathan Eaton. 1999. “Agglomeration and
Land Rents: Evidence from the Prefectures.” Journal of Urban
Economics 46 (2): 200–14.
Demurger, Sylvie, Jeffrey D. Sachs, Wing Thye Woo, Shuming Bao,
Gene Chang, and Andrew Mellinger. 2002. “Geography, Economic Policy and Regional Development in China.” Asian Economic Papers 1 (1): 146–97.
Deshingkar, Priya, and Sven Grimm. 2004. Voluntary Internal
Migration: An Update. London: Overseas Development Institute.
Desmet, Klaus, and Marcel Fafchamps. 2003. “What Are Falling
Transport Costs Doing to Spatial Concentration across U.S.
Counties?” Working Paper 3853, Centre for Economic Policy
Research, London.
———. 2006. “Employment Concentration across U.S. Counties.”
Regional Science and Urban Economics 36 (4): 482–509.
Deutsch, Robert. 2006. “Beneficiary Assessment of Land Titles
Recipients under Land Management and Administrative Project
(LMAP).”
Devereux, Michael P., Rachel Griffith, and Helen Simpson. 2004.
“The Geographic Distribution of Production Activity in the
U.K.” Regional Science and Urban Economics 34 (5): 533–64.
Dillinger, William. 2007. “Poverty and Regional Development in
Eastern Europe and Central Asia.” Working Paper 118, World
Bank, Washington, DC.
Disdier, Anne-Celia, and Keith Head. 2008. “The Puzzling Persistence of the Distance Effect on Bilateral Trade.” Review of Economics and Statistics 90 (1): 37–48.
Dixie, G. 2002. Review of Current and Future Airfreight Situation from Bangladesh. Dhaka: Accord Associates for the Hortex
Foundation.
Dixit, Avinash K., and Joseph E. Stiglitz. 1977. “Monopolistic
Competition and Optimum Product Diversity.” American Economic Review 67 (3): 297–308.
Djankov, Simeon, Caroline L. Freund, and Cong S. Pham. 2006.
“Trading on Time.” Policy Research Working Paper 3909, World
Bank, Washington, DC.
Dobkins, Linda Harris, and Yannis M. Ioannides. 2001. “Spatial
Interactions among U.S. Cities, 1900–1990.” Regional Science
and Urban Economics 31 (6): 701–31.
Docquier, Frédéric. 2006. “Brain Drain and Inequality across
Nations.” Paper presented at the EUDN-AFD Conference on
Migration and Development, Paris.
Docquier, Frédéric, Michel Beine, and Hillel Rapoport. 2006.
“Brain Drain and Human Capital Formation in Developing
Countries: Winner and Losers.” Working Paper 2006-23, Université Catholique de Louvain, Département des Sciences Economiques, Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium.
Dongguan Government. 2005. Guangdong Statistical Yearbook
2005. Beijing, China: China Statistics Press.
Donoso Clark, M., and M. Leninhan. 2008. “A Space-Based Development Framework: A Bottom-Up Approach to Economic Integration.” World Bank, Environmentally and Socially Sustainable

10/10/08 10:08:03 AM

312

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Development Unit, Europe and Central Asia Regional Office,
Washington, DC.
Donsky, Martin. 1990. “Putting a Spin on the Yarn Business: Macfield Tries to Get a Leg Up on Its Competition.” Business North
Carolina, September 1.
Dorosh, Paul A., Steven Haggblade, and Simon Dradri. 2007.
“Cotton in Zambia: Alternative Instruments for Ensuring Food
Security and Price Stability in Zambia.” Collaborative Working
Paper ZM-FSRP-WP-29, International Development, East Lansing, MI.
Douthat, Ross, Marshall Poe, and Abigail Cutler. 2006. “The Poor
get Richer.” Atlantic Monthly.
Drabenstott, Mark. 2005. A Review of the Federal Role in Regional
Economic Development. Kansas City, MO: Federal Reserve Bank
of Kansas City.
Duarte, Angelo José Mont Alverne, Pedro Cavalcanti Gomes Ferreira, and Marcio Antonio Salvato Jr. 2004. “Regional or Educational Disparities? A Counterfactual Exercise.” Working Paper
532, Fundação Getulio Vargas Department of Economics, Sâo
Paulo.
Dumais, Guy, Glenn Ellison, and Edward L. Glaeser. 2002. “Geographic Concentration as a Dynamic Process.” Review of Economics and Statistics 84 (2): 193–204.
Dumke, Rolf H. 1994. “Urban Inequality in Wilhemine Germany.”
Institut für Volkswirtscaftslehre, Universitat der Bundeswehr
Munchen, Munich, Germany.
Dunlap, David W. 1992. “Some Land-Use History Highlights.” New
York Times, April 12.
Dunlevy, James A., and Don Bellante. 1983. “Net Migration,
Endogenous Incomes and the Speed of Adjustment to the
North-South Differential.” Review of Economics and Statistics 65
(1): 66–75.
Dunne, Timothy, Mark J. Roberts, and Larry Samuelson. 1989a.
“Plant Turnover and Gross Employment Flows in the U.S.
Manufacturing Sector.” Journal of Labor Economics 7 (1):
48–71.
———. 1989b. “The Growth and Failure of U.S. Manufacturing
Plants.” Quarterly Journal of Economics 104 (4): 671–98.
Duranton, Gilles, and Henry G. Overman. 2002. “Testing for
Localization Using Micro-Geographic Data.” Working Paper
540, Centre for Economic Performance, London.
———. 2007. “Testing for Localization Using Micro-Geographic
Data.” Review of Economic Studies 72(4):1077–106.
Duranton, Gilles, and Diego Puga. 2000. “Diversity and Specialization in Cities: Why, Where, and When Does It Matter?” Urban
Studies 37 (3): 533–55.
———. 2001. “Nursery Cities: Urban Diversity, Process Innovation, and the Life Cycle of Products.” American Economic Review
91 (5): 1454–77.
———. 2004. “Micro-Foundations of Urban Agglomeration
Economies.” In Handbook of Urban and Regional Economies,
vol. 4, ed. J. Vernon Henderson and Jacque Thisse. Amsterdam:
North-Holland.
———. 2005. “From Sectoral to Functional Urban Specialization.”
Journal of Urban Economics 57 (2): 343–70.

WDR09_21_References.indd 312

Easterly, William, and Ross Levine. 2001. “What Have We Learned
from a Decade of Empirical Research on Growth? It’s Not Factor Accumulation: Stylized Facts and Growth Models.” World
Bank Economic Review 15 (2): 177–219.
Easterly, William, and Yaw Nyarko. 2008. “Is the Brain Drain Good
for Africa?” Working Paper 19, Brookings Global Economy and
Development, Washington, DC.
Eaton, Jonathan, and Zvi Eckstein. 1997. “Cities and Growth: Theory and Evidence from France and Japan.” Regional Science and
Urban Economics 27 (4–5): 443–74.
The Economist. 2007a. “A Flourishing Slum.” The Economist,
December 9.
———. 2007b. “Chile and Peru. Neighbours, But Not Yet Friends.”
The Economist, June 28.
The Economist Economic Intelligence Unit. 2007. China/India Technology: Leapfrogging or Piggybacking? London: The Economist.
Eeckhout, Jan. 2004. “Gibrat’s Law for (All) Cities.” American Economic Review 94 (5): 1429–51.
Ellison, Glenn, and Edward L. Glaeser. 1997. “Geographic Concentration in U.S. Manufacturing Industries: A Dartboard
Approach.” Journal of Political Economy 105 (5): 889–927.
Engel, Eduardo, Alexander Galetovic, and Claudio Raddatz. 1998.
“Taxes and Income Distribution in Chile: Some Unpleasant
Redistributive Arithmetic.” Documentos de Trabajo 41, Centro
de Economía Aplicada, Universidad de Chile, Santiago, Chile.
Engels, Friedrich. 1987. The Condition of the Working Class in England. New York: Penguin Books (original published in German
in 1945).
Escobal, Javier, and Maximo Torero. 2000. “Does Geography
Explain Differences in Economic Growth in Peru?” Research
Network Working Paper R-404, Inter-American Development
Bank, Washington, DC.
Estache, Antonio, and Marianne Fay. 2007. “Current Debates on
Infrastructure Policy.” Policy Research Working Paper 4410,
World Bank, Washington, DC.
Estache, Antonio, Marianela González, and Lourdes Trujillo. 2002.
“Efficiency Gains from Port Reform and the Potential for Yardstick Competition: Lessons from Mexico.” World Development
30 (4): 545–60.
Ethier, Wilfred J. 1982. “National and International Returns to
Scale in the Modern Theory of International Trade.” American
Economic Review 72(3):389–405.
Euractiv. 2008. Commission Defends Proposal on Pension ‘Portability.’ Brussels: Euractiv.
European Commission. 2001. Unity, Solidarity, Diversity for
Europe, its People and its Territory: Second Report on Economic
and Social Cohesion. Brussels: European Commission.
———. 2002. European Union Public Finance. Luxembourg: European Commission, Office for Official Publications of the European Communities.
———. 2007. Growing Regions, Growing Europe. Brussels: European Communities.
Evans, Carolyn L., and James E. Harrigan. 2005. “Distance, Time,
and Specialization: Lean Retailing in General Equilibrium.”
American Economic Review 95 (1): 292–313.

10/10/08 10:08:03 AM

References

Evans, Peter. 2002. Livable Cities? Urban Struggles for Livelihood
and Sustainability. Berkeley, CA: University of California Press.
Evenett, Simon J. 2005. “Competitive Liberalization: A Tournament Theory-Based Interpretation.” Paper presented at the
Sequencing of Regional Economic Integration: Issues in the
Breadth and Depth of Economic Integration in the Americas,
Notre Dame, IN.
Ezcurra, Roberto, and Pedro Pascual. 2007. “Spatial Disparities in
Productivity in Central and Eastern Europe.” Eastern European
Economics 45 (3): 5–32.
Fafchamps, Marcel, and Klaus Desmet. 2000. “The Changing Spatial Distribution of Economic Activity across U.S. Counties.”
Economic Working Paper 43, Oxford, U.K.
Faini, Riccardo. 1983. “Cumulative Process of Deindustrialization
in an Open Region: the Case of Southern Italy.” Journal of Development Economics 12 (3): 277–301.
———. 1996. “Increasing Returns, Migration, and Convergence.”
Journal of Development Economics 49 (1): 121–36.
Faini, Riccardo, Curzio Giannini, and Giampaolo Galli. 1993.
“Finance and Development: The Case of Southern Italy.” In
Finance and Development: Issues and Experience, ed. Alberto
Giovannini. Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge University Press.
Fan, Shenggen, Xiaobo Zhang, and Neetha Rao. 2004. “Public
Expenditure, Growth, and Poverty Reduction in Rural Uganda.”
IFPRI Working Paper 4, International Food Policy Research
Institute, Washington, DC.
Farvacque-Vitkovic, Catherine, Alicia Casalis, Christian Eghoff,
and Mahine Diop. 2007. “Development of the Cities of Mali:
Challenges and Priorities.” Africa Region Working Paper 104,
World Bank, Washington, DC.
Fay, Marianne, John Felkner, and Somik V. Lall. 2008. “Market
Access and Firm Productivity in the Russian Federation.” World
Bank, Washington, DC. Processed.
Fay, Marianne, and Charlotte Opal. 2000. “Urbanization without
Growth: A Not-So-Uncommon Phenomenon.” Policy Research
Working Paper 2412, World Bank, Washington, DC.
Fearon, James D., and David D. Laitin. 2003. “Additional Tables for
Ethnicity, Insurgency, and Civil War.” Stanford University, Palo
Alto, CA.
Feder, Gershon, and Peter Lanjouw. 2001. “Rural Non-farm Activities and Rural Development: From Experience towards Strategy.” Rural Development Strategy Background Paper 4, World
Bank, Washington, DC.
Feenstra, Robert C., and Gordon H. Hanson. 1997. “Foreign Direct
Investment and Relative Wages: Evidence from Mexico’s Maquiladoras.” Journal of International Economics 42 (3–4): 371–93.
Feldman, Maryann P. 1994. The Geography of Innovation. Boston,
MA: Kluwer.
Feldman, Maryann P., and David B. Audretsch. 1999. “Innovation
in Cities: Science-Based Diversity, Specialization, and Localized
Competition.” European Economic Review 43 (2): 409–29.
Ferreira, Afonso. 2000. “Convergence in Brazil: Recent Trends and
Long-Run Prospects.” Journal of Applied Economics 3 (4): 479–89.
Fingleton, Bernard. 2003. “Increasing Returns: Evidence from Local
Wages in Great Britain.” Oxford Economic Papers 55 (4): 716–39.

WDR09_21_References.indd 313

313

Fink, Carsten, and Aaditya Mattoo. 2004. “Regional Agreements
and Trade in Services: Policy Issues.” Journal of Economic Integration 19 (4): 742–79.
Fink, Carsten, Aaditya Mattoo, and Ileana Cristina Neagu. 2005.
“Assessing the Impact of Communication Costs on International Trade.” Journal of International Economics 67 (2): 428–45.
Fischer, Carolyn, Winston Harrington, and Ian W. H. Parry. 2007.
“Should Automobile Fuel Economy Standards Be Tightened?”
Energy Journal 28 (4): 1–30.
Fogel, Robert W. 1979. “Notes on the Social Savings Controversy.”
Journal of Economic History 39 (1): 1–54.
Fontagné, Lionel, Thierry Mayer, and Soledad Zignago. 2005.
“Trade in the Triad: How Easy Is the Access to Large Markets?”
Canadian Journal of Economics 38 (4): 1401–30.
Foroutan, Faezeh, and Lant Pritchett. 1993. “Intra-Sub-Saharan
African Trade: Is It Too Little?” Journal of African Economies 2
(1): 74–105.
Frankel, Jeffrey A., Ernesto Stein, and Shang-Jin Wei. 1996.
“Regional Trade Arrangements: Natural or Supernatural.” American Economic Review 86 (2): 52–6.
Freund, Caroline L., and Diana Weinhold. 2004. “The Effect of the
Internet on International Trade.” Journal of International Economics 62 (1): 171–89.
Fuentes, Ricardo, and Andrés Montes. 2004. “Mexico and the Millennium Development Goals in a Subnational Level.” Journal of
Human Development 5 (1): 97–120.
Fujita, Masahisa, ed. 2007. Regional Integration in East Asia: From
the Viewpoint of Spatial Economics. New York: Palgrave Macmillan.
Fujita, Masahisa, and Ryoichi Ishii. 1999. “Global Location Behavior and Organizational Dynamics of Japanese Electronics Firms
and Their Impact on Regional Economies.” In The Dynamic
Firm: The Role of Technology, Strategy, Organization, and
Regions, ed. Alfred D. Chandler Jr., Peter Hagstrom, and Orjan
Solvell. Oxford, U.K.: Oxford University Press.
Fujita, Masahisa, and Takatoshi Tabuchi. 1997. “Regional Growth
in Post War Japan.” Regional Science and Urban Economics 27
(6): 643–70.
Fujita, Masahisa, Paul Krugman, and Anthony J. Venables. 2001.
The Spatial Economy. Cities, Regions, and International Trade.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Fuss, Melvyn A., and Vinod K. Gupta. 1981. “A Cost Function
Approach to the Estimation of Minimum Efficient Scale,
Returns to Scale, and Suboptimal Capacity: With an Application
to Canadian Manufacturing.” European Economic Review 15 (2):
123–35.
Gabaix, Xavier, and Yannis M. Ioannides. 2004. “Evolution of City
Size Distributions.” In Handbook of Urban and Regional Economics, vol. 4, ed. J. Vernon Henderson and Jacque-Francois
Thisse. Amsterdam: Elsevier.
Gakenheimer, Ralph. 1999. “Urban Mobility in the Developing
World.” Transportation Research Part A: Policy and Practice 33
(7): 671–89.
Gallaway, Lowell E., and Richard K. Vedder. 1971. “Mobility of
Native Americans.” Journal of Economic History 31 (3): 613–49.

10/10/08 10:08:04 AM

314

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Gallup, John L., Jeffrey D. Sachs, and Andrew D. Mellinger. 1999.
“Geography and Economic Development.” International
Regional Science Review 22 (2): 179–232.
Garau, Pietro. 2008. Notes for the State of the World’s Cities Report
2008: Policy Analysis and Recommendations. Nairobi: UNHABITAT.
García-Verdú, Rodrigo. 2005. “Income, Mortality, and Literacy
Distribution Dynamics across States in Mexico: 1940–2000.”
Cuadernos de Economía 42 (125): 165–92.
Garrett, James. 2005. Mobility, Migration, and Rural-Urban
Changes, Brief 2. Washington, DC: International Food Policy
Research Institute.
Garrett, Power. 2002. “Slums of Baltimore.” In From Mobtown to
Charm City: New Perspectives on Baltimore’s Past, ed. Jessica L.
Elfenbein, John R. Breihan, and Thomas L. Hollowak. Baltimore, MD: Maryland Historical Society.
Gaspar, Jess, and Edward L. Glaeser. 1998. “Information Technology and the Future of Cities.” Journal of Urban Economics
43(1):136–56.
Gastner, Michael T. and Mark E. J. Newman. 2004. “Diffusionbased method for producing density-equalizing maps.” Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 101, 20:7499–7504.
Gauthier, Jean-Paul. 2007. Special Economic Zones: Performance,
Lessons Learned, and Implications for Zone Development. Washington, DC: World Bank, Foreign Investment Advisory Service.
Gibbon, Peter, and Stefano Ponte. 2005. Trading Down: Africa,
Value Chains, and the Global Economy. Philadelphia: Temple
University Press.
Gibson, John, and Scott Rozelle. 2003. “Poverty and Access to
Roads in Papua New Guinea.” Economic Development and Cultural Change 52 (1): 159–85.
Gill, Indermit, and Homi Kharas. 2007. An East Asia Renaissance:
Ideas for Economic Growth. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Gilman, Sidney. 1984. The Competitive Dynamics of Container
Shipping. Liverpool, U.K.: Gower Publishing.
Glaeser, Edward L., and Matthew E. Kahn. 2001. “Decentralized
Employment and the Transformation of the American City.”
Working Paper 1912, Harvard Institute of Economic Research,
Cambridge, MA.
Glaeser, Edward L., Hedi D. Kallal, José A. Scheinkman, and Andrei
Shleifer. 1992. “Growth in Cities.” Journal of Political Economy
100 (6): 1126–52.
Glaeser, Edward L., Jed Kolko, and Albert Saiz. 2001. “Consumer
City.” Journal of Economic Geography 1 (1): 27–50.
Glaeser, Edward L., and David C. Maré. 2001. “Cities and Skills.”
Journal of Labor Economics 19 (2): 316–42.
Glaeser, Edward L., José A. Scheinkman, and Andrei Schleifer.
1995. “Economic Growth in a Cross-Section of Cities.” Journal
of Monetary Economics 36 (1): 117–43.
Golob, Thomas F., and David Brownstone. 2005. “The Impact of
Residential Density on Vehicle Usage and Energy Consumption.” Energy Institute Policy and Economics Working Paper
EPE-011, University of California, Berkeley, CA.
Good, David F. 1986. “Uneven Development in the Nineteenth
Century: A Comparison of the Habsburg Empire and the
United States.” Journal of Economic History 46 (1): 137–51.

WDR09_21_References.indd 314

Goodlad, R. 1996. “The Housing Challenge in South Africa.”
Urban Studies 33 (9): 1629–45.
Gordon, Robert J. 1990. The Measurement of Durable Goods Prices.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Gorzelak, Grzegorz. 2007. “Cohesion and Convergence: Synonyms
or Two Different Notions?” Paper presented at the Policy Workshop “Spatial Disparities and Development Policy,” Berlin.
Gottman, Jean. 1977. “Megalopolis and Antipolis: The Telephone
and the Structure of the City.” In Ithiel de Sola Pool, (eds.), The
Social Impact of the Telephone. Cambridge, MA: Massachusetts
Institute of Technology.
Government of India Planning Commission. 2002a. 10th Five Year
Plan (2002–2007). New Delhi: Government of India, Planning
Commission.
———. 2002b. National Human Development Report 2001. New
Delhi: Government of India, Planning Commission.
———. 2006. Towards Faster and More Inclusive Growth: An
approach to the Eleventh Five Year Plan 2007–2012. New Delhi:
Government of India.
Government of Malaysia. 2001. Eight Malaysia Plan: 2001–2005.
Kuala Lumpur: Malaysia Economic Planning Unit.
Government of Nigeria, Federal Ministry of Science and Technology. 2003. Multi-Disciplinary Committee Report of the TechnoEconomic Survey on Wood and Wood Products Sector, 2003, 4th
Update. Lagos: Government of Nigeria, Federal Ministry of Science and Technology.
Government of Sri Lanka. 2008. Poverty Indicators Household Income
and Expenditure Survey, 2006–07. Colombo: Sri Lanka Department of Census and Statistics, Ministry of Planning and Finance.
Goyal, Sanjeev, and Klaas Staal. 2004. “The Political Economy of
Regionalism.” European Economic Review 48 (3): 563–93.
Green, Alan G. 1969. “Regional Inequality, Structural Change, and
Economic Growth in Canada, 1890–1956.” Economic Development and Cultural Change 17 (4): 567–83.
Gregoire, Emmanuel, and Pascal Labazee. 1993. Grands Commerçants d’Afrique de l’Ouest. Paris: Karthala-Orstom.
Greytak, David, and Paul Blackley. 1985. “Labor Productivity and
Local Industry Size: Further Issues in Assessing Agglomeration
Economies.” Southern Economic Journal 51 (4): 1121–29.
Gribbin, August. 2000. “Overpopulated Megacities Face Frightening Future: Overpopulation in Developing Countries Impact on
the West.” Insight on the News, August 21.
Griliches, Zvi, and Vidar Ringstad. 1971. Economies of Scale and the
Form of the Production Function: An Econometric Study of Norwegian Manufacturing Establishment Data. Amsterdam: NorthHolland.
Grossman, Gene M., and Elhanan Helpman. 1991. “Quality Ladders in the Theory of Growth.” Review of Economic Studies
58(1):43–61.
———. 1995. “Technology and Trade.” In Gene M. Grossman and
Kenneth Rogoff, (eds.), Handbook of International Economics,
Volume III. Amsterdam, Netherlands: North-Holland.
Groupe Recherche—Actions pour le Développement. 2001.
“Potentialités et Conflits dans les Zones Péri-urbaines: Le Cas
de Bamako au Mali.” Rural-Urban Interactions and Livelihood
Strategies Working Paper 5, IIED, London.

10/10/08 10:08:04 AM

References

Guasch, Juan Luis. 2008. Exporting by Mail: An Innovative Trade
Facilitation Tool. Washington, DC: World Bank, IFC Smart Lessons.
Guerra, Carlos A., Priscilla W. Gikandi, Andrew J. Tatem, Abdisalan M. Noor, Dave L. Smith, Simon I. Hay, and Robert W.
Snow. 2008. “The Limits and Intensity of Plasmodium Falciparum Transmission: Implications for Malaria Control and
Elimination Worldwide.” Plos Medicine 5 (2): e38–e38.
Gupta, Vinod K. 1983. “Labor Productivity, Establishment Size,
and Scale Economies.” Southern Economic Journal 49(3):853–9.
Gwatkin, Davidson R., Shea Rutstein, Kiersten Johnson, Eldaw Suliman, Adam Wagstaff, and Agbessi Amouzou. 2007. Socio-Economic
Differences in Health, Nutrition, and Population within Developing
Countries: An Overview. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Hall, Carolyn. 1984. “Regional Inequalities in Well-Being in Costa
Rica.” Geographical Review 74 (1): 48–62.
Hall, Peter. 2002. Cities of Tomorrow. Oxford, U.K.: Blackwell Publishing.
Hall, Robert E. 1988. “The Relation between Price and Marginal
Cost in U.S. Industry.” Journal of Political Economy 96 (5):
921–47.
———. 1990. “Invariance Properties of Solow’s Productivity
Residual.” In Growth, Productivity, Unemployment: Essays to
Celebrate Bob Solow’s Birthday, ed. Peter Diamond. Cambridge,
MA: MIT Press.
Hall, Thomas, and Sonja Vidén. 2005. “The Million Homes Programme: A Review of the Great Swedish Planning Model.” Planning Perspectives 20 (3): 301–28.
Hamaguchi, Nobuaki. Forthcoming. “Regional Integration,
Agglomeration, and Income Distribution in East Asia.” In
Reshaping Economic Geography in East Asia, ed. Yukon Huang
and Alessandro Magnoli Bocchi. Washington, DC: World Bank,
EAP Companion Volume to the WDR 2009.
Hammond, George William, and Jürgen von Hagen. 1994. “Industrial Localization: An Empirical Test for Marshallian Localization Economies.” Working Paper 917, Centre for Economic
Policy Research, London.
Hancock, Diana, David B. Humphrey, and James A. Wilcox. 1999.
“Cost Reductions in Electronic Payments: The Roles of Consolidation, Economies of Scale, and Technical Change.” Journal of
Banking and Finance 23 (2–4): 391–421.
Hansen, Eric R. 1990. “Agglomeration Economics and Industrial
Decentralization: The Wage-Productivity Trade-Offs.” Journal of
Urban Economics 28(2):140–59.
Hanson, Gordon H. 1996. “Agglomeration, Dispersion, and the
Pioneer Firm.” Journal of Urban Economics 39 (3): 255–81.
———. 1998a. “North American Economic Integration and
Industry Location.” Oxford Review of Economic Policy 14 (2):
30–44.
———. 1998b. “Regional Adjustment to Trade Liberalization.”
Regional Science and Urban Economics 28 (4): 419–44.
Hardoy, Jorge E., and David Satterthwaite. 1989. Squatter Citizen:
Life in the Urban Third World. London: Earthscan.
Hargan, Jim. 2007. “Prince Charles Poundbury.” Brittish Heritage.
May, 2007.

WDR09_21_References.indd 315

315

Harley, C. Knick. 1980. “Transportation, the World Wheat Trade,
and the Kuznets Cycle, 1850–1913.” Explorations in Economic
History 17 (3): 218–50.
Harrigan, James E. 2005. “Airplanes and Comparative Advantage.”
NBER Working Paper 11688, National Bureau of Economic
Research, Cambridge, MA.
Harrigan, James E., and Anthony J. Venables. 2006. “Timeliness and Agglomeration.” Journal of Urban Economics 59 (2):
300–16.
Harris, John R., and Michael P. Todaro. 1970. “Migration, Unemployment, and Development: A Two-Sector Analysis.” American
Economic Review 60 (1): 126–42.
Hau, Timothy. 1990. “Electronic Road Pricing: Developments in
Hong Kong, 1983–1989.” Journal of Transport Economics and
Policy 24 (2): 203–14.
Haussmann, Ricardo, and Dani Rodrik. 2003. “Economic Development as Self-Discovery.” Journal of Development Economics 72
(2): 603–33.
Haussmann, Ricardo, Dani Rodrik, and Andrés Velasco. 2005.
“Growth Diagnostics.” Center for International Development,
Cambridge, MA.
Hay, Donald Andrew. 1979. “The Location of Industry in a Developing Country: The Case of Brazil.” Oxford Economic Papers 31
(1): 93–120.
Hay, Simon I., Carlos A. Guerra, Andrew J. Tatem, Abdisalan M.
Noor, and Robert W. Snow. 2004. “The Global Distribution and
Population at Risk of Malaria: Past, Present, and Future.” Lancet
Infectious Diseases 4 (6): 327–36.
Hay, Simon I., David L. Smith, and Robert W. Snow. 2008. “Measuring Malaria Endemicity from Intense to Interrupted Transmission.” Lancet Infectious Diseases 8 (6): 369–78.
Hayashi, Takehisa. 2003. Readings on Local Public Finance. Tokyo:
Toyo Keizai Shinposya.
Hazlewood, Arthur. 1979. “The End of the East African Community: What Are the Lessons for Regional Integration Schemes?”
Journal of Common Market Studies 18 (1): 40–58.
He, Canfei. Forthcoming. “Industrial Agglomeration and Economic Performance in the Transitional China.” In Reshaping
Economic Geography in East Asia, ed. Yukon Huang and Alessandro Magnoli Bocchi. Washington, DC: World Bank, EAP
Companion Volume to the WDR 2009.
Head, Charles Keith, and Thierry Mayer. 2006. “Regional Wage and
Employment Responses to Market Potential in the EU.” Regional
Science and Urban Economics 36 (5): 573–94.
Head, Charles Keith, John Reis, and Deborah Swenson. 1995.
“Agglomeration Benefits and Location Choice: Evidence from
Japanese Manufacturing Investment in the United States.” Journal of International Economics 38 (3–4): 223–47.
Heideloff, Christel, and Manfred Zachcial. 2006. Shipping Statistical Yearbook 2006. Bremen, Germany: Institute of Shipping Economics and Logistics.
Helliwell, John F. 2002. “Measuring the Width of National Borders.” Review of International Economics 10 (3): 517–24.
Helpman, Elhanan, and Paul Krugman. 1987. Market Structure and
Foreign Trade. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.

10/10/08 10:08:04 AM

316

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Henderson, J. Vernon. 1974. “The Sizes and Types of Cities.” American Economic Review 64 (4): 640–56.
———. 1986. “Efficiency of Resources Usage and City Size.” Journal of Urban Economics 19 (1): 47–70.
———. 1994. “Where Does an Industry Locate?” Journal of Urban
Economics 35(1):83–104.
———. 1997a. “Externalities and Industrial Development.” Journal of Urban Economics 42 (3): 449–70.
———. 1997b. “Medium Size Cities.” Regional Science and Urban
Economics 27 (6): 583–612.
———. 2003a. “Marshall’s Scale Economies.” Journal of Urban
Economics 53 (1): 1–28.
———. 2003b. “The Urbanization Process and Economic Growth:
The So-What Question.” Journal of Economic Growth 8 (1):
47–71.
———. 2005a. “Development and Growth.” In Handbook of Economic Growth, vol. 1, part B, ed. Philippe Aghion and Steven N.
Durlauf. Amsterdam: North-Holland.
———. 2005b. “Urbanization and Growth.” In Handbook of Economic Growth, ed. Philippe Aghion and Steven N. Durlauf.
Amsterdam: North-Holland.
———. 2007. Urbanization in China: Policy Issues and Options.
New York: China Economic Research and Advisory Programme.
Henderson, J. Vernon, Ari Kuncoro, and Damhuri Nasution. 1996.
“The Dynamics of Jabotabek Development.” Bulletin of Indonesian Economic Studies 32 (1): 71–95.
Henderson, J. Vernon, Ari Kuncoro, and Matthew Turner. 1995.
“Industrial Development in Cities.” Journal of Political Economy
103 (5): 1067–90.
Henderson, J. Vernon, Todd Lee, and Yung Joon Lee. 2001. “Scale
Externalities in Korea.” Journal of Urban Economics 49 (3): 479–504.
Henderson, J. Vernon, Zmarak Shalizi, and Anthony J. Venables.
2001. “Geography and Development.” Journal of Economic Geography 1 (1): 81–105.
Henriksen, Ingrid. 2003. “Freehold Tenure in Late Eighteenth Century Denmark.” In Advances in Agricultural Economic History,
ed. Kyle D. Kaufman. New York: JAI Press.
Henry, Peter Blair. 2007. “Capital Account Liberalization: Theory,
Evidence, and Speculation.” Journal of Economic Literature 45
(4): 887–935.
Hering, Laura, and Sandra Poncet. 2006. “Market Access and Individual Wages: Evidence from China.” Working Paper 2006-23,
Centre d’Études Prospectives et d’Informations Internationales,
Paris.
Herzog, Henry W. Jr., and Alan M. Schlottmann, eds. 1991. Industry
Location and Public Policy. Knoxville, TN: University of Tennessee.
Hewings, G., E. Feser, and K. Poole. 2008. “Spatial/Territorial
Development Policies in the United States.” Background paper
for the WDR 2009.
Hidalgo, C. A., B. Klinger, A. L. Barabási, and R. Hausmann.
2007. “The Product Space Conditions for the Development of
Nations.” Science 317 (5837): 482–87.
Hill, Fiona, and Clifford Gaddy. 2003. The Siberia Curse: How
Communist Planners Left Russia out in the Cold. Washington,
DC: Brookings Institution Press.

WDR09_21_References.indd 316

Hill, Hal, Budy Resosudarmo, and Yogi Vidyattama. 2007. “Indonesia’s Changing Economic Geography.” Working Papers in Economics and Development Studies 2007-13, Bandung, Indonesia.
Hoekman, Bernard. 2006. “Liberalizing Trade in Services: A Survey.” Policy Research Working Paper 4030, World Bank, Washington, DC.
Hoekman, Bernard, and Dominique Njinkeu. 2007. “Aid for Trade
and Export Competitiveness: New Opportunities for Africa.”
World Bank, Washington, DC.
Holmes, Thomas J. 1999. “Localization of Industry and Vertical Disintegration.” Review of Economics and Statistics 81 (2):
314–25.
Holmes, Thomas J., and John J. Stevens. 2002. “Geographic Concentration and Establishment Scale.” Review of Economics and
Statistics 84 (4): 682–91.
Holzmann, Hajo, and Sebastian Vollmer. 2008. “The Distribution
of Income across German Counties, 1992–2005.” University of
Goettingen, Goettingen, Germany.
Hoover, Edgar M., and Raymond Vernon. 1959. Anatomy of a
Metropolis: The Changing Distribution of People and Jobs within
the New York Metropolitan Area. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Huang, Yukon, and Xubei Luo. Forthcoming. “Reshaping Economic Geography in China.” In Reshaping Economic Geography
in East Asia, ed. Yukon Huang and Alessandro Magnoli Bocchi.
Washington, DC: World Bank.
Huber, Peter W. 1995. “New York, Capital of the Information Age.”
New York City Journal 5(1):12–22.
Hughes, Joseph P., William W. Lang, Loretta J. Mester, and ChoonGeol Moon. 1999. “The Dollars and Sense of Bank Consolidation.” Journal of Banking and Finance 23 (2–4): 291–324.
Hughes, Joseph P., and Loretta J. Mester. 1998. “Bank Capitalization and Cost: Evidence of Scale Economies in Risk Management and Signaling.” Review of Economics and Statistics 80 (2):
314–25.
Hulten, Charles R. 2007. “Transportation Infrastructure, Productivity and Externalities.” In ECMT Round Tables No. 132: Transport, Infrastructure Investment and Economic Productivity, ed.
OECD/ECMT. Paris: Organisation for Economic Co-operation
and Development.
Hummels, David. 2001. Time as a Trade Barrier. West Lafayette,
IN: Purdue University Press.
———. 2007. “Transportation Costs and International Trade in
the Second Era of Globalization.” Journal of Economic Perspectives 21 (3): 131–54.
Hummels, David, Volodymyr Lugovskyy, and Alexandre Skiba.
2007. “The Trade Reducing Effect of Market Power in International Shipping.” NBER Working Paper 12914, National Bureau
of Economic Research, Cambridge, MA.
Hunt, Edward H. 1986. “Industrialization and Regional Inequality:
Wages in Britain, 1760–1914.” Journal of Economic History 46
(4): 935–66.
Hunt, Jennifer. 2000. “Why Do People Still Live in East Germany?”
NBER Working Paper 7564, National Bureau of Economic
Research, Cambridge, MA.

10/10/08 10:08:05 AM

References

Hurd, John II. 1975. “Railways and the Expansion of Markets in
India, 1861–1921.” Explorations in Economic History 12 (3):
263–88.
Iliffe, John. 1995. Africans: The History of a Continent. Cambridge,
U.K.: Cambridge University Press.
Independent Evaluation Group (IEG). 2007. “The Development
Potential of Regional Programs: An Evaluation of World Bank
Support of Multicountry Operations.” Paper presented at the
IEG Conference on Unlocking the Potential of Regional Development Programs, Washington, DC.
Ingram, Gregory. 1997. “Patterns of Metropolitan Development:
What Have We Learned?” Policy Research Working Paper 1841,
World Bank, Washington, DC.
Ingram, Gregory, and John Whitehead. 2008. “The Distribution and Concentration of Population in the U.S., 1900–2000.”
Working Paper WP08GI1, Lincoln Institute of Land Policy,
Cambridge, MA.
Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatística (IBGE). 2004. Perfil
Dos Municipios Brasileiros. Rio de Janeiro: IBGE.
Inter-American Development Bank. Forthcoming. Unclogging
the Arteries: A Report on the Impact of Transport Costs on Latin
American and Caribbean Trade. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
International Air Transport Association. 2007a. Aviation Economic
Benefits: Issues Briefing No. 8. Montreal, Canada: International
Air Transport Association.
———. 2007b. Economics Briefing: Air Freight Market Outlook.
Montreal, Canada: International Air Transport Association.
International Development Association, and World Bank. 2008.
Regional Integration Assistance Strategy. Washington, DC: World
Bank.
International Monetary Fund. 1998. World Economic Outlook.
Financial Crises: Causes and Indicators. Washington, DC: International Monetary Fund.
———. 2007. Directions of Trade. Washington, DC: International
Monetary Fund.
Ivaldi, Marc, and Gerard McCullough. 2007. “Railroad Pricing and
Revenue-to-Cost Margins in the Post-Staggers Era.” In Research
in Transportation Economics, ed. Scott Dennis and Wayne Talley.
Amsterdam: Elsevier.
Jacobs, Jane. 1970. The Economy of Cities. New York: Vintage.
Jacoby, Hanan G. 2000. “Access to Markets and the Benefits of
Rural Roads.” Economic Journal 110 (465): 713–37.
Jaffe, Adam B. 1986. “Technological Opportunity and Spillover of
R&D: Evidence from Firms’ Patents, Profits, and Market Value.”
American Economic Review 76 (5): 984–1001.
Jaffe, Adam B., Manuel Trajtenberg, and Rebecca Henderson. 1993.
“Geographic Localization of Knowledge Spillovers as Evidence by
Patent Citations.” Quarterly Journal of Economics 108 (3): 577–98.
Jayne, Thomas S., B. Zulu, D. Mather, E. Mghenyi, E. Chirwa, and
David L. Tschirley. 2005. “Maize Marketing and Trade Policy in
a Pro-Poor Agricultural Growth Strategy: Insights from Household Surveys in Eastern and Southern Africa.” Paper presented
at Toward Improved Maize Marketing and Trade Policies in the
Southern Africa Region, Centurion, South Africa.

WDR09_21_References.indd 317

317

Jensen, Robert. 2007. “The Digital Provide: Information (Technology), Market Performance, and Welfare in the South Indian
Fisheries Sector.” Quarterly Journal of Economics 122 (3): 879–
924.
Jessen, Anneje. 2002. “Regional Public Goods and Small Economies: The Caribbean Regional Negotiating Machinery.” In
Regional Public Goods: From Theory to Practice, ed. Antoni Estevadeordal, Brian Frantz, and Tam R. Nguyen. Washington, DC:
Inter-American Development Bank and Asian Development
Bank.
Jones, Gareth A., and Kavita Datta. 2000. “Enabling Markets to
Work? Housing Policy in the ‘New’ South Africa.” International
Planning Studies 5 (3): 393–416.
Jourdan, Paul, and NEPAD. 2006. “Regional Strategies. The Case
for a Resource-Based Spatial Development Programme.” Paper
presented at the U.S.–Africa Infrastructure Conference, Washington, DC.
Junius, Karsten. 1997. “Economies of Scale: A Survey of Empirical
Literature.” Working Paper 813, Kiel Institute of World Economics, Kiel, Germany.
Justman, Moshe. 1994. “The Effect of Local Demand on Industry
Location.” Review of Economics and Statistics 76 (4): 742–53.
Kaldor, Nicholas. 1972. “The Irrelevance of Equilibrium Economics.” Economic Journal 82 (328): 1237–55.
Kamada, Kimiyoshi, Nobuhiro Okuno, and Ritsuko Futagami.
1998. “Decisions on Regional Allocation of Public Investment:
the Case of Japan.” Applied Economic Letters 5 (8): 503–6.
Kanbur, Ravi, and Anthony J. Venables. 2005. Rising Spatial Disparities and Development: Why Do they Matter? Oxford, U.K.:
Oxford University Press, UNU-WIDER Studies in Development
Economics.
Kanbur, Ravi, and Xiaobo Zhang. 2005. “Fifty Years of Regional
Inequality in China: A Journey through Central Planning,
Reform, and Openness.” Review of Development Economics 9 (1):
87–106.
Kasekende, Louis A., and Nehemiah Ng’eno. 1999. “Regional Integration and Economic Liberalization in Eastern and Southern
Africa.” In Regional Integration and Trade Liberalization in SubSaharan Africa, Volume 3: Regional Case-Studies, ed. Ademola
Oyejide, Ibrahim Elbadawi, and Stephen Yeo. London: Palgrave
Macmillan Press.
Kawashima, Tatsuhiko. 1975. “Urban Agglomeration Economies
in Manufacturing Industries.” Papers in Regional Science 34 (1):
157–72.
Kearns, Kevin C. 2006. Dublin’s Lost Heroines: Mammies and Grannies in a Vanished Dublin. Park West, Dublin: Gill and Macmillan.
Kee, Hiau Looi, Alessandro Nicita, and Marcelo Olarreaga. 2006.
“Estimating Trade Restiveness Indices.” Policy Research Working
Paper 3840, World Bank, Washington, DC.
Keefer, Philip, and Stuti Khemani. 2005. “Democracy, Public
Expenditures, and the Poor: Understanding Political Incentives
for Providing Public Services.” World Bank Research Observer
Advance Access 20 (1): 1–27.
Kenworthy, Jeff. 2005. “Transport Energy Use and Greenhouse
Gases in Urban Passenger Transport Systems: A Study of 84

10/10/08 10:08:05 AM

318

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Global Cities.” Institute for Sustainability and Technology Policy, Murdoch University, Murdoch, Australia.
Kenya Ministry of Planning and National Development and
UNDP. 2005. Millennium Development Goals Country Report
2005: Kenya. Nairobi: United Nations and Kenya Ministry of
Planning and National Development.
Khanna, Tarun. 2008. Billions of Entrepreneurs: How China and
India Are Reshaping Their Futures—and Yours. Cambridge, MA:
Harvard Business School Press.
Kilkenny, Maureen. 1998. “Economies of Scale. Lecture for Economics 376: Rural, Urban and Regional Economics.” Iowa State
University. Ames, IA.
Kilroy, Austin. 2008. “Intra-Urban Spatial Inequalities: Cities as
‘Urban Regions.’” Background paper for the WDR 2009.
Kim, Sukkoo. 1995. “Expansion of Markets and the Geographic
Distribution of Economic Activities: The Trends in U.S.
Regional Manufacturing Structure, 1860–1987.” Quarterly Journal of Economics 110 (4): 881–908.
———. 1999. “Regions, Resources, and Economics Geography:
Sources of U.S. Regional Comparative Advantage, 1880–1987.”
Regional Science and Urban Economics 29 (1): 1–32.
Kim, Sukkoo, and Robert A. Margo. 2004. “Historical Perspectives
on U.S. Economic Geography.” In Handbook of Regional and
Urban Economics, Volume 4: Cities and Geography, ed. J. Vernon
Henderson and Jacque-Francois Thisse. Amsterdam: NorthHolland.
Kim, Won Bae. 1998. “Korea’s Policy of Rural-Urban Integrated
Cities.” Paper presented at the International Workshop on Rural
and Urban Linkages, Curitiba, Brazil.
Kloeppinger-Todd, Renate. 2007. “ICT and Rural Access to
Finance.” Paper presented at the infoDev/ARD Workshop on
Using ICT to Support Rural Livelihoods, Washington, DC.
Knoke, William. 1996. Bold New World: The Essential Road Map to
the Twenty-First Century. New York: Kodansha International.
Koh, Tommy, and Li Lin Chang, eds. 2005. The Little Red Dot:
Reflections by Singapore’s Diplomats. Singapore: World Scientific
Publishing.
Kolko, Jed. 1998. “New England at Your Service: The New Geography of Service Industries.” Regional Review 1998 (Q4): 6–11.
———. 1999. “Can I Get Some Service Here? Information Technology, Service Industries, and the Future of Cities.” Ph.D. thesis, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA.
———. 2000. “The Death of Cities? The Death of Distance? Evidence from the Geography of Commercial Internet Usage.” In
The Internet Upheaval, ed. Ingo Vogelsang and Benjamin Compaine. Cambridge, MA: MIT.
———. 2007. “Agglomeration and Co-Agglomeration of Services
Industries.” Munich Personal RePEc Archive (MPRA) Working
Paper 3362, Munich, Germany.
Koola, J., and Caglar Özden. 2008. “Making the Move: The Effect
of Migration on Welfare in Uganda.” World Bank, Washington,
DC.
Kose, M. Ayhan, Eswar Prasad, Kenneth Rogoff, and Shang-Jin
Wei. 2006. “Financial Globalization: A Reappraisal.” Working
Paper 06/189, International Monetary Fund, Washington, DC.

WDR09_21_References.indd 318

Kraske, Jochen, William H. Becker, William Diamond, and Louis
Galambos. 1996. Bankers with a Mission: The Presidents of the
World Bank, 1946–91. Oxford, U.K.: Oxford University Press.
Krishna, Pravin. 1998. “Regionalism and Multilateralism: A Political Economy Approach.” Quarterly Journal of Economics 113 (1):
227–50.
Kroehnert, Steffen, Franziska Medicus, and Reiner Kinglolz. 2006.
Die Demografische Lage der Nation. Wie Zukunftsfaehig sind
Deutschlands Regionen? Daten, Fakten, Analysen. Berlin: Berlin
Institute for Population and Development.
Kroehnert, Steffen, and Sebastian Vollmer. 2008. “Where Have All
Young Women Gone?” Background paper for the WDR 2009.
Krueger, Anne O. 2006. “Globalization and International Locational Competition.” Paper presented at the Symposium in
Honor of Herbert Giersch, Kiel, Germany.
Krugman, Paul R. 1980. “Scale Economies, Product Differentiation,
and the Pattern of Trade.” American Economic Review 70(5):950–9.
———. 1981. “Intraindustry Specialization and the Gains from
Trade.” Journal of Political Economy 89(5):959–73.
———. 1991a. Geography and Trade. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
———. 1991b. “Increasing Returns and Economic Geography.”
Journal of Political Economy 99 (3): 483–99.
———. 1991c. “Is Bilateralism Bad?” In International Trade and
Trade Policy, ed. Elhanan Helpman and Assaf Razin. Cambridge,
MA: MIT Press.
———. 1993. “First Nature, Second Nature, and Metropolitan
Location.” Journal of Regional Science 33 (2): 129–44.
———. 1995. “Innovation and Agglomeration: Two Parables Suggested by City-Size Distributions.” Japan and the World Economy
7 (4): 371–90.
———. 2007. “The ‘New’ Economic Geography: Where Are We?”
In Regional Integration in East Asia, ed. Masahisa Fujita. New
York: Palgrave Macmillan.
Kuncoro, Ari. Forthcoming. “Spatial Agglomeration, Site Productivity and Local Governance: Indonesian Experience from
1980 to 2003.” In Yukon Huang and Alessandro Magnoli Bocchi
(eds.) Reshaping Economic Geography in East Asia. Washington,
DC: World Bank, EAP Companion Volume to the WDR 2009.
Kuroda, Haruhiko. 2007. “Toward an Integrated, Poverty-Free and
Peaceful East Asia.” In East Asia Visions: Perspectives on Economic
Development, ed. Indermit Gill, Yukon Huang, and Homi Kharas. Washington, DC, and Singapore: World Bank.
Ladman, Jerry R. 1979. “The Economic Interdependence of Contiguous Border Cities: The Twin City Multiplier.” Annals of
Regional Science 13 (1): 23–28.
Laeven, Luc, and Christopher Woodruff. 2007. “The Quality of the
Legal System, Firm Ownership, and Firm Size.” Review of Economics and Statistics 89 (4): 601–14.
Lall, Somik V. 2005. “City Performance and Policy Actions.” In
Inputs for a Strategy of Cities in Brazil, ed. World Bank. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Lall, Somik V., Uwe Deichmann, Mattias K. A. Lundberg, and
Nazmul Chaudhury. 2004. “Tenure, Diversity, and Commitment: Community Participation for Urban Service Provision.”
Journal of Development Studies 40 (3): 1–26.

10/10/08 10:08:05 AM

References

Lall, Somik V., Elizabeth Schroeder, and Emily Schmidt. 2008.
“Geographically Prioritizing Infrastructure Improvements to
Accelerate Growth in Uganda.” World Bank, Washington, DC.
Lall, Somik V., Harris Selod, and Zmarak Shalizi. 2006. “RuralUrban Migration in Developing Countries: A Survey of Theoretical Predictions and Empirical Findings.” Policy Research
Working Paper 3915, World Bank, Washington, DC.
Lall, Somik V., Hyoung Gun Wang, and Uwe Deichmann. 2008.
“Infrastructure and City Competitiveness in India.” Policy
Research Working Paper, World Bank, Washington, DC.
Land Enquiry Commission. 1914. The Land, vol. II. London: Hodder and Stoughton.
Landes, David S. 1998. The Wealth and Poverty of Nations: Why
Some Are So Rich and Some So Poor. New York: W. W. Norton.
Lane, C. B. 1860. Railway Communication in London and the
Thames Embankment. London: James Ridgway.
Lanne, Markku, and Matti Liski. 2003. “Trends and Breaks in PerCapita Carbon Dioxide Emissions, 1870–2028.” Working Paper
0302, Center for Energy and Environmental Policy Research,
Cambridge, MA.
Layke, Christian, and Stephen Adam. 2008. “Spatial Allocation
of Public Expenditures in Nigeria.” Background paper for the
WDR 2009.
Leamer, Edward E. 2007. “A Flat World, a Level Playing Field,
a Small World After All, or None of the Above? A Review of
Thomas L. Friedman’s The World Is Flat.” Journal of Economic
Literature 45 (1): 83–126.
Leamer, Edward E., and Michael Storper. 2001. “The Economic
Geography of the Internet Age.” Journal of International Business
Studies 32 (4): 641–65.
Lebergott, Stanley. 1964. Manpower in Economic Growth: The
American Record since 1800. New York: McGraw Hill.
Lederman, Daniel, William F. Maloney, and Luis Servén. 2005.
Lessons from NAFTA for Latin America and the Caribbean.
Washington, DC, and Palo Alto, CA: World Bank and Stanford
University Press.
Lee, Annabel. 2008. “A History of Korea’s Spatial Transformation
and Economic Growth.” Washington, DC.
Lei, Ding, and Kingsley E. Haynes. 2004. “The Role of Telecommunications Infrastructure in Regional Economic Growth of
China.” Paper presented at the Telecommunications Policy
Research Conference, Washington, DC.
Leigland, James, and Andrew Roberts. 2007. “The African Project
Preparation Gap.” Note 18.
Levinsohn, James, and Amil Petrin. 1999. “When Industries
Become More Productive, Do Firms?” NBER Working Paper
6893, National Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, MA.
Levinson, Marc. 2006. The Box: How the Shipping Container Made
the World Smaller and the World Economy Bigger. Princeton, NJ:
Princeton University Press.
Limão, Nuno, and Anthony J. Venables. 2001. “Infrastructure,
Geographical Disadvantage, Transport Costs, and Trade.” World
Bank Economic Review 15 (3): 451–79.
Linden, Greg, Kenneth L. Kraemer, and Jason Dedrick. 2007.
“Who Captures Value in a Global Innovation System? The

WDR09_21_References.indd 319

319

Case of the Apple’s iPod.” Personal Computing Industry Center, Irvine, CA.
Linn, F. Johannes, and David Tiomkin. 2006. “The New Impetus
toward Economic Integration between Europe and Asia.” Asia
Europe Journal 4 (1): 31–41.
Lipsey, Richard G., and Alice Nakamura, eds. 2006. Services Industries and the Knowledge-Based Economy. Calgary, Canada: University of Calgary Press.
Little, Peter D. 2007. “Unofficial Cross-Border Trade in Eastern
Africa.” Paper presented at the Staple Food Trade and Market
Policy Options for Promoting Development in Eastern and
Southern Africa, Rome.
Lösch, Auguste. 1940. The Economics of Location. New Haven, CT:
Yale University Press.
Lucas, Robert E. Jr. 1988. “On the Mechanics of Economic Development.” Journal of Monetary Economics 22 (1): 3–42.
———. 2004. “Life Earnings and Rural-Urban Migration.” Journal
of Political Economy 112 (S1): S29–S59.
———. 2007. “Trade and the Diffusion of the Industrial Revolution.” NBER Working Paper 13286, National Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, MA.
Lucas, Robert E. B. 1997. “Internal Migration in Developing Countries.” In Handbook of Population and Family Economics, ed.
Mark Rosenzweig and Oded Stark. Amsterdam: North-Holland.
———. 2003. “Migration and Lagging Regions.” Boston University, Boston. Processed.
———. 2006. “Migration and Economic Development in Africa:
A Review of Evidence.” Journal of African Economies 15 (2):
337–95.
Luo, Xubei. 2004. “The Role of Infrastructure Investment Location in China’s Western Development.” Policy Research Working
Paper 3345, World Bank, Washington, DC.
Lutz, Vera. 1962. Italy: A Study in Economic Development. London:
Oxford University Press.
Lynch, Sarah N., and Eugene Mulero. 2007. “Williamsburg’s Most
Recent Reinvention: The Makeover in Brooklyn.” The Cooperator. Nov., 2007.
Lysenko, A. J., and I. N. Semashko. 1968. “Geography of Malaria: A
Medico-Geographic Profile of an Ancient Disease [in Russian].”
In Medicinskaja Geografija, ed. A. W. Lebedew. Moscow: Russian
Academy of Sciences.
Mackay, C. J. 1999. “Housing Policy in South Africa: The Challenge
of Delivery.” Housing Studies 14 (3): 387–99.
MacMillan, Margaret. 2002. Paris 1919: Six Months That Changed
the World. New York: Random House.
Maddison, Angus. 2006. The World Economy. Paris: Organisation
for Economic Co-operation and Development.
———. 2008a. The World Economy: Volume 1: A Millennial Perspective. Paris: OECD.
———. 2008b. “World Population, GDP, and Per Capita GDP,
1–2003 AD.” University of Gröningen Growth and Development
Centre, Gröningen, Netherlands.
Malaysia Economic Planning Unit. 2008. Malaysia Achieving the
MDGs. Kuala Lumpur: Malaysia Economic Planning Unit,
Primer Minister’s Office.

10/10/08 10:08:06 AM

320

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Malinowski, Matthew. 2007. “Cold Snap Prompts Chile to Seek
Gas Deal with Old Foe Bolivia.” Christian Science Monitor,
August 8.
Margo, Robert A. 1988. “Schooling and the Great Migration.”
NBER Working Paper 2697, National Bureau of Economic
Research, Cambridge, MA.
———. 2000. Wages and Labor Markets in the United States, 1820–
1860. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
———. 2004. “The North-South Wage Gap, Before and After the
Civil War.” In Slavery in the Development of the Americas, ed.
David Eltis, Frank D. Lewis, and Kenneth L. Sokoloff. New York:
Cambridge University Press.
Markussen, T. Forthcoming. “Property Rights, Productivity, and
Common Property Resources: Insights from Rural Cambodia.”
World Development.
Marland, Gregg, Tom Boden, and Robert Andres. 2007. “National
CO2 Emissions from Fossil-Fuel Burning, Cement Manufacture, and Gas Flaring: 1751–2004.” Carbon Dioxide Information
Analysis Center, Oakridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, TN.
Marshall, Alfred. 1890. Principles of Economics. London: Macmillan.
Martin, Philippe. 2005. “The Geography of Inequalities in Europe.”
Swedish Economic Policy Review 12: 83–108.
Martin, Philippe, Thierry Mayer, and Mathias Thoenig. 2008.
“Civil Wars and International Trade.” Journal of the European
Economic Association 6 (2–3): 541–50.
Martin, Ronald L. 2005. “Centralized Versus Decentralized Financial Systems: Is There a Case for Local Capital Markets?” Paper
presented at the Cambridge-MIT Institute Conference on Venture Capital, Finance and Regional Development, Cambridge,
U.K., June 17.
Martinez-Galarraga, Julio. 2007. “New Estimates on Regional GDP
in Spain, 1860–1930.” Working Paper 177, Universitat de Barcelona Espai de Recerca en Economia, Barcelona.
Martínez-Zarzoso, Inmaculada, L. García-Menéndez, and C. Suárez-Burguet. 2003. “Impact of Transport Costs on International
Trade: The Case of Spanish Ceramic Exports.” Maritime Economics and Logistics 5 (2): 179–98.
Martínez-Zarzoso, Inmaculada, and Laura Marquez-Ramos. 2007.
“The Effect of Trade Facilitation on Sectoral Trade.” Working
Paper 167, Ibero-America Institute for Economic Research, Göttingen, Germany.
Martins, Joaquim Oliveira, Stefano Scarpetta, and Dirk Pilat. 1996.
“Mark-up Ratios in Manufacturing Industries: Estimates for 14
OECD Countries.” Working Paper 162, Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, Paris.
Massey, Douglas S. 1988. “International Migration and Economic
Development in Comparative Perspective.” Population and
Development Review 14 (3): 383–413.
———. 2003. “Patterns and Processes of International Migration
in the 21st Century.” Paper presented at the Conference on African Migration in Comparative Perspective, Johannesburg.
Maurel, Françoise, and Béatrice Sédillot. 1999. “A Measure of the
Geographic Concentration in French Manufacturing Industries.” Regional Science and Urban Economics 29 (5): 575–604.

WDR09_21_References.indd 320

Mayer, Thierry. 2008. “Market Potential and Development.” Background paper for the WDR 2009.
McCallum, John. 1995. “National Borders Matter: Canada-U.S.
Regional Trade Patterns.” American Economic Review 85 (3):
615–23.
McCann, Philip. 2001. Urban and Regional Economics. Oxford,
U.K.: Oxford University Press.
McCrae, Ian. 2006. “Uncertainties in Road Transport Emissions in
Developing Countries.” HM Treasury, London.
McInnis, R. Marvin. 1966. “Regional Income Differentials in Canada, 1911–1961.” Journal of Economic History 26 (4): 586–88.
McKenzie, David J. 2001. “The Impact of Capital Controls on
Growth Convergence.” Journal of Economic Development 26 (1):
1–25.
———. 2007. “Paper Walls Are Easier to Tear Down: Passport
Costs and Legal Barriers to Emigrations.” World Development 35
(11): 2026–39.
McKenzie, David J., and Hillel Rapoport. 2007. “Self-Selection
Patterns in Mexico-U.S. Migration: The Role of Migration
Networks.” Policy Research Working Paper 4118, World Bank,
Washington, DC.
Meade, James E. 1956. “The Theory of Customs Union.” American
Economic Review 46 (4): 724–26.
Melitz, J. Marc. 2003. “The Impact of Trade on Intra-industry
Reallocations and Aggregate Industry Productivity.” Econometrica 71 (6): 1695–725.
Mera, Koichi. 1973. “Regional Production Function and Social
Overhead Capital: An Analysis of the Japanese Case.” Regional
and Urban Economics 3 (2): 157–86.
Metzer, Jacob. 1974. “Railroad Development and Market Integration: The Case of Tsarist Russia.” Journal of Economic History 34
(3): 529–50.
Meybeck, Michel, Pamela Green, and Charles Vorosmarty. 2001. “A
New Typology for Mountains and Other Relief Classes.” Mountain Research and Development 21 (1): 34–45.
Meyer, Balthasar H. 1917. History of Transportation in the United
States before 1860. Washington, DC: Carnegie Institution of
Washington.
Miguel, Edward, Shanker Satyanath, and Ernest Sergenti. 2004.
“Economic Shocks and Civil Conflict: An Instrumental Variables Approach.” Journal of Political Economy 112 (4): 725–53.
Milanovic, Branko. 2005. Worlds Apart. Measuring International
and Global Inequality. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
Miles, Alice. 2007. “What’s That Whimpering from the Fields?”
London Times, July 17.
Mills, Edwin S., and James MacKinnon. 1973. “Notes on the New
Urban Economics.” Bell Journal of Economics and Management
Science 4(2):593–601.
Minot, Nicholas, Bob Baulch, and Michael Epprecht. 2003. Poverty and Inequality in Vietnam: Spatial Patterns and Geographic
Determinants. Washington, DC: International Food Policy
Research Institute and Inter-ministerial Poverty Mapping Task
Force.
Mints, A. A. 1974. Prognoznaya Hypoteza Razvitiya Narodnogo
Khozyastva Evropeyskoy Chasti SSSR [A Forecast Hypothesis of

10/10/08 10:08:06 AM

References

the Development of the European USSR Economy]. Moscow:
Resursy, Sreda, Rasselenie, Nauka.
Mitchell, Brian R. 1964. “The Coming of the Railway and the
United Kingdom Economic Growth.” Journal of Economic History 24 (3): 315–36.
Mohammed, Saif I., and Jeffrey G. Williamson. 2004. “Freight
Rates and Productivity Gains in British Tramp Shipping, 1869–
1950.” Explorations in Economic History 41 (2): 172–203.
Montenegro, Claudio E., and Maximilian L. Hirn. 2008. “A New
Disaggregated Set of Labor Market Indicators Using Standardized Household Surveys from Around the World.” Background
paper for the WDR 2009.
Moomaw, Ronald L. 1981. “Productivity and City Size: A Critique
of the Evidence.” Quarterly Journal of Economics 96 (4): 675–88.
———. 1983. “Is Population Scale a Worthless Surrogate for Business Agglomeration Economies?” Regional Science and Urban
Economics 13 (4): 525–45.
Moreno, Ramón, and Bharat Trehan. 1997. “Location and the
Growth of Nations.” Journal of Economic Growth 2 (4): 399–418.
Moretti, Enrico. 2004a. “Estimating the Social Return to Higher
Education: Evidence from Longitudinal and Repeated CrossSectional Data.” Journal of Econometrics 121 (1–2): 175–212.
———. 2004b. “Workers’ Education, Spillovers, and Productivity:
Evidence from Plant-Level Production Functions.” American
Economic Review 94 (3): 656–90.
Morrisson, Christian, and Fabrice Murtin. 2005. “The World Distribution of Human Capital, Life Expectancy and Income: A
Multi-dimensional Approach.” London School of Economics,
London.
Mukherjee, Andy. 2007. “India’s Answer to Shenzhen Needs Political Will.” Bloomberg.com, March 15.
Mumford, Lewis. 1963. The Highway and the City. New York: Harcourt Brace and World Bank.
Mutlu, Servet. 1991. “Regional Disparities, Industry and Government Policy in Japan.” Development and Change 22 (3): 547–86.
N’Dulu, Benno J. 2001. “From Vision to Reality of African Economic Integration: Priority Actions and the Institutional
Framework for the Way Forward.” World Bank, Washington,
DC.
N’Guessan, Koffi, and Bassirou Chitou. 2006. “ENSEA of Abidjan:
in the Heart of Statistical Training in Francophone Africa.” African Statistical Journal 2: 151–56.
Nabi, Ijaz, and Anjum Nasim. 2001. “Trading with the Enemy: A
Case for Liberalizing Pakistan-India Trade.” In Regionalism and
Globalization: Theory and Practice, ed. Sajal Lahiri. New York:
Routledge.
Naisbitt, John. 1995. The Global Paradox. New York: Avon Books.
Nakajima, Tomio. 1982. Public Investment: Theory and Practice.
Tokyo: Gyosei.
Nakamura, Ryohei. 1985. “Agglomeration Economies in Urban
Manufacturing Industries: A Case of Japanese Cities.” Journal of
Urban Economics 17 (1): 108–24.
Nam, Charles B., William J. Serow, and David F. Sly. 1990. International Handbook on Internal Migration. New York: Greenwood
Press.

WDR09_21_References.indd 321

321

Naqvi, Zareen F., and Philip Schuler. 2007. The Challenges and
Potential of Pakistan-India Trade. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Naudé, Wim A. 2007. “Geography and Development in Africa:
Overview and Implications for Regional Cooperation.” WIDER
Working Paper Series 2007/03, United Nations, Helsinki.
Naudé, Wim A., and W. F. Krugell. 2006. “Sub-national Growth
Rate Differentials in South Africa: An Econometric Analysis.”
Papers in Regional Science 85 (3): 443–57.
Naudé, Wim A., and Marianne Matthee. 2007. “The Significance
of Transport Costs in Africa.” United Nations University, Tokyo.
Processed.
Ndulu, Benno J., Lopamudra Chakraborty, Lebohang Lijane,
Vijaya Ramachandran, and Jerome Wolgin. 2007. Challenges of
African Growth: Opportunities, Constraints and Strategic Directions. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Negri, Mariano, and Guido Porto. 2007. “Burley Tobacco Clubs
in Malawi: Non-market Institutions for Export.” World Bank,
Washington, DC.
Negroponte, Nicholas. 1995. Being Digital. New York: Vintage
Books.
Nelson, Andrew. 2008. “Accessibility Model and Population Estimates.” Background paper for the WDR 2009.
Nesslein, Thomas S. 2003. “Markets versus Planning: An Assessment of the Swedish Housing Model in the Post-War Period.”
Urban Studies 40 (7): 1259–82.
Neumayer, Eric. 2006. “Unequal Access to Foreign Spaces: How
States Use Visa Restrictions to Regulate Mobility in a Globalised
World.” Paper presented at the Annual Meeting of the International Studies Association, San Diego, CA.
Neuwirth, Robert. 2007. “Security of Tenure in Istanbul: The Triumph of the ‘Self-Service’ City.” United Nations Habitat. Case
study prepared for Enhancing Urban Safety and Security, Global
Report on Human Settlements 2007.
Nigeria National Bureau of Statistics. 2004. National Nigeria Living Standard Survey (NLSS). Abuja: Nigeria National Bureau of
Statistics.
———. 2006. Poverty Profile for Nigeria. Abuja: National Bureau
of Statistics, Federal Republic of Nigeria.
Nikomborirak, Deunden. 2007. “Liberalization of Air Transport
and Competition Concerns in ASEAN.” In Market Access, Trade
in Transport Services and Trade Facilitation, ed. OECD/ECMT.
Paris: Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.
Nordas, Hildegunn Kyvik, Enrico Pinali, and Massimo Geloso
Grosso. 2006. “Logistics and Time as a Trade Barrier.” Trade Policy Working Paper 35, Organisation for Economic Co-operation
and Development, Paris.
Nordhaus, William D. 2006. “Geography and Macroeconomics:
New Data and New Findings.” Proceedings of the National Academy of Science 103 (10): 3510–17.
Nordhaus, William D., and Joseph Boyer. 2000. Warming the
World: Economic Models of Global Warming. Cambridge, MA:
MIT Press.
North, Douglass C. 1971. “Institutional Change and Economic
Growth.” Journal of Economic History 31 (1): 118–25.

10/10/08 10:08:06 AM

322

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

O’Gorman, Marvin. 1939a. “Square Deals for London Traffic: A
Study of London’s Traffic Problem with Suggested Solutions.
Part 1.” Highways and Bridges, March 29.
———. 1939b. “Square Deals for London Traffic: A Study of London’s Traffic Problem with Suggested Solutions. Part 2.” Highways and Bridges, April 5.
O’Rourke, Kevin H., and Jeffrey Williamson. 1994. “Late Nineteenth-Century Anglo-American Factor-Price Convergence:
Were Heckscher and Ohlin Right?” Journal of Economic History
54 (4): 892–916.
Obstfeld, Maurice, Jay C. Shambaugh, and Alan M. Taylor. 2004.
“Monetary Sovereignty, Exchange Rates, and Capital Controls:
The Trilemma in the Interwar Period.” NBER Working Paper
10393, National Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, MA.
Obstfeld, Maurice, and Alan M. Taylor. 2002. “Globalization and
Capital Markets.” NBER Working Paper 8846, National Bureau
of Economic Research, Cambridge, MA.
Offer, A. 1981. Property and Politics, 1870–1914. Cambridge, U.K.:
Cambridge University Press.
Office of the Deputy Prime Minister. 2003. Cities, Regions, and
Competitiveness. London: Office of the Deputy Prime Minister.
Oh, Jinhwan. 2008. “Korea: A Case Study of 1D-2D-3D Areas.”
Background note for the WDR 2009.
———. 2008. “Spatially Blind and Connective Policies in a 1D
Region: The Case of Eumseong County in South Korea.” Background note for the WDR 2009.
Ohmae, Kenichi. 1990. The Borderless World: Power and Strategies
in the Interlinked Economy. New York: Harper Business.
Okuma, Ichiro, ed. 1980. Readings in Public Finance. Tokyo: Toyo
Kenzai Shinposya.
Openshaw, Stan, and Paul Taylor. 1979. “A Million or So Correlation Coefficients: Three Experiments on the Modifiable Areal
Unit Problem.” In Statistical Applications in the Spatial Sciences,
ed. Neil Wrigley. London: Pion.
Oppenheimer, Andrés. 2008. “Latin America Is Lagging. Someone
Tells Its Leaders.” Washington Post, January 13.
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
(OECD). 2003. Place-Based Policies for Rural Development: The
Micro-Regions Strategy, Mexico (Case Study). Background paper
for the OECD’s Horizontal Review of Place-Based Policies for
Development, Paris.
———. 2006. Territorial Reviews: Competitive Cities in the Global
Economy. Paris: Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development.
———. 2007. OECD: Regions at a Glance. Paris: Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development.
Orwell, George. 1937. The Road to Wigan Pier. London: Victor
Gollancz.
Overseas Development Institute. 2006. What’s Next in International Development? London: Overseas Development Institute.
Owen, Nicholas. 1983. Economies of Scale, Competitiveness, and
Trade Patterns within the European Community. Oxford, U.K.:
Clarendon Press.
Özden, Caglar, and Maurice Schiff. 2007. International Migration,
Economic Development and Policy. Washington, DC: World Bank.

WDR09_21_References.indd 322

Paci, Pierella, Erwin R. Tiongson, Mateusz Walewski, Jacek Liwinski, and Maria M. Stoilkova. 2007. “Internal Labor Mobility in
Central Europe and the Baltic Region.” Policy Research Working
Paper 105, World Bank, Washington, DC.
Packard, Truman. 1997. “Adjustment, Migration and Economic
Informality in Latin America.” M.S. Economic for Development
thesis, Queen Elizabeth House, University of Oxford.
Paillacar, Rodrigo. 2007. “Market Potential and Worker Heterogeneity as Determinants of Brazilian Wages.” Université de Paris I
Panthéon-Sorbonne. Paris.
Pakenham, Thomas. 1992. The Scramble for Africa. New York:
Harper Collins.
Palacin, Jose, and Robert C. Shelburne. 2005. “The Private Housing
Market in Eastern Europe and the CIS.” Working Paper 2005-5,
United Nations Commission for Europe, Geneva.
Pallage, Stéphane, and Michel A. Robe. 2003. “On the Welfare Cost
of Economic Fluctuation in Developing Countries.” International Economic Review 44 (2): 677–98.
Park, Sam Ock. Forthcoming. “A History of Korea’s Spatial Transformation and Economic Growth.” In Reshaping Economic
Geography in East Asia, ed. Yukon Huang and Alessandro Magnoli Bocchi. Washington, DC: World Bank, EAP Companion
Volume to the WDR 2009.
Parsons, Christopher R., Ronald Skeldon, Terrie L. Walmsley, and
L. Alan Winters. 2007. “Quantifying International Migration: A
Database of Bilateral Migrant Stocks.” In International Migration, Economic Development and Policy, ed. Caglar Özden and
Maurice Schiff. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Paul, Catherine J. Morrison, and Donald S. Siegel. 1999. “Scale
Economies and Industry Agglomeration Externalities: A
Dynamic Cost Function Approach.” American Economic Review
89 (1): 272–90.
Pedersen, P. O. 1990. “The Role of Small Rural Towns in Development.” In Small Town Africa, Seminar Proceedings No. 23, ed.
Jonathan Baker. Uppsalla: Scandinavian Institute of African
Studies.
Peng, Zhong-Ren, Yi Zhu, and Shunfeng Song. 2008. “Mobility of
the Chinese Urban Poor: A Case Study of Hefei City.” Chinese
Economy 41 (1): 36–57.
Phillips, Truman P., Daphne S. Taylor, Lateef Sanni, and Malachy
O. Akoroda. 2004. The Global Cassava Development Strategy. Rome: Food and Agriculture Organization of the United
Nations.
Policy Research Institute for Land, Infrastructure Transport, and
Tourism Research. 2001. Discussion on Equity and Social Capital
Improvement. Tokyo: Policy Research Institute for Land, Infrastructure, Transport, and Tourism.
Poncet, Sandra. 2005. “A Fragmented China: Measures and Determinants of Chinese Domestic Market Integration.” Review of
International Economics 13 (3): 409–30.
———. 2006. “Provincial Migration Dynamics in China: Borders,
Costs, and Economic Motivations.” Regional Science and Urban
Economics 36 (3): 385–98.
Prateen, Cliff. 1988. “Survey of the Economies of Scale.” Economic Papers 67, Commission of the European Communities,
Brussels.

10/10/08 10:08:07 AM

References

PricewaterhouseCoopers. 2007. Which Are the Largest City Economies in the World and How Might This Change by 2020? London
PricewaterhouseCoopers: UK Economic Outlook.
Pritchett, Lant. 2006. Let Their People Come: Breaking the Gridlock
on Global Labor Mobility. Washington, DC: Center for Global
Development.
Public Administration Research and Consultation Centre. 2004.
Egypt Millennium Development Goals: Second Country Report.
Cairo: United Nations and Egypt Ministry of Planning.
Pucher, John, Nisha Korattyswaropam, Neha Mittal, and Neenu
Ittyerah. 2005. “Urban Transport Crisis in India.” Transport Policy 12 (3): 185–98.
Puga, Diego. 2002. “European Regional Policies in Light of Recent
Location Theories.” Journal of Economic Geography 2 (4): 373–
406.
Puga, Diego, and Anthony J. Venables. 1999. “Agglomeration and
Economic Development: Import Substitution vs. Trade Liberalization.” Economic Journal 109 (455): 292–311.
Quah, Danny T. 1996. “Twin Peaks: Growth and Convergence in
Models of Distribution Dynamics.” Economic Journal 106 (437):
1045–55.
Quinn, Dennis P., and A. María Toyoda. 2006. “Does Capital
Account Liberalization Lead to Growth?” Georgetown University, Washington, DC.
Rajan, Raghuram, and Shang-Jin Wei. 2004. “The Non-Threat
That Is Outsourcing.” Business Times (Singapore).
Ratha, Dilip, and William Shaw. 2007. “South-South Migration
and Remittances.” Working Paper 102, World Bank, Washington,
DC.
Ratha, Dilip, and Zhimei Xu. 2008. Migration and Remittances
Factbook 2008. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Rauch, James E. 1993. “Productivity Gains from Geographic Concentration of Human Capital: Evidence from the Cities.” Journal
of Urban Economics 34 (3): 380–400.
———. 1999. “Networks versus Markets in International Trade.”
Journal of International Economics 48 (1): 7–35.
Ravallion, Martin. 2007. “Inequality Is Bad for the Poor.” In
Inequality and Poverty Re-Examined, ed. Steven Jenkins and
John Micklewright. New York: Oxford University Press.
Ravallion, Martin, and Dominique van de Walle. 2006a. “Does Rising Landlessness Signal Success or Failure for Vietnam’s Agricultural Transition?” Policy Research Working Paper 3871, World
Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2006b. “Land Reallocation in an Agrarian Transition.”
Economic Journal 116 (514): 924–42.
Redding, Stephen J., and Anthony J. Venables. 2004. “Economic
Geography and International Inequality.” Journal of International Economics 62 (1): 53–82.
Rephann, Terance, and Andrew Isserman. 1994. “New Highways
as Economic Development Tools: An Evaluation Using QuasiExperimental Matching Methods.” Regional Science and Urban
Economics 24 (6): 723–51.
Reporters without Borders for Press Freedom. 2007. Freedom of the
Press Worldwide in 2007. Paris: Reporters without Borders for
Press Freedom.

WDR09_21_References.indd 323

323

Revenue Mobilization Allocation and Fiscal Commission. 2003.
States and Local Governments 2003 Revenue Allocation Indices.
Abuja, Nigeria: Revenue Mobilization Allocation and Fiscal
Commission.
Richter, K., R. van der Weide, and Phonesaly Souksavath. 2005.
Lao PDR Poverty Trends 1992/93–2002/03. Washington, DC:
National Statistics Centre and World Bank.
Roberts, Leslie, and Martin Enserink. 2007. “María: Did They
Really Say ... Eradication?” Science 318 (5856): 1544–45.
Roberts, Mark. 2004. “The Growth Performances of the GB Counties: Some New Empirical Evidence for 1977–1993.” Regional
Studies 38 (2): 149–65.
Roberts, Mark, and Uwe Deichmann. 2008. “Regional Spillover
Estimation.” Background paper for the WDR 2009.
Robles, Marcos. 2003. Estimación de Indicadores de pobreza y Desigualdad a Nivel Municipal en Honduras. Tegucigalpa: BID-MECOVI and Instituto Nacional de Estadísticas de Honduras.
Rodríguez, Francisco, and Dani Rodrik. 2000. “Trade Policy and
Economic Growth: A Skeptic’s Guide to the Cross-National Evidence.” In NBER Macroeconomics Annual 2000, ed. Ben S. Bernanke and Kenneth Rogoff. Cambridge, MA: National Bureau
of Economic Research.
Rodríguez, Jorge. 2004. “Migración Interna en América Latina y el
Caribe: Estudio Regional del Período 1980–2000.” Serie Población y Desarrollo 50, ECLAC, Santiago.
Rodríguez-Pose, Andrés, and Ugo Fratesi. 2004. “Between Development and Social Policies: The Impact of European Structural
Funds in Objective 1 Regions.” Regional Studies 38 (1): 97–113.
Rodrik, Dani, Arvind Subramanian, and Francesco Trebbi. 2004.
“Institutions Rule: The Primacy of Institutions over Geography
and Integration in Economic Development.” Journal of Economic Growth 9 (2): 131–65.
Roeger, Werner. 1995. “Can Imperfect Competition Explain the
Difference between Primal and Dual Productivity Measures?
Estimates for U.S. Manufacturing.” Journal of Political Economy
103 (2): 316–30.
Rohwedder, Cecilie, and Keith Johnson. 2008. “Pace-Setting Zara
Seeks More Speed to Fight Its Rising Cheap-Chic Rivals.” Wall
Street Journal, February 20.
Rolfes, L. Jr. 2002. “Making the Legal Basis for Private Land Rights
Operational and Effective.” Paper presented at the World Bank
Regional Land Policy Workshop, Budapest, April 6.
Romer, Paul M. 1986. “Increasing Returns in Long-Run Growth.”
Journal of Political Economy 94 (5): 1002–37.
———. 1990. “Endogenous Technological Change.” Journal of
Political Economy 98(5):71–102.
———. 1994. “The Origins of Endogenous Growth.” Journal of
Economic Perspectives 8 (1): 3–22.
Rose, Andrew K. 2005. “Cities and Countries.” Discussion Paper
5235, Centre for Economic Policy Research, London.
Rosenbloom, Joshua L., and William A. Sundstrom. 2003. “The
Decline and Rise of Interstate Migration in the United States:
Evidence from the IPUMS, 1850–1990.” NBER Working
Paper 9857, National Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, MA.

10/10/08 10:08:07 AM

324

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Rosenthal, Stuart S., and William C. Strange. 2001. “The Determinants of Agglomeration.” Journal of Urban Economics 50 (2):
191–229.
———. 2003. “Geography, Industrial Organization, and Agglomeration.” Review of Economics and Statistics 85 (2): 377–93.
———. 2004. “Evidence on the Nature and Sources of Agglomeration Economies.” In Handbook of Regional and Urban Economics,
vol. IV, ed. J. Vernon Henderson and Jacque Thisse. Amsterdam:
North-Holland.
Rossi-Hansberg, Esteban, and Mark L. J. Wright. 2007. “Urban
Structure and Growth.” Review of Economic Studies 74(2):597–
624.
Rostow, Walt Whitman. 1960. The Stages of Economic Growth.
Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge University Press.
Roy, Tirthankar. 2002. “Economic History and Modern India:
Redefining the Link.” Journal of Economic Perspectives 16 (3):
109–30.
Ruster, Jeff, and Ivo Imperato. 2003. Slum Upgrading and Participation: Lessons from Latin America. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Sachs, Jeffrey D., and Pia Malaney. 2002. “The Economic and
Social Burden of Malaria.” Nature 415 (6872): 680–5.
Sahn, David E., and David C. Stifel. 2003. “Urban-Rural Inequality
in Living Standards in Africa.” Journal of African Economies 12
(4): 564–97.
Sakamaki, Tetsuro. 2006. “Regional Disparities and National Land
Development Policy in East Asian Countries.” Journal of Japan
Bank for International Cooperation Institute 29: 84–122.
Sánchez, Ricardo J., Jan Hoffmann, Alejandro Micco, Georgina V.
Pizzolitto, Martín Sgut, and Gordon Wilmsmeier. 2003. “Port
Efficiency and International Trade: Port Efficiency as a Determinant of Maritime Transport Costs.” Maritime Economics and
Logistics 5 (2): 199–218.
Sandler, Todd. 2002. “Demand and Institutions for Regional Public Goods.” In Regional Public Goods: From Theory to Practice,
ed. Antoni Estevadeordal, Brian Frantz, and Tam R. Nguyen.
Washington, DC: Inter-American Development Bank and Asian
Development Bank.
Sandler, Todd, and Daniel M. Arce. 2002. “A Conceptual Framework for Understanding Global and Transnational Public Goods
for Health.” Fiscal Studies 23 (2): 195–222.
Santos, Georgina, and Blake Shaffer. 2004. “Preliminary Results of
the London Congestion Charging Scheme.” Public Work Management and Policy 9 (2): 164–81.
Sassen, Saskia. 1991. The Global City: New York, London, Tokyo.
Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
Satterthwaite, David. 2007. “The Transition to a Predominantly
Urban World and Its Underpinnings.” Paper presented at the
UNU-WIDER International Workshop on Beyond the Tipping
Point: Development in an Urban World, London, October 19.
———. 2008. “Expanding the Supply and Reducing the Cost of
Land for Housing in Urban Areas in Low and Middle Income
Nations.” Background note for the WDR 2009.
Satterthwaite, David, Saleemul Hug, Mark Pelling, Hannah Reid,
and Patricia Romero-Lankao. 2007. Adapting to Climate Change
in Urban Areas: The Possibilities and Constraints in Low and

WDR09_21_References.indd 324

Middle Income Nations. London: International Institute for
Environment and Development.
Schacter, Jason P. 2004. “Geographical Mobility: 2002 to 2003.”
Current Population Report, U.S. Census Bureau, Washington,
DC. March.
Scherer, Frederic M. 1980. Industrial Market Structure and Economic Performance. Boston: Houghton Mifflin.
Schiff, Maurice, and Caglar Özden. 2006. International Migration,
Remittances and the Brain Drain. Washington, DC: World Bank
and Palgrave Macmillan.
Schiff, Maurice, and Yanling Wang. 2003. “Regional Integration
and Technology Diffusion: The Case of North American Free
Trade Agreement.” Policy Research Working Paper 3132, World
Bank, Washington, DC.
Schiff, Maurice, and L. Alain Winters. 2002. “Regional Cooperation and the Role of International Organizations and Regional
Integration.” Policy Research Working Paper 2872, World Bank,
Washington, DC.
———. 2003. Regional Integration and Development. New York:
Oxford University Press.
Schmertmann, Carl P. 1992. “Estimation of Historical Migration
Rates from a Single Census: Interregional Migration in Brazil,
1900–1980.” Population Studies 46 (1): 103–20.
Schneider, A., M. A. Friedl, and D. Potere. Forthcoming. “A New
Map of Global Urban Extent from MODIS Data.” Geophysical
Research Letters.
Scholz, Stephan. 2006. “The POETICS of Industrial Carbon Dioxide Emissions in Japan: An Urban and Institutional Extension
of the IPAT Identity.” Carbon Balance and Management 1 (11):
1–10.
Schwenning, Gustav. 1927. “An Attack on Shanghai Slums.” Social
Forces 6 (1): 125–31.
Scott, Ian. 1982. Urban and Spatial Development in Mexico. Baltimore, MD: Johns Hopkins University.
Seeman, Helene Zuckerman, and Alanna Siegfried. 1978. “The
Evolution of SoHo.” In Helene Zuckerman Seeman and Alanna
Siegfried, (eds.), SoHo: A Guide. New York, NY: Neal-Schuman
Publishers, Inc.
Segal, David. 1976. “Are There Returns to Scale in City Size?”
Review of Economics and Statistics 58 (3): 339–50.
Selod, Harris. 2007. “Land Policies and Urban Segregation.” World
Bank, Washington, DC.
Shah, Anwar, and Chunli Shen. 2006. “The Reform of the Intergovernmental Transfer System to Achieve a Harmonious Society and
a Level Playing Field for Regional Development in China.” Policy
Research Working Paper 4100, World Bank, Washington, DC.
Shatz, Howard J., and Anthony J. Venables. 2005. “The Geography
of International Investment.” In Oxford Handbook of Economic
Geography, ed. Gordon L. Clark, Meric S. Gertler, and Maryann
P. Feldman. Oxford, U.K.: Oxford University Press.
Shaw, Dan. 2007. “Meatpacking District: What a Difference 38
Years Make.” The New York Times, October 14.
Shefer, Daniel. 1973. “Localization Economies in SMSA’s: A Production Function Analysis.” Journal of Regional Science 13 (1):
55–64.

10/10/08 10:08:07 AM

References

Shepherd, Ben, and John S. Wilson. 2006. “Road Infrastructure in
Europe and Central Asia: Does Network Quality Affects Trade?”
Policy Research Working Paper 4104, World Bank, Washington,
DC.
Showers, Victor. 1979. World Facts and Figures. Chichester, U.K.:
John Wiley and Sons.
Shukla, Vibhooti, and Oded Stark. 1986. “Urban External Economies and Optimal Migration.” In Migration, Human Capital,
and Development, ed. Oded Stark. Greenwich, CT: JAI Press.
Sicsic, Pierre. 1992. “City-Farm Wage Gaps in Late NineteenthCentury France.” Journal of Economic History 52 (3): 675–95.
Siegel, Fred. 1997. The Future Once Happened Here: New York,
D.C., L.A., and the Fate of America’s Big Cities. Florence, MA:
Free Press.
Simmons, Beth A. 2005. “Rules over Real Estate: Trade, Territorial
Conflict, and International Borders as Institutions.” Journal of
Conflict Resolution 49 (6): 823–48.
Sinai, Todd, and Joel Waldfogel. 2004. “Geography and the Internet: Is the Internet a Substitute or Complement for Cities?”
Journal of Urban Economics 56 (1): 1–24.
Sinn, Hans-Werner, and Frank Westermann. 2001. “Two Mezzogiornos.” NBER Working Paper 8125, National Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, MA.
Skeldon, Ronald. 1986. “On Migration Patterns in India during the
1970s.” Population and Development Review 12 (4): 759–79.
Slaughter, Mattew J. 2001. “Trade Liberalization and Per Capita
Income Convergence: A Difference-in-Differences Analysis.”
Journal of International Economics 55 (1): 203–28.
Smith, Adam. 1976 [1776]. An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes
of the Wealth of Nations. Chicago: University of Chicago Press
(Cannan’s edition of the Wealth of Nations was originally published in 1904 by Methuen & Co. Ltd. First Edition in 1776).
Smith, Donald F. Jr., and Richard Florida. 1994. “Agglomeration
and Industrial Location: An Econometric Analysis of JapaneseAffiliated Manufacturing Establishments in Automotive-Related
Industries.” Journal of Urban Economics 36 (1): 23–41.
Smith, P. J. 1989. “The Rehousing/Relocation Issue in an Early
Slum Clearance Scheme: Edinburgh 1865–1885.” Urban Studies
26 (1): 100–14.
Snow, Robert W., Marlies Craig, Uwe Deichmann, and Karen
Marsh. 1999. “Estimating Mortality, Morbidity, and Disability
Due to Malaria among Africa’s Non-Pregnant Population.” Bulletin of the World Health Organization 77 (8): 624–40.
Sobel, Robert. 2000. How a Generation of Americans Created the
World’s Most Prosperous Society. New York: St. Martin’s Press.
Söderbaum, Fredrik. 2001. “Institutional Aspects of the Maputo
Development Corridor.” Development Policy Research Unit
Working Paper 9675, University of Cape Town, Cape Town,
South Africa.
Sohn, Jeongmok. 2003. Seoul Dosi Hoek Iyagi [Seoul: The Story of
Urban Planning]. Seoul: Hanul.
Sokoloff, Kenneth L., and Stanley L. Engerman. 2000a. “History
Lessons: Institutions, Factor Endowments, and Paths of Development in the New World.” Journal of Economic Perspectives 14
(3): 217–32.

WDR09_21_References.indd 325

325

———. 2000b. “Institutions, Factor Endowments, and Paths of
Development in the New World.” Journal of Economic Perspectives 14 (3): 217–32.
Solow, Robert M. 1956. “A Contribution to the Theory of Economic Growth.” Quarterly Journal of Economics 70 (1): 65–94.
Soltow, Lee. 1989. “The Rich and the Destitute in Sweden, 1805–
1855: A Test of Tocqueville’s Inequality Hypotheses.” Economic
History Review 42 (1): 43–63.
Son, Dang Kim. Forthcoming. “Rural Development and Issues in
Vietnam: Spatial Disparities and Some Recommendations.” In
Reshaping Economic Geography in East Asia, ed. Yukon Huang
and Alessandro Magnoli Bocchi. Washington, DC: World Bank,
EAP Companion Volume to the WDR 2009.
Sonobe, Tetsushi, and Keijiro Otsuka. 2006. Cluster-Based Industrial Development: An East Asian Model. Hampshire, U.K.: Palgrave Macmillan.
Sophal, Chan, Tep Saravi, and Sarthi Acharya. 2001. “Land Tenure
in Cambodia: A Data Update.” Working Paper 19, Development
Resource Institute, Phnom Penh.
Soto, Raimundo, and Arístides Torche. 2004. “Spatial Inequality, Migration, and Economic Growth in Chile.” Cuadernos de
Economía 41 (124): 401–24.
Sovannarith, So, Real Sopheap, Uch Utey, Sy Rathmony, Brett Ballard, and Sarthi Acharya. 2001. “Social Assessment of Land in
Cambodia: A Field Study.” Prepared for the Ministry of Land
Management, Urban Planning, and Construction, Royal Government of Cambodia, Cambodia Development Resource Institute, Phnom Penh.
SPARTECA. 1996. Rules of Origin Requirements of the South Pacific
Trade and Economic Co-operation Agreement. Suva: South Pacific
Regional Trade and Economic Co-operation Agreement, Forum
Secretariat.
Spence, A. Michael. 1976. “Product Selection, Fixed Costs, and
Monopolistic Competition.” Review of Economic Studies
43(2):217–35.
Spolaore, Enrico, and Romain Wacziarg. 2005. “Borders and
Growth.” Journal of Economic Growth 10 (4): 331–86.
Squire, Lyn. 1981. Employment Policy in Developing Countries.
Oxford, U.K.: Oxford University Press.
Sri Lanka National Council for Economic Development, and
UNDP. 2005. Millennium Development Goals Country Report
2005: Sri Lanka. Colombo: Sri Lanka National Council for Economic Development.
Stewart, Dona J. 1996. “Cities in the Desert: The Egyptian New
Town-Program.” Annals of the Association of American Geographers 86 (3): 459–80.
Stewart, Frances. 2008. “Horizontal Inequalities: A Neglected
Dimension of Development.” Queen Elizabeth House Working
Paper 81, Oxford University, Oxford, U.K.
Stinnett, Douglas M., Jaroslav Tir, Philip Schafer, Paul F. Diehl, and
Charles Gochman. 2002. “The Correlates of War Project Direct
Contiguity Data, Version 3.” Conflict Management and Peace Science 19 (2): 58–66.
Stockel, Sigrid. 2002. “Infant Mortality and Concepts of Hygiene:
Strategies and Consequences in the Kaiserreich and the Weimar

10/10/08 10:08:08 AM

326

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Republic—The Example of Berlin.” History of the Family 7 (4):
601–16.
Storper, Michael, and Anthony J. Venables. 2007. “Buzz: Faceto-Face Contact and the Urban Economy.” In Clusters, Networks and Innovation, ed. Stefano Breschi and Franco Malerba.
Oxford, U.K.: Oxford University Press.
Sveikauskas, Leo A. 1975. “The Productivity of Cities.” Quarterly
Journal of Economics 89 (3): 393–413.
Sveikauskas, Leo A., John Gowdy, and Michael Funk. 1988. “Urban
Productivity: City Size or Industry Size.” Journal of Regional Science 28 (2): 185–202.
Sveikauskas, Leo A., Peter M. Townroe, and Eric R. Hansen. 1985.
“Intraregional Productivity Difference in Sao Paulo State Manufacturing Plants.” Weltwirtschaftliches Archiv 121(4):722–40.
Swan, Trevor W. 1956. “Economic Growth and Capital Accumulation.” Economic Record 32 (2): 334–61.
Swedish Council for Building Research. 1990. Housing Research
and Design in Sweden. Stockholm: Swedish Council for Building
Research.
Tabuchi, Takatoshi. 1988. “Interregional Income Differentials and
Migration: Their Interrelationships.” Regional Studies 22 (1): 1–10.
Taira, Koji. 1969. “Urban Poverty, Ragpickers, and the ‘Ants’ Villa’ in
Tokyo.” Economic Development and Cultural Change 17 (2): 155–77.
Taylor, Alan M. 1996. “International Capital Mobility in History:
Purchasing-Power Parity in the Long Run.” NBER Working Paper
5742, National Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, MA.
Taylor, Alan M., and Jeffrey Williamson. 2006. “Convergence in the
Age of Mass Migration.” European Review of Economic History 1
(1): 27–63.
Thanh, Hoang Xuan, Dang Nguyen Anh, and Cecilia Tacoli. 2005.
“Livelihood Diversification and Rural-Urban Linkages in Vietnam’s Red River Delta.” IFPRI Working Paper 193, International
Food Policy Research Institute, Washington, DC.
Tiffen, Mary. 2003. “Transitions in Sub-Saharan Africa: Agriculture, Urbanization, and Income Growth.” World Development 31
(8): 1343–66.
Tilly, Richard H. 1990. Vom Zollverein zum Industriestaat: Die
wirtschaftlich-soziale Entwicklung Deutschlands 1834 bis 1914.
Munich, Germany: Deutscher Taschenbuch Verlag.
Timmer, Ashley S., and Jeffrey G. Williamson. 1998. “Immigration Policy prior to the 1930s: Labor Markets, Policy Interactions, and Globalization Backlash.” Population and Development
Review 24 (4): 739–71.
Timmins, Christopher. 2005. “Estimable Equilibrium Models of
Locational Sorting and Their Role in Development Economics.”
Journal of Economic Geography 5 (1): 83–100.
Tinbergen, J. 1952. On the Theory of Economic Policy. Amsterdam:
North-Holland.
Tobler, W. R. 1970. “A Computer Movie Simulating Urban Growth
in the Detroit Region.” Economic Geography 46 (Supplement):
234–40.
Todaro, Michael P. 1969. “A Model of Labor Migration and Urban
Unemployment in Less Developed Countries.” American Economic Review 59 (1): 138–48.
Toffler, Alvin. 1980. The Third Wave. New York: Bantam Books.

WDR09_21_References.indd 326

Tol, Richard S. J. 2005. “The Marginal Damage Costs of Carbon
Dioxide Emissions: An Assessment of the Uncertainties.” Energy
Policy 33 (16): 2064–74.
Tolofari, Sonny R. 1986. Open Registry Shipping: A Comparative
Study of Costs Freight Rates. New York: Routledge.
Trackman, B., W. Fisher, and L. Salas. 1999. The Reform of Property
Registration Systems in Costa Rica: A Status Report. Cambridge,
MA: Law School Harvard University.
Tschirley, David L., Jan J. Nijhoff, Pedro Arlindo, Billy Mwinga,
Michael T. Weber, and Thomas S. Jayne. 2006. “Anticipating and
Responding to Drought Emergencies in Southern Africa: Lessons from the 2002–2003 Experience.” International Development Working Paper 89, East Lansing, MI.
Turner, Michael. 1986. “English Open Fields and Enclosures:
Retardation or Productivity Improvements.” Journal of Economic
History 46 (3): 669–92.
Uchida, Hirotsugu, and Andrew Nelson. 2008. “”Agglomeration
Index: Towards a New Measure of Urban Concentration.” Background paper for the WDR 2009.
United Nations. 1949. Demographic Yearbook 1948. New York:
United Nations.
———. 1952. Demographic Yearbook 1952. New York: United
Nations.
———. 1969. Growth of the World’s Urban and Rural Population,
1920–2000. New York: United Nations, Population Division.
———. 1970. “Unitization of Cargo.” Paper presented at the
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development,
Geneva.
———. 1997. China Human Development Report 1997: Human
Development and Poverty Reduction. New York: United Nations
Development Program.
———. 2001. “Istanbul+5: Reviewing and Appraising Progress Five
Years after Habitat II in June 2001.” United Nations, New York.
———. 2004a. Assessing Regional Integration in Africa. Addis
Ababa: United Nations Economic Commission for Africa.
———. 2004b. State of the World’s Cities Report 2004/2005. Nairobi: United Nations.
———. 2005a. Bringing Down Barriers: Regional Cooperation for
Human Development and Human Security. Bratislava: United
Nations Development Programme.
———. 2005b. China Human Development Report 2005: Development with Equity. New York: United Nations Development
Program.
———. 2006a. State of the Worlds Cities 2006/7: The Millennium
Development Goals and Urban Sustainability: 30 Years of Shaping
the Habitat Agenda (UN Habitat). Nairobi: UN-Habitat.
———. 2006b. The 2004 Vietnam Migration Survey: The Quality of
Life of Migrants in Vietnam. Hanoi: United Nations Population
Fund.
———. 2006c. “World Urbanization Prospects: The 2005 Revision.” United Nations, Department of Economic and Social
Affairs, Population Division, New York.
———. 2007. “Trade and Development Report 2007: Regional
Cooperation for Development.” Paper presented at the United
Nations Conference on Trade and Development, New York.

10/10/08 10:08:08 AM

References

United Nations and African Union. 2006. Assessing Regional Integration in Africa II: Rationalizing Regional Economic Communities. Addis Ababa: United Nations Commission for Africa and
African Union.
U.S. Bureau of Transport Statistics. 2003. America on the Go: U.S.
Holiday Travel. Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Transportation, Research, and Innovative Technology Administration.
U.S. Census Bureau. 2002. Demographic Trends in the 20th Century.
Census 2000 Special Reports. Washington, DC: U.S. Census Bureau.
Uvalic, Milica. 1993. “The Disintegration of Yugoslavia: Its Costs
and Benefits.” Post-Communist Economies 5 (3): 273–93.
Van der Linde, Claas. 2003. “The Demography of Clusters: Findings from the Cluster Meta-Study.” In Innovation Clusters and
Interregional Competition, ed. Johannes Brocker, Dirk Dohse,
and Rudiger Soltwedel. Berlin: Springer.
Vance, Colin, and Ralf Hedel. 2006. “On the Link between Urban
Form and Automobile Use: Evidence from German Survey
Data.” Working Paper 0048, Rheinisch-Westfälisches Institut für
Wirtschaftsforschung, Essen, Germany.
Vargas-Hidalgo, Rafael. 1979. “The Crisis for the Andean Pact: Lessons for Integration among Developing Countries.” Journal of
Common Market Studies 17 (3): 213–26.
Venables, Anthony J. 2001. “Geography and International Inequalities: the Impact of New Technologies.” Journal of Industry, Competition and Trade 1 (2): 135–59.
———. 2003. “Winners and Losers from Regional Integration
Agreements.” Economic Journal 113 (490): 747–61.
———. 2006. “Shifts in Economic Geography and Their Causes.”
Economic Review 2006 (Q IV): 61–85.
Venables, Anthony J., and Ravi Kanbur. 2005. Spatial Inequality
and Development, Overview of the UNU-WIDER Project. New
York: Oxford University Press.
Victoria Transport Policy Institute. 2007. Online TDM Encyclopedia. Victoria, Canada: Victoria Transport Policy Institute.
Vidler, Cam. 2008. “Turkey: A Case Study of 1D-2D-3D Areas.”
Background note for the WDR 2009.
Vigdor, Jacob L. 2006. “The New Promised Land: Black-White
Convergence in the American South, 1960–2000.” NBER Working Paper 12143, National Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, MA.
Villarreal, Roberto. 2005. “Regional Development Policies in
Mexico.” Paper presented at the Sustainable Regional Policy and
Planning Roundtable, Beijing, December 14.
Viner, Jacob. 1950. The Customs Union Issue. New York: Carnegie
Endowment of International Peace.
von Hoffman, A. 1996. “High Ambitions: The Past and Future of
American Low-Income Housing Policy.” Housing Policy Debate
7 (3): 423–46.
Wandschneider, Tiago, and Pravas Mishra. 2003. Rural NonFarm Economy and Livelihood Enhancement. Washington, DC:
National Resources Institute.
Ward, Doug. 2006. “Urbanization Is a World Concern.” Vancouver
Sun, June 14.
Warsh, David. 2006. Knowledge and the Wealth of Nations: A Story
of Economic Discovery. New York: W.W. Norton and Company.

WDR09_21_References.indd 327

327

Weber, Adna. 1899. The Growth of Cities in the Nineteenth Century:
A Study in Statistics. New York: Macmillan.
Whalley, John, and Shunming Zhang. 2007. “A Numerical Simulation Analysis of (Hukou) Labour Mobility Restrictions in
China.” Journal of Development Economics 83 (2): 392–410.
Wheat, Leonard F. 1986. “The Determinants of 1963–77 Regional
Manufacturing Growth: Why the South and West Grow.” Journal
of Regional Science 26 (4): 635–59.
Wheeler, David, and Ashoka Mody. 1992. “International Investment Location Decisions: The Case for U.S. Firms.” Journal of
International Economics 33 (1–2): 57–76.
Whittaker, D. Hugh. 1997. Small Firms in the Japanese Economy.
Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge University Press.
Wilbur Smith Associates and United Nations. 1980. Master Plan for
Metropolitan Lagos. New York: United Nations.
Williams, Naomi, and Chris Galley. 1995. “Urban-Rural Differentials in Infant Mortality in Victorian England.” Population Studies 49 (3): 401–20.
Williamson, Jeffrey. 1965. “Regional Inequality and the Process of
National Development: A Description of the Patterns.” Economic
Development and Cultural Change 13 (4): 1–84.
———. 1974. Late Nineteenth Century American Development: A
General Equilibrium History. New York: Cambridge University
Press.
———. 1982. “Was the Industrial Revolution Worth It? Disamenities and Death in 19th-Century British Towns.” Exploration in
Economic History 19 (3): 221–45.
———. 1987. “Did English Factor Markets Fail during the Industrial Revolution?” Oxford Economic Papers 39 (4): 641–78.
———. 1990. Coping with City Growth during the British Industrial Revolution. Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge University
Press.
Wilson, John S., Xubei Luo, and Harry J. Broadman. 2006. “Trade
and Transport Facilitation: European Accession and Capacity
Building Priorities.” Paper presented at the Transport and International Trade, Report of the 130th Round Table on Transport
Economics, Paris.
Wilson, John S., Catherine L. Mann, and Tsunehiro Otsuki. 2004.
“Assessing the Potential Benefit of Trade Facilitation: A Global
Perspective.” Policy Research Working Paper 3224, World Bank,
Washington, DC.
Winston, Clifford. 1993. “Economic Deregulation: Days of Reckoning for the Microeconomists.” Journal of Economic Literature
31 (3): 1263–89.
Winters, L. Alain, and Pedro Martins. 2004. “When Comparative Advantage Is Not Enough: Business Costs in Small Remote
Economies.” World Trade Review 3 (3): 347–83.
Wionczek, Miguel S. 1970. “The Rise and Decline of Latin American Economic Integration.” Journal of Common Market Studies
9 (1): 49–66.
Wisaweisuan, Nitinant. Forthcoming. “Spatial Disparities in Thailand: Does Government Policy Aggravate or Alleviate the Problem?” In Reshaping Economic Geography in East Asia, ed. Yukon
Huang and Alessandro Magnoli Bocchi. Washington, DC: World
Bank, EAP Companion Volume to the WDR 2009.

10/10/08 10:08:08 AM

328

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Wolf, Martin. 2004. Why Globalization Works. New Haven, CT: Yale
University Press.
Woods, Robert. 2000. The Demography of Victorian England and
Wales. Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge University Press.
Wordie, J. R. 1983. “The Chronology of English Enclosure, 1500–
1914.” Economic History Review 36 (4): 483–505.
World Bank. 1977. Spatial Development in Mexico. Report No.
1081-ME. Washington, DC: World Bank.
———. 1980. The Development of Regional Cities in Thailand.
Report No. 2900-TH. Washington, DC: World Bank.
———. 1998. Public Expenditure for Poverty Alleviation in Northeast Brazil: Promoting Growth and Improving Services. Washington, DC: World Bank.
———. 2002a. Cities on the Move: A World Bank Urban Transport
Strategy Review. Washington, DC: World Bank.
———. 2002b. From Natural Resources to the Knowledge Economy:
Trade and Job Quality. Washington, DC: World Bank, Latin
American and Caribbean Region.
———. 2003a. Trade, Investment, and Development in the Middle
East and North Africa: Engaging with the World. Washington,
DC: World Bank.
———. 2003b. World Bank Policy Research Report 2003: Land Policies for Growth and Poverty Reduction. New York: Oxford University Press.
———. 2004a. Global Economic Prospects 2005: Trade, Regionalism, and Development. Washington, DC: World Bank.
———. 2004b. World Development Report 2005: A Better Investment Climate for Everyone. New York: Oxford University Press.
———. 2005a. Brazil: Regional Economic Development—(Some)
Lessons from Experience. Washington, DC: World Bank.
———. 2005b. Chile: Zonas Extremas Policies and Beyond—An
Assessment of Costs and Impact with Recommendations of Avenues for Policy Reform. Report No. 27357-CH. Washington, DC:
World Bank.
———. 2005c. Food Safety and Agricultural Health Standards:
Challenges and Opportunities for Developing Country Exports.
Washington, DC: World Bank, PREM, and ARD.
———. 2005d. Global Economic Prospects 2006. Economic Implications of Remittances and Migration. Washington, DC: World
Bank.
———. 2005e. Growth, Poverty and Inequality: Eastern Europe and
the Former Soviet Union. Washington, DC: World Bank.
———. 2006a. At Home and Away: Expanding Job Opportunities
for Pacific Islanders through Labour Mobility. Washington, DC:
World Bank, East Asia and Pacific Region.
———. 2006b. Doing Business in 2007: How to Reform. Washington, DC: World Bank.
———. 2006c. Governance, Investment Climate, and Harmonious
Society: Competitiveness Enhancements for 120 Cities in China.
Washington, DC: World Bank.
———. 2006d. Housing Finance in Emerging Economies. Washington, DC: World Bank.
———. 2006e. Labor Migration in the Greater Mekong Sub-Region,
Synthesis Report Phase I. Washington, DC: World Bank, Regional
Office for East Asia and the Pacific.

WDR09_21_References.indd 328

———. 2006f. Trends in Average Applied Tariff Rates in Developing
and Industrial Countries, 1981–2005. Washington, DC: World
Bank, Development Research Group (digital file).
———. 2006g. World Development Indicators 2006. Washington,
DC: World Bank.
———. 2006h. World Development Report 2007: Development and
the Next Generation. Washington, DC: World Bank.
———. 2007a. Accelerating Growth and Development in the Lagging Regions of India. Washington, DC: World Bank, ESW
Report.
———. 2007b. Brazil: Inputs for a Strategy for Cities in Brazil.
Report No. 35749-BR. Washington, DC: World Bank.
———. 2007c. Brazil: Measuring Poverty using Household Consumption. Report No. 36358-BR. Washington, DC: World Bank,
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Sector Unit,
Latin America, and the Caribbean Region.
———. 2007d. Doing Business in 2008: Making a Difference. Washington, DC: World Bank.
———. 2007e. East Asia and Pacific Update: Will Resilience Overcome Risk? Washington, DC: World Bank.
———. 2007f. Making Finance Work for Africa. Washington, DC:
World Bank, Africa Region.
———. 2007g. Making the Most of Scarcity: Accountability for
Better Water Management in the Middle East and North Africa.
Washington, DC: World Bank, Middle East and North Africa
Region.
———. 2007h. South Asia: Growth and Regional Integration. New
Delhi: World Bank.
———. 2007i. World Bank Policy Research Report 2007: At Loggerheads? Agricultural Expansion, Poverty Reduction, and
Environment in the Tropical Forests. Washington, DC: World
Bank.
———. 2007j. World Development Indicators 2007. Washington,
DC: World Bank.
———. 2007k. World Development Report 2008: Agriculture for
Development. Washington, DC: World Bank.
———. 2008a. “Iran: Spatial Patterns of Poverty and Economic
Activity.” World Bank, Washington, DC.
———. 2008b. “Shrinking Distance: Identifying Priorities and
Assessing Trade-offs for Territorial Development Policies—SDN
Flagship Report, Spatial and Local.” World Bank, Washington,
DC.
———. 2008c. Transport for Development: The World Bank’s Transport Business Strategy for 2008–2012. Washington, DC: World
Bank.
———. 2008d. Transport Prices and Costs in Africa: A Review of the
Main International Corridors. Washington, DC: World Bank.
———. 2008e. Turkey: Country Economic Memorandum, Sustaining High Growth—Selected Issues. Report No. 39194. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Woronoff, Jon. 1972. West African Wager. Metuchen, NJ: Scarecrow
Press.
Wrigley, E. Anthony. 1985. “Urban Growth and Agricultural
Change: England and the Continent in the Early Modern
Period.” Journal of Interdisciplinary History 15 (4): 683–728.

10/10/08 10:08:09 AM

References

Xenos, Peter. 2004. “Demographic Forces Shaping Youth Populations in Asian Cities.” In Youth Poverty, and Conflict in Southeast
Asian Cities, ed. Lisa Hanley, Blair Ruble, and Joseph Tulchin.
Washington, DC: Woodrow Wilson International Center for
Scholars.
Yade, Mbaye, Anne Chohin-Kuper, Valerie Kelly, John Staatz, and
James Tefft. 1999. “The Role of Regional Trade in Agricultural
Transformation.” Paper presented at the Workshops on Structural Transformation in Africa, Nairobi.
Yamauchi, Futoshi, Megumi Muto, Reno Dewina, and Sony
Sumaryanto. Forthcoming. “Spatial Networks, Incentives, and
the Dynamics of Village Economy: Evidence from Indonesia.”
In Reshaping Economic Geography in East Asia, ed. Yukon Huang
and Alessandro Magnoli Bocchi. Washington, DC: World Bank,
EAP Companion Volume to the WDR 2009.
Yang, Dean. 2008. “International Migration, Remittances and
Household Investment: Evidence from Philippine Migrants’
Exchange Rate Shocks.” Economic Journal 118 (528): 591–630.
Yao, Yang. Forthcoming. “The Political Economy of Government
Policies Toward Regional Inequality in China.” In Reshaping
Economic Geography in East Asia, ed. Yukon Huang and Alessandro Magnoli Bocchi. Washington, DC: World Bank, EAP
Companion Volume to the WDR 2009.
Yasuba, Yasukichi. 1978. “Freight Rates and Productivity in Ocean
Transportation for Japan, 1875–1943.” Explorations in Economic
History 15 (1): 11–39.

WDR09_21_References.indd 329

329

Yemtsov, Ruslan. 2005. “Quo Vadis? Inequality and Poverty
Dynamics across Russian Regions.” In Spatial Inequality and
Development, ed. Ravi Kanbur and Anthony J. Venables. Oxford,
U.K.: Oxford University Press.
Yepes, Tito. 2008. “Inclusive Growth for Latin America.” World
Bank, Washington, DC.
Yepes, Tito, and Somik V. Lall. 2008. “Evaluating the Impact of
Upgrading Informal Settlements on Land Markets: Evidence
from Bogota.” World Bank, Washington, DC.
Yoshino, Yutaka. 2008. “Domestic Constraints, Firm Characteristics, and Geographical Diversification of Firm-Level Manufacturing Exports in Africa.” Policy Research Working Paper 4575,
World Bank, Washington, DC.
Young, Allyn. 1928. “Increasing Returns and Economic Progress.”
Economic Journal 38 (152): 527–42.
Yuen, Belinda. 2004. “Planning Singapore Growth for Better Living.” In Enhancing Urban Management in East Asia, ed. Belinda
Yuen and Mila Freire. Hampshire, U.K.: Ashgate Publishing.
Yusuf, Shahid, and Kaoru Nabeshima. 2006. Post-industrial East
Asian Cities, Innovation for Growth. Palo Alto, CA, and Washington, DC: World Bank and Stanford University Press.
Zhu, Nong, and Xubei Luo. 2008. “Impact of Remittances on Rural
Poverty and Inequality in China.” World Bank, East Asia and
Pacific Regional Office, Washington, DC.

10/10/08 10:08:09 AM

WDR09_21_References.indd 330

10/10/08 10:08:09 AM

Selected Indicators

Table A1 Geography and access
Table A2 Urbanization
Table A3 Territorial development
Table A4 International integration
Table A5 Other indicators
Sources and definitions

Selected world development indicators
Introduction
Classification of economies by region and income, FY2009
Table 1 Key indicators of development
Table 2 Millennium Development Goals: eradicating poverty
and improving lives
Table 3 Economic activity
Table 4 Trade, aid, and finance
Table 5 Key indicators for other economies
Technical notes

331

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 331

10/10/08 10:39:28 AM

332

Table A1

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Geography and access

Location
Economy
Afghanistan
Albania
Algeria
American Samoa
Andorra
Angola
Antigua and Barbuda
Argentina
Armenia
Aruba
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas, The
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belarus
Belgium
Belize
Benin
Bermuda
Bhutan
Bolivia
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Botswana
Brazil
Brunei Darussalam
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Cape Verde
Cayman Islands
Central African Republic
Chad
Channel Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Comoros
Congo, Dem. Rep.
Congo, Rep.
Costa Rica
Côte d’Ivoire
Croatia
Cuba
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Denmark
Djibouti
Dominica
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Egypt, Arab Rep.
El Salvador
Equatorial Guinea
Eritrea
Estonia
Ethiopia
Faeroe Islands
Fiji
Finland
France
French Polynesia
Gabon
Gambia, The
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Greenland
Grenada
Guam
Guatemala
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Guyana

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 332

2007
33 00 N, 65 00 E
41 00 N, 20 00 E
28 00 N, 3 00 E
14 20 S, 170 00 W
42 30 N, 1 30 E
12 30 S, 18 30 E
17 03 N, 61 48 W
34 00 S, 64 00 W
40 00 N, 45 00 E
12 30 N, 69 58 W
27 00 S, 133 00 E
47 20 N, 13 20 E
40 30 N, 47 30 E
24 15 N, 76 00 W
26 00 N, 50 33 E
24 00 N, 90 00 E
13 10 N, 59 32 W
53 00 N, 28 00 E
50 50 N, 4 00 E
17 15 N, 88 45 W
9 30 N, 2 15 E
32 20 N, 64 45 W
27 30 N, 90 30 E
17 00 S, 65 00 W
44 00 N, 18 00 E
22 00 S, 24 00 E
10 00 S, 55 00 W
4 30 N, 114 40 E
43 00 N, 25 00 E
13 00 N, 2 00 W
3 30 S, 30 00 E
13 00 N, 105 00 E
6 00 N, 12 00 E
60 00 N, 95 00 W
16 00 N, 24 00 W
19 30 N, 80 30 W
7 00 N, 21 00 E
15 00 N, 19 00 E

Arable land Forest land
Land
Airports with
Surface (% of land (% of land Coastline boundaries paved runway
2
area (km )
area)
area)
(kms)
(kms)
(number)
2007

652,090
28,750
2,381,740
200
470
1,246,700
440
2,780,400
29,800
180
7,741,220
83,870
86,600
13,880
710
144,000
430
207,600
30,530
22,970
112,620
50
47,000
1,098,580
51,210
581,730
8,514,880
5,770
111,000
274,000
27,830
181,040
475,440
9,984,670
4,030
260
623,000
1,284,000
190
30 00 S, 71 00 W
756,630
35 00 N, 105 00 E 9,598,088
4 00 N, 72 00 W 1,141,750
12 10 S, 44 15 E
1,861
0 00 N, 25 00 E
2,344,860
1 00 S, 15 00 E
342,000
10 00 N, 84 00 W
51,100
8 00 N, 5 00 W
322,460
45 10 N, 15 30 E
56,540
21 30 N, 80 00 W
110,860
35 00 N, 33 00 E
9,250
49 45 N, 15 30 E
78,870
56 00 N, 10 00 E
43,090
11 30 N, 43 00 E
23,200
15 25 N, 61 20 W
750
19 00 N, 70 40 W
48,730
2 00 S, 77 30 W
283,560
27 00 N, 30 00 E 1,001,450
13 50 N, 88 55 W
21,040
2 00 N, 10 00 E
28,050
15 00 N, 39 00 E
117,600
59 00 N, 26 00 E
45,230
8 00 N, 38 00 E
1,104,300
62 00 N, 7 00 W
1,400
18 00 S, 175 00 E
18,270
64 00 N, 26 00 E
338,150
46 00 N, 2 00 E
551,500
15 00 S, 140 00 W
4,000
1 00 S, 11 45 E
267,670
13 28 N, 16 34 W
11,300
42 00 N, 43 30 E
69,700
51 00 N, 9 00 E
357,050
8 00 N, 2 00 W
238,540
39 00 N, 22 00 E
131,960
72 00 N, 40 00 W
410,450
12 07 N, 61 40 W
340
13 28 N, 144 47 E
540
15 30 N, 90 15 W
108,890
11 00 N, 10 00 W
245,860
12 00 N, 15 00 W
36,120
5 00 N, 59 00 W
214,970

Ports and Rail density Road density National average
terminals (rail km per (road km per
distance to
(number)
100 km2)
100 km2)
capital city (kms)

2007

2007

2007

2007

2007

2007

2000–06 a

2000–06 a

2000

12.1
21.1
3.2
10.0
2.1
2.6
18.2
10.2
17.6
10.5
6.4
16.8
22.3
0.8
2.8
61.1
37.2
26.3
27.9
3.1
24.0
20.0
3.4
2.8
19.5
0.7
7.0
2.7
29.2
17.7
38.6
21.0
12.8
5.0
11.4
3.8
3.1
2.9
0.0
2.6
11.1
1.8
35.9
3.0
1.4
4.4
10.4
19.8
27.9
10.8
39.4
52.7
0.0
6.7
22.7
4.9
3.0
31.9
4.6
5.6
13.9
11.1
2.1
10.9
7.3
33.6
0.8
1.3
31.5
11.5
34.1
18.4
20.4
0.0
5.9
3.6
13.3
4.5
10.7
2.4

1.3
29.0
1.0
90.0
34.2
47.4
20.5
12.1
10.0
..
21.3
46.8
11.3
51.4
0.0
6.7
4.7
38.0
22.1
72.5
21.3
20.0
68.0
54.2
42.7
21.1
56.5
52.8
33.4
24.8
5.9
59.2
45.6
34.1
20.8
46.2
36.5
9.5
..
21.5
21.2
54.7
2.2
58.9
65.8
46.8
32.7
38.2
24.7
18.8
34.3
11.8
0.3
61.3
28.4
39.2
0.1
14.4
58.2
15.4
53.9
13.0
..
54.7
73.9
28.3
28.7
84.5
47.1
39.7
31.8
24.2
29.1
..
11.8
47.3
36.3
27.4
73.7
76.7

0
362
998
116
0
1,600
153
4,989
0
69
25,760
0
0
3,542
161
580
97
0
67
386
121
103
0
0
20
0
7,491
161
354
0
0
443
402
202,080
965
160
0
0
..
6,435
14,500
3,208
340
37
169
1,290
515
1,777
3,735
648
0
7,314
314
148
1,288
2,237
2,450
307
296
1,151
3,794
0
1,117
1,129
1,250
3,427
2,525
885
80
310
2,389
539
13,676
44,087
121
126
400
320
350
459

5,529
720
6,343
0
120
5,198
0
9,861
1,254
0
0
2,562
2,013
0
0
4,246
0
2,900
1,385
516
1,989
0
1,075
6,940
1,459
4,013
16,885
381
1,808
3,193
974
2,752
4,591
8,893
0
0
5,203
5,968
..
6,339
22,117
6,309
0
10,730
5,504
639
3,110
2,197
29
0
2,290
68
516
0
360
2,010
2,665
545
539
1,626
633
5,328
0
0
2,681
2,889
0
2,551
740
1,461
3,621
2,094
1,228
0
0
0
1,687
3,399
724
2,949

11
3
52
2
0
31
2
154
11
1
311
25
27
29
3
15
1
41
25
5
1
1
16
16
8
10
714
1
132
2
1
6
11
509
7
2
3
7
..
73
403
101
4
25
4
32
7
23
78
13
46
28
3
2
14
98
72
4
3
4
12
14
1
3
76
292
39
11
1
19
332
7
66
9
3
4
11
5
3
9

0
4
9
1
0
3
1
8
0
3
11
0
0
3
2
2
1
0
6
2
1
2
0
0
1
0
9
3
2
0
0
2
2
8
3
2
0
0
..
8
7
7
2
11
6
2
4
5
3
3
0
12
1
2
4
5
3
2
1
2
5
0
1
3
10
10
1
5
1
2
10
2
6
1
1
1
2
1
4
1

..
1.6
0.2
..
..
0.2
..
1.2
3.0
..
0.5
7.7
2.6
..
..
2.1
..
2.7
11.7
..
0.7
..
..
0.3
1.2
0.2
0.3
..
4.0
0.2
..
0.3
0.2
0.5
..
..
..
..
..
0.9
0.8
0.3
..
0.2
0.3
0.5
0.2
4.9
3.8
..
12.4
6.2
0.4
..
1.1
0.3
0.5
2.7
..
0.3
2.3
0.1
..
3.3
1.9
5.3
..
0.3

5.3
65.7
4.5
..
..
4.1
264.8
14.6
27.1
..
10.5
162.4
71.5
..
492.7
183.8
372.1
45.0
498.1
..
17.2
..
17.1
5.8
..
4.3
20.7
..
40.5
5.6
48.0
21.7
10.7
15.5
33.5
..
..
..
..
10.6
20.7
..
..
6.8
5.1
69.2
25.2
50.9
..
130.5
165.2
169.3
..
..

418
84
1,108
7
10
711
30
971
87
8
1,946
204
219
230
25
165
14
185
78
74
398
7
99
521
103
441
1,378
61
190
220
84
206
363
2,449
156
15
450
671
..
1,149
1,668
456
59
1,006
479
105
236
144
398
48
134
195
85
20
119
266
558
68
301
184
128
425
25
113
417
365
472
317
123
156
334
344
249
1,031
11
14
175
348
97
314

2.3
13.8
0.4
2.0
..
..
..
0.8
0.3
..
..

15.6
9.3
..
..
..
134.1
3.6
..
..
25.7
172.9
..
3.6
37.4
29.1
..
21.0
89.2
..
..
..
..
18.0
12.3
..

10/10/08 10:39:29 AM

333

Selected indicators

Location
Economy
Haiti
Honduras
Hong Kong, China
Hungary
Iceland
India
Indonesia
Iran, Islamic Rep.
Iraq
Ireland
Isle of Man
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kiribati
Korea, Dem. Rep.
Korea, Rep.
Kuwait
Kyrgyz Republic
Lao PDR
Latvia
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Libya
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Macao, China
Macedonia, FYR
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Maldives
Mali
Malta
Marshall Islands
Mauritania
Mauritius
Mayotte
Mexico
Micronesia, Fed. Sts.
Moldova
Monaco
Mongolia
Montenegro
Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar
Namibia
Nepal
Netherlands
Netherlands Antilles
New Caledonia
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Northern Mariana Islands
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Palau
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Puerto Rico
Qatar
Romania
Russian Federation
Rwanda
Samoa

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 333

Arable land Forest land
Land
Airports with
Surface (% of land (% of land Coastline boundaries paved runway
2
area (km )
area)
area)
(kms)
(kms)
(number)

Ports and Rail density Road density National average
terminals (rail km per (road km per
distance to
(number)
100 km2)
100 km2)
capital city (kms)

2007

2007

2007

2007

2007

2007

2007

2007

2000–06 a

19 00 N, 72 25 W
15 00 N, 86 30 W
22 15 N, 114 10 E
47 00 N, 20 00 E
65 00 N, 18 00 W
20 00 N, 77 00 E
5 00 S, 120 00 E
32 00 N, 53 00 E
33 00 N, 44 00 E
53 00 N, 8 00 W
54 15 N, 4 30 W
31 30 N, 34 45 E
42 50 N, 12 50 E
18 15 N, 77 30 W
36 00 N, 138 00 E
31 00 N, 36 00 E
48 00 N, 68 00 E
1 00 N, 38 00 E
1 25 N, 173 00 E
40 00 N, 127 00 E
37 00 N, 127 30 E
29 30 N, 45 45 E
41 00 N, 75 00 E
18 00 N, 105 00 E
57 00 N, 25 00 E
33 50 N, 35 50 E
29 30 S, 28 30 E
6 30 N, 9 30 W
25 00 N, 17 00 E
47 16 N, 9 32 E
56 00 N, 24 00 E
49 45 N, 6 10 E
22 10 N, 113 33 E
41 50 N, 22 00 E
20 00 S, 47 00 E
13 30 S, 34 00 E
2 30 N, 112 30 E
3 15 N, 73 00 E
17 00 N, 4 00 W
35 50 N, 14 35 E
9 00 N, 168 00 E
20 00 N, 12 00 W
20 17 S, 57 33 E
12 50 S, 45 10 E
23 00 N, 102 00 W
6 55 N, 158 15 E
47 00 N, 29 00 E
43 44 N, 7 24 E
46 00 N, 105 00 E
42 30 N, 19 18 E
32 00 N, 5 00 W
18 15 S, 35 00 E
22 00 N, 98 00 E
22 00 S, 17 00 E
28 00 N, 84 00 E
52 30 N, 5 45 E
12 15 N, 68 45 W
21 30 S, 165 30 E
41 00 S, 174 00 E
13 00 N, 85 00 W
16 00 N, 8 00 E
10 00 N, 8 00 E

27,750
112,090
1,092
93,030
103,000
3,287,260
1,904,570
1,745,150
438,320
70,270
570
22,070
301,340
10,990
377,910
88,780
2,724,900
580,370
810
120,540
99,260
17,820
199,900
236,800
64,590
10,400
30,350
111,370
1,759,540
160
65,300
2,590
28
25,710
587,040
118,480
329,740
300
1,240,190
320
180
1,030,700
2,040
374
1,964,380
700
33,840
2
1,566,500
14,026
446,550
799,380
676,580
824,290
147,180
41,530
800
18,580
267,710
130,000
1,267,000
923,770
460
323,800
309,500
796,100
460
75,520
462,840
406,750
1,285,220
300,000
312,690
92,120
8,950
11,000
238,390
17,098,240
26,340
2,840

28.3
9.5
0.0
51.3
0.1
53.7
12.7
9.8
13.1
17.6
0.0
14.6
26.3
16.1
12.0
2.1
8.3
8.2
2.7
23.3
16.6
0.8
6.7
4.3
17.5
16.6
10.9
4.0
1.0
25.0
30.4
23.2
0.0
22.3
5.1
26.0
5.5
13.3
3.9
28.1
11.1
0.5
49.3
0.0
13.0
5.7
56.2
0.0
0.8
0.0
19.0
5.5
15.3
1.0
16.5
26.8
10.0
0.3
5.6
15.9
11.4
33.5
0.0
2.8
0.1
27.6
8.7
7.4
0.5
7.7
2.9
19.1
39.6
16.8
8.0
1.6
40.4
7.4
48.6
21.2

3.8
41.5
..
22.1
0.5
22.8
48.8
6.8
1.9
9.7
5.2
7.9
33.9
31.3
68.2
0.9
1.2
6.2
2.7
51.4
63.5
0.3
4.5
69.9
47.2
13.3
0.3
32.7
0.1
43.8
33.5
33.6
..
35.6
22.1
36.2
63.6
3.3
10.3
..
..
0.3
18.2
13.4
33.7
90.0
10.0
0.0
6.5
..
9.8
24.6
49.0
9.3
25.4
10.8
1.3
39.2
31.0
42.7
1.0
12.2
69.2
30.8
0.0
2.5
87.0
57.7
65.0
46.5
53.7
24.0
30.0
41.3
46.0
..
27.7
49.4
19.5
60.4

1,771
820
733
0
4,970
7,000
54,716
2,440
58
1,448
160
273
7,600
1,022
29,751
26
0
536
1,143
2,495
2,416
499
0
0
531
225
0
579
1,770
0
90
0
41
0
4,828
0
4,675
644
0
197
370
754
177
185
9,330
6,112
0
4
0
294
1,835
2,470
1,930
1,572
0
451
364
2,254
15,134
910
0
853
..
2,650
2,092
1,046
1,519
2,490
5,152
0
2,414
36,289
491
1,793
501
563
225
37,653
0
403

360
1,520
30
2,271
0
14,103
2,830
5,440
3,650
360
0
1,017
1,932
0
0
1,635
12,012
3,477
0
238
462
462
3,878
5,083
1,368
454
909
1,585
4,348
76
1,613
359
0
766
0
2,881
2,669
0
7,243
0
0
5,074
0
0
4,353
0
1,389
4
8,220
625
2,018
4,571
5,876
3,936
2,926
1,027
15
0
0
1,231
5,697
4,047
..
2,542
1,374
6,774
0
555
820
3,995
7,461
0
3,056
1,214
0
60
2,508
20,097
893
0

4
11
3
20
5
243
159
129
77
15
1
30
98
11
145
15
67
15
3
36
69
4
18
9
24
5
3
2
60
0
34
1
1
10
29
6
37
2
9
1
4
8
2
1
228
6
6
0
12
3
26
22
21
21
10
20
5
11
45
11
9
36
..
67
6
91
1
53
21
12
54
83
83
43
17
3
25
616
4
3

1
4
1
0
5
8
9
2
3
5
3
4
8
5
10
1
0
1
1
12
5
6
0
0
2
4
0
2
6
0
1
0
1
0
4
0
9
1
0
1
1
2
1
1
7
1
0
1
0
1
6
3
3
2
0
7
4
1
5
3
0
3
..
8
2
2
1
3
3
0
2
6
4
4
3
1
4
10
0
1

..
0.6
..
9.0
..
2.1
0.4
0.5
0.5
4.7
11.4
3.9
6.6
..
6.4
0.6
0.5
0.5
..
4.3
3.5
..
0.2
..
3.7
3.9
..
0.5
..
5.6
2.8
10.6
..
2.7
0.1
0.8
0.6
..
0.1
..
..
0.1
..
..
0.9
..
3.5
..
0.1
1.8
0.4
0.4
0.6
0.3
0.0
8.3
..
..
1.5
0.0
..
0.4
..
1.4
..
1.1
..
0.5
..
0.0
0.2
0.3
7.5
3.0
1.1
..
5.0
0.5
..
..

62 00 N, 10 00 E
21 00 N, 57 00 E
30 00 N, 70 00 E
7 30 N, 134 30 E
9 00 N, 80 00 W
6 00 S, 147 00 E
23 00 S, 58 00 W
10 00 S, 76 00 W
13 00 N, 122 00 E
52 00 N, 20 00 E
39 30 N, 8 00 W
18 15 N, 66 30 W
25 30 N, 51 15 E
46 00 N, 25 00 E
60 00 N, 100 00 E
2 00 S, 30 00 E
13 35 S, 172 20 W

2000–06 a
..
..
186.5
178.0
12.9
113.8
20.3
11.0
..
140.2
..
80.6
164.8
193.9
323.0
8.5
3.3
11.1
..
..
101.6
32.3
9.8
13.5
111.6
..
..
..
..
..
126.6
201.8
1284.0
..
..
16.4
30.0
..
1.5
704.4
..
..
99.3
..
17.7
..
38.7
..
3.1
..
12.9
..
..
5.1
12.2
372.2
..
..
34.7
15.4
1.1
21.2
..
30.2
11.3
33.5
..
15.6
..
6.2
67.1
138.5
85.8
289.1
..
86.4
3.3
56.8
82.6

2000
99
167
..
137
235
992
1,519
654
281
165
13
110
353
67
531
171
823
372
25
211
187
67
255
311
140
60
98
196
910
6
143
25
..
76
385
230
873
276
804
9
..
686
51
13
886
134
87
..
617
..
369
1,112
619
407
236
95
36
157
418
192
896
380
16
507
462
661
11
179
536
363
690
555
237
237
60
55
246
4,322
65
51

10/10/08 10:39:30 AM

334

Table A1

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Geography and access—continued

Location
Economy
San Marino
Sao Tome and Princip
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Slovak Republic
Slovenia
Solomon Islands
Somalia
South Africa
Spain
Sri Lanka
St. Kitts and Nevis
St. Lucia
St. Vincent and the Grenadines
Sudan
Suriname
Swaziland
Sweden
Switzerland
Syrian Arab Republic
Taiwan, China
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand
Timor-Leste
Togo
Tonga
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
United States
Uruguay
Uzbekistan
Vanuatu
Venezuela, RB
Vietnam
Virgin Islands (U.S.)
West Bank and Gaza
Yemen, Rep.
Zambia
Zimbabwe

2007

Arable land Forest land
Land
Airports with
Surface (% of land (% of land Coastline boundaries paved runway
2
area (km )
area)
area)
(kms)
(kms)
(number)
2007

43 46 N, 12 25 E
1 00 N, 7 00 E
25 00 N, 45 00 E
14 00 N, 14 00 W

60
960
2,000,000
196,720
88,361
4 35 S, 55 40 E
460
8 30 N, 11 30 W
71,740
1 22 N, 103 48 E
699
48 40 N, 19 30 E
49,030
46 07 N, 14 49 E
20,270
8 00 S, 159 00 E
28,900
10 00 N, 49 00 E
637,660
29 00 S, 24 00 E 1,219,090
40 00 N, 4 00 W
505,370
7 00 N, 81 00 E
65,610
17 20 N, 62 45 W
260
13 53 N, 60 58 W
620
13 15 N, 61 12 W
390
15 00 N, 30 00 E 2,505,810
4 00 N, 56 00 W
163,270
26 30 S, 31 30 E
17,360
62 00 N, 15 00 E
450,290
47 00 N, 8 00 E
41,280
35 00 N, 38 00 E
185,180
23 30 N, 121 00 E
35,980
39 00 N, 71 00 E
142,550
6 00 S, 35 00 E
947,300
15 00 N, 100 00 E
513,120
8 50 S, 125 55 E
14,870
8 00 N, 1 10 E
56,790
20 00 S, 175 00 W
750
11 00 N, 61 00 W
5,130
34 00 N, 9 00 E
163,610
39 00 N, 35 00 E
783,560
40 00 N, 60 00 E
488,100
1 00 N, 32 00 E
241,040
49 00 N, 32 00 E
603,550
24 00 N, 54 00 E
83,600
54 00 N, 2 00 W
243,610
38 00 N, 97 00 W 9,632,030
33 00 S, 56 00 W
176,220
41 00 N, 64 00 E
447,400
16 00 S, 167 00 E
12,190
8 00 N, 66 00 W
912,050
16 00 N, 106 00 E
329,310
18 20 N, 64 50 W
350
32 00 N, 35 15 E
6,020
15 00 N, 48 00 E
527,970
15 00 S, 30 00 E
752,610
20 00 S, 30 00 E
390,760

Ports and Rail density Road density National average
terminals (rail km per (road km per
distance to
(number)
100 km2)
100 km2)
capital city (kms)

2007

2007

2007

2007

2007

2007

2000–06 a

2000–06 a

2000

16.7
8.3
1.8
12.8
0.0
2.2
8.0
0.9
28.9
8.7
0.6
1.7
12.1
27.4
14.2
19.4
6.6
17.9
7.2
0.4
10.3
6.6
10.3
26.5
0.0
6.6
4.5
27.7
8.2
46.1
20.8
14.6
18.0
31.0
4.7
26.4
56.0
0.8
23.7
19.0
7.8
11.0
1.6
2.9
21.3
5.7
17.8
2.9
7.1
8.3

..
28.1
1.4
45.0
..
87.0
38.5
2.9
40.1
62.8
77.6
11.4
7.6
35.9
29.9
13.9
27.9
28.2
28.4
94.7
31.5
67.1
30.5
2.5
..
2.9
39.9
28.4
53.7
7.1
5.6
44.1
6.8
13.2
8.8
18.4
16.5
3.7
11.8
33.1
8.6
7.7
36.1
54.1
41.7
28.6
1.5
1.0
57.1
45.3

0
209
2,640
531
..
491
402
193
0
47
5,313
3,025
2,798
4,964
1,340
135
158
84
853
386
0
3,218
0
193
1,566
0
1,424
3,219
706
56
419
362
1,148
7,200
0
0
2,782
1,318
12,429
19,924
660
0
2,528
2,800
3,444
188
0
1,906
0
0

39
0
4,431
2,640
..
0
958
0
1,524
1,382
0
2,340
4,862
1,918
0
0
0
0
7,687
1,703
535
2,233
1,852
2,253
0
3,651
3,861
4,863
228
1,647
0
0
1,424
2,648
3,736
2,698
4,663
867
360
12,034
1,648
6,221
0
4,993
4,639
0
404
1,746
5,664
3,066

0
2
73
9
..
8
1
9
18
6
2
7
146
96
14
2
2
5
15
5
1
155
42
26
38
17
11
66
3
2
1
3
14
89
22
5
193
23
334
5119
8
34
3
129
26
2
3
16
10
17

0
1
4
1
..
1
3
1
0
1
5
5
6
8
2
2
3
1
1
1
0
9
0
2
5
0
3
4
1
2
1
3
4
8
0
0
8
7
8
12
5
0
3
5
2
2
0
2
0
0

..
..
0.1
0.5
4.3
..
..
..
7.6
6.1
..
..
1.7
3.0
2.2
13.9
..
..
0.3
..
1.8
2.8
12.1
1.5
7.8
0.3
0.4
0.8
..
1.0
..
..
1.4
1.1
0.5
0.6
3.9
..
6.8
2.5
1.2
0.9
..
0.1
0.8
..
..
..
0.3
0.8

..
..
7.6
7.1
..
99.6
15.8
462.7
89.4
190.9
0.0
..
30.0
133.5
150.5
..
..
212.6
0.0
2.8
20.9
103.6
178.0
51.6
115.6
19.8
8.9
11.2
..
..
..
..
12.4
55.5
..
35.9
29.2
..
160.2
70.2
34.3
..
..
..
71.7
..
83.0
..
12.3
25.1

3
45
593
328
..
413
170
11
199
65
214
623
608
306
157
8
15
11
699
248
64
439
99
289
168
240
395
428
..
300
108
48
335
442
344
223
373
141
361
2,595
275
564
250
549
646
10
..
406
436
285

a. Data are for the latest year available in the period shown.

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 334

10/10/08 10:39:31 AM

335

Selected indicators

Table A2

Urbanization
Urbanization

Agglomeration
index, 0 (low)
to 100 (high)

Population density

Urban
Urban
population
Urban
population
(% of total population (% (% of total
pop.)
of total pop.)
pop.)

Population
density
(number of
people
per km2)

Rural-urban disparities

Pop. in
Pop. in
cities >
largest
% of urban
1 million
city
population
(% of total
(% of
with water
pop.) urban pop.)
access

% of rural
% of rural
% of urban
population
population
population
with
with water with sanitation sanitation
access
services
services

Economy

2000

2000

2005

2015

2006

2005

2005

2004

2004

2004

2004

Afghanistan
Albania
Algeria
American Samoa
Andorra
Angola
Antigua and Barbuda
Argentina
Armenia
Aruba
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas, The
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belarus
Belgium
Belize
Benin
Bermuda
Bhutan
Bolivia
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Botswana
Brazil
Brunei Darussalam
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Cape Verde
Cayman Islands
Central African Republic
Chad
Channel Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Comoros
Congo, Dem. Rep.
Congo, Rep.
Costa Rica
Côte d’Ivoire
Croatia
Cuba
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Denmark
Djibouti
Dominica
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Egypt, Arab Rep.
El Salvador
Equatorial Guinea
Eritrea
Estonia
Ethiopia
Faeroe Islands
Fiji
Finland
France
French Polynesia
Gabon
Gambia, The
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Greenland
Grenada

25.0
52.7
58.7
..
..
26.8
..
72.1
69.6
..
75.9
67.9
48.7
57.8
94.9
48.0
91.3
60.6
89.8
1.8
37.5
..
3.8
55.7
37.7
27.9
63.6
63.8
64.9
12.8
31.7
23.8
40.2
70.5
44.4
..
19.7
12.1
..
74.8
37.2
62.1
..
25.6
54.2
54.0
35.1
37.3
64.2
62.1
73.8
48.8
40.6
..
71.7
49.2
90.4
73.7
21.4
21.4
45.3
11.9
..
17.7
52.4
72.5
45.8
35.9
44.0
50.2
79.6
34.1
57.5
..
..

21.3
41.8
59.8
88.8
92.4
50.0
37.3
89.2
65.1
46.7
87.2
65.8
50.9
88.8
94.6
23.2
49.9
70.0
97.1
47.7
38.4
100.0
9.6
61.8
43.2
53.3
81.2
71.2
68.9
16.6
8.6
16.9
50.0
79.4
53.4
100.0
37.6
23.4
30.5
86.0
35.8
71.2
33.8
29.8
58.3
59.0
43.1
55.6
75.6
68.7
74.0
85.1
83.4
71.1
62.4
60.3
42.5
58.4
38.8
17.8
69.4
14.9
36.3
48.3
61.1
75.8
52.4
80.2
49.1
52.7
75.1
44.0
58.8
81.6
31.0

22.9
45.4
63.3
91.3
90.6
53.3
39.1
90.1
64.1
46.6
88.2
66.0
51.5
90.4
96.5
25.1
52.7
72.3
97.2
48.3
40.1
100.0
11.1
64.2
45.8
57.4
84.2
73.5
70.0
18.3
10.0
19.7
54.6
80.1
57.3
100.0
38.1
25.3
30.5
87.6
40.4
72.7
37.0
32.1
60.2
61.7
45.0
56.5
75.5
69.3
73.5
85.6
86.1
72.9
66.8
62.8
42.8
59.8
38.9
19.4
69.1
16.0
38.8
50.8
61.1
76.7
51.7
83.6
53.9
52.2
75.2
47.8
59.0
82.9
30.6

27.1
52.8
69.3
94.1
87.8
59.7
44.7
91.6
64.1
47.6
89.9
67.7
52.8
92.2
98.2
29.9
58.8
76.7
97.5
51.2
44.6
100.0
14.8
68.8
51.8
64.6
88.2
77.6
72.8
22.8
13.5
26.1
62.7
81.4
64.3
100.0
40.4
30.5
31.5
90.1
49.2
75.7
44.0
38.6
64.2
66.9
49.8
59.5
74.7
71.5
74.1
86.9
89.6
76.4
73.6
67.6
45.4
63.2
41.1
24.4
70.1
19.1
41.5
56.1
62.7
79.0
52.3
87.7
61.8
53.8
76.3
55.1
61.0
85.5
32.2

..
115
14
292
141
13
189
14
107
557
3
100
102
32
1021
1178
679
47
347
13
77
1271
14
8
76
3
22
71
71
51
306
79
38
4
126
173
7
8
782
22
140
41
323
26
11
85
58
79
103
82
132
128
35
96
196
47
73
322
17
45
32
75
35
45
17
111
70
5
162
64
236
99
86
0
313

..
..
9.7
..
..
17.2
..
39.1
36.5
..
60.4
27.4
22.1
..
..
11.8
..
18.2
9.7
..
..
..
..
31.0
..
..
36.9
..
14.1
..
..
9.8
18.2
44.5
..
..
..
..
..
34.9
17.7
36.0
..
16.2
32.5
28.1
19.2
..
19.4
..
11.4
20.1
..
..
21.4
29.9
20.5
22.7
..
..
..
3.8
..
..
20.8
22.4
..
..
..
23.4
7.7
15.5
29.1
..
..

..
..
15.4
..
..
32.2
..
35.9
57.0
..
24.1
41.6
42.9
..
..
32.3
..
25.2
9.9
..
..
..
..
25.9
..
..
11.7
..
20.2
36.3
..
49.6
18.1
20.5
..
..
..
34.6
..
39.8
2.8
23.7
..
32.1
54.0
45.6
42.8
..
25.7
..
15.6
23.5
..
..
32.0
29.1
35.7
38.0
..
..
..
24.1
..
..
34.0
21.0
..
..
..
44.8
5.5
18.4
49.3
..
..

63
99
88
..
100
75
95
98
99
100
100
100
95
98
100
82
100
100
100
100
78
..
86
95
99
100
96
..
100
94
92
64
86
100
86
..
93
41
..
100
93
99
92
82
84
100
97
100
95
100
100
100
76
100
97
97
99
94
45
74
100
81
..
43
100
100
100
95
95
96
100
88
..
..
97

31
94
80
..
100
40
89
80
80
100
100
100
59
86
..
72
100
100
..
82
57
..
60
68
96
90
57
..
97
54
77
35
44
99
73
..
61
43
..
58
67
71
82
29
27
92
74
100
78
100
100
100
59
90
91
89
97
70
42
57
99
11
..
51
100
100
100
47
77
67
100
64
..
..
93

49
99
99
..
100
56
98
92
96
..
100
100
73
100
100
51
99
93
..
71
59
..
65
60
99
57
83
..
100
42
47
53
58
100
61
..
47
24
..
95
69
96
41
42
28
89
46
100
99
100
99
..
88
86
81
94
86
77
60
32
97
44
..
87
100
..
99
37
72
96
100
27
..
..
96

29
84
82
..
100
16
94
83
61
..
100
100
36
100
..
35
100
61
..
25
11
..
70
22
92
25
37
..
96
6
35
8
43
99
19
..
12
4
..
62
28
54
29
25
25
97
29
100
95
100
97
..
50
75
73
82
58
39
46
3
96
7
..
55
100
..
97
30
46
91
100
11
..
..
97

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 335

10/10/08 10:39:31 AM

336

Table A2

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Urbanization—continued
Urbanization

Agglomeration
index, 0 (low)
to 100 (high)

Population density

Urban
Urban
population
Urban
population
(% of total population (% (% of total
pop.)
of total pop.)
pop.)

Population
density
(number of
people
per km2)

Rural-urban disparities

Pop. in
Pop. in
cities >
largest
% of urban
1 million
city
population
(% of total
(% of
with water
pop.) urban pop.)
access

% of rural
% of rural
% of urban
population
population
population
with
with water with sanitation sanitation
access
services
services

Economy

2000

2000

2005

2015

2006

2005

2005

2004

2004

2004

2004

Guam
Guatemala
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Guyana
Haiti
Honduras
Hong Kong, China
Hungary
Iceland
India
Indonesia
Iran, Islamic Rep.
Iraq
Ireland
Isle of Man
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kiribati
Korea, Dem. Rep.
Korea, Rep.
Kuwait
Kyrgyz Republic
Lao PDR
Latvia
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Libya
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Macao, China
Macedonia, FYR
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Maldives
Mali
Malta
Marshall Islands
Mauritania
Mauritius
Mayotte
Mexico
Micronesia, Fed. Sts.
Moldova
Monaco
Mongolia
Montenegro
Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar
Namibia
Nepal
Netherlands
Netherlands Antilles
New Caledonia
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Northern Mariana Islands
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Palau
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay

2.4
36.6
15.0
20.9
36.1
33.9
41.6
99.8
71.9
57.1
52.4
55.2
60.9
69.9
45.8
..
81.3
78.0
69.4
90.9
77.9
50.6
25.4
..
46.2
86.4
85.2
34.0
13.5
52.6
79.0
23.1
17.8
80.4
..
56.1
75.1
58.8
63.5
19.5
23.8
68.0
..
18.4
91.5
..
26.3
92.1
0.0
68.4
..
49.4
..
34.4
37.4
53.0
24.1
33.1
13.3
26.0
88.2
81.5
50.6
64.7
48.0
14.3
40.8
..
46.8
68.5
53.6
..
52.6
3.5
45.7

93.2
45.1
31.0
29.7
28.6
35.6
44.4
100.0
64.6
92.3
27.7
42.0
64.2
67.8
59.2
51.8
91.4
67.2
51.8
65.2
80.4
56.3
19.7
43.0
60.2
79.6
98.2
35.4
18.9
68.1
86.0
17.9
54.3
83.1
15.1
67.0
83.8
100.0
64.9
26.0
15.1
61.8
27.5
27.9
93.4
65.8
40.0
42.7
..
74.7
22.3
46.1
100.0
56.6
..
55.1
30.7
28.0
32.4
13.4
76.8
69.3
61.9
85.7
57.2
16.2
43.9
93.3
76.1
71.6
33.2
69.6
65.8
13.2
55.3

94.1
47.2
33.0
29.6
28.2
38.8
46.5
100.0
66.3
92.8
28.7
48.1
66.9
66.9
60.5
51.8
91.6
67.6
53.1
65.8
82.3
57.3
20.7
47.4
61.6
80.8
98.3
35.8
20.6
67.8
86.6
18.7
58.1
84.8
14.6
66.6
82.8
100.0
68.9
26.8
17.2
67.3
29.6
30.5
95.3
66.7
40.4
42.4
..
76.0
22.3
46.7
100.0
56.7
..
58.7
34.5
30.7
35.1
15.8
80.2
70.4
63.7
86.2
59.0
16.8
48.2
94.5
77.4
71.5
34.9
69.7
70.8
13.4
58.5

95.3
52.0
38.1
31.1
29.4
45.5
51.4
100.0
70.3
93.6
32.0
58.5
71.9
66.9
63.8
52.8
91.9
69.5
56.7
68.2
85.3
60.3
24.1
55.4
65.5
83.1
98.5
38.1
24.9
68.9
87.9
22.0
64.8
87.4
14.7
66.8
82.1
100.0
75.2
30.1
22.1
75.4
34.8
36.5
97.2
69.3
43.1
44.1
..
78.7
23.6
50.0
100.0
58.8
..
65.0
42.4
37.4
41.1
20.9
84.9
73.4
67.4
87.4
63.0
19.3
55.9
95.9
78.6
72.3
39.6
70.9
77.9
15.0
64.4

312
117
37
57
4
337
61
6539
113
3
368
122
42
..
60
133
320
199
245
351
61
6
63
122
196
489
142
27
25
37
392
65
36
3
217
54
176
16776
80
32
141
78
984
10
1261
351
3
612
481
53
157
118
16667
2
44
68
26
73
2
189
482
233
13
15
45
10
155
175
15
8
202
44
43
13
15

..
..
15.8
..
..
22.9
..
103.3
16.8
..
11.6
11.6
22.9
..
24.9
..
43.5
17.4
..
47.8
23.9
7.6
7.8
..
18.9
50.6
71.4
..
..
..
44.3
..
..
54.3
..
..
..
..
..
8.5
..
5.5
..
11.8
..
..
..
..
..
35.0
..
..
..
..
..
15.9
6.4
8.6
..
..
13.8
..
..
27.8
21.3
..
13.3
..
..
..
17.8
..
37.6
..
31.5

..
16.4
48.0
..
..
59.0
29.2
103.3
25.3
..
5.8
12.5
15.8
..
41.2
..
47.5
8.5
..
41.9
29.0
13.3
37.6
..
23.0
24.7
72.6
43.3
..
..
51.2
..
46.8
41.8
..
..
..
..
..
31.7
..
8.1
..
38.6
..
..
..
..
..
24.8
..
..
..
59.6
..
17.7
18.6
28.0
..
19.0
8.8
..
..
32.2
36.2
38.1
16.0
..
22.4
..
21.4
..
53.1
..
53.8

100
99
78
79
83
52
95
..
100
100
95
87
99
97
100
..
100
100
98
100
99
97
83
77
100
97
..
98
79
100
100
92
72
..
..
..
100
..
..
77
98
100
98
78
100
82
59
100
..
100
95
97
100
87
..
99
72
80
98
96
100
..
..
100
90
80
67
98
100
..
96
79
99
88
99

100
92
35
49
83
56
81
..
98
100
83
69
84
50
..
..
100
..
88
100
91
73
46
53
100
71
..
66
43
96
100
76
52
..
..
..
100
..
..
35
68
96
76
36
100
96
44
100
..
87
94
88
..
30
..
56
26
77
81
89
100
..
..
..
63
36
31
97
100
..
89
94
79
32
68

99
90
31
57
86
57
87
..
100
100
59
73
..
95
..
..
100
..
91
100
94
87
46
59
58
..
..
75
67
82
100
61
49
97
..
..
..
..
..
48
62
95
100
59
100
93
49
95
..
91
61
86
100
75
..
88
53
88
50
62
100
..
..
..
56
43
53
94
..
97
92
96
89
67
94

98
82
11
23
60
14
54
..
85
100
22
40
..
48
..
..
..
..
69
100
87
52
41
22
60
..
..
51
20
71
87
32
7
96
..
..
..
..
..
26
61
93
42
39
..
58
8
94
..
41
14
52
..
37
..
52
19
72
13
30
100
..
..
..
34
4
36
96
..
..
41
52
51
41
61

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 336

10/10/08 10:39:33 AM

337

Selected indicators

Urbanization

Agglomeration
index, 0 (low)
to 100 (high)

Population density

Urban
Urban
population
Urban
population
(% of total population (% (% of total
pop.)
of total pop.)
pop.)

Population
density
(number of
people
per km2)

Rural-urban disparities

Pop. in
Pop. in
cities >
largest
% of urban
1 million
city
population
(% of total
(% of
with water
pop.) urban pop.)
access

% of rural
% of rural
% of urban
population
population
population
with
with water with sanitation sanitation
access
services
services

Economy

2000

2000

2005

2015

2006

2005

2005

2004

2004

2004

2004

Peru
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Puerto Rico
Qatar
Romania
Russian Federation
Rwanda
Samoa
San Marino
Sao Tome and Princip
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Slovak Republic
Slovenia
Solomon Islands
Somalia
South Africa
Spain
Sri Lanka
St. Kitts and Nevis
St. Lucia
St. Vincent and the Grenadines
Sudan
Suriname
Swaziland
Sweden
Switzerland
Syrian Arab Republic
Taiwan, China
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand
Timor-Leste
Togo
Tonga
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
United States
Uruguay
Uzbekistan
Vanuatu
Venezuela, RB
Vietnam
Virgin Islands (U.S.)
West Bank and Gaza
Yemen, Rep.
Zambia
Zimbabwe

52.1
56.1
67.2
62.6
90.3
87.1
65.2
64.8
14.3
..
60.0
46.2
75.7
43.0
60.5
..
29.3
96.2
59.3
48.1
6.9
21.4
50.2
76.7
38.2
..
75.4
..
31.9
70.4
20.2
54.4
75.8
57.2
84.1
36.2
28.2
35.6
0.0
35.7
..
81.6
48.7
60.1
42.6
28.0
63.9
61.0
84.4
71.9
64.1
54.2
..
80.5
47.1
..
57.9
23.0
30.8
33.4

71.6
58.6
61.7
54.4
94.7
95.0
54.6
73.4
13.8
21.9
93.5
53.4
79.9
40.6
..
51.1
37.0
100.0
56.3
50.8
15.7
33.3
56.9
76.3
15.7
32.8
28.0
44.4
36.1
72.1
23.3
84.0
73.1
50.1
..
25.9
22.3
31.1
24.5
36.6
23.2
10.8
63.4
64.7
45.1
12.1
67.2
77.4
89.4
79.1
91.4
37.3
21.7
91.1
24.3
92.6
71.5
25.4
34.8
33.8

72.6
62.7
62.1
57.6
97.6
95.4
53.7
73.0
19.3
22.4
97.2
58.0
81.0
41.6
..
52.9
40.7
100.0
56.2
51.0
17.0
35.2
59.3
76.7
15.1
32.2
27.6
45.9
40.8
73.9
24.1
84.2
75.2
50.6
..
24.7
24.2
32.3
26.5
40.1
24.0
12.2
65.3
67.3
46.3
12.6
67.8
76.7
89.7
80.8
92.0
36.7
23.5
93.4
26.4
94.2
71.6
27.3
35.0
35.9

74.9
69.6
64.0
63.6
99.3
96.2
56.1
72.6
28.7
24.9
99.3
65.8
83.2
44.7
..
58.2
48.2
100.0
58.0
53.3
20.5
40.1
64.1
78.3
15.7
33.5
29.0
50.0
49.4
77.4
27.5
85.1
78.8
53.4
..
24.6
28.9
36.2
31.2
47.4
27.4
15.8
69.1
71.9
50.8
14.5
70.2
77.4
90.6
83.7
93.1
38.0
28.1
95.9
31.6
96.0
72.9
31.9
37.0
40.9

21
284
125
115
441
72
94
9
374
65
470
159
12
61
84
180
78
6302
112
99
17
13
39
87
304
185
270
305
16
3
66
22
186
103
705
47
43
123
66
115
138
258
65
94
10
147
81
49
249
32
19
62
18
30
268
311
602
40
15
34

26.3
14.2
4.4
38.6
66.6
..
8.9
19.2
..
..
..
..
36.2
18.3
..
..
..
99.6
..
..
..
16.1
30.0
24.0
..
..
..
..
12.2
..
..
18.9
15.4
25.4
..
..
7.0
10.5
..
21.4
..
..
..
25.6
..
4.6
13.1
32.4
26.1
43.3
38.2
8.3
..
36.9
13.4
..
..
8.5
11.0
11.5

36.3
20.2
7.1
45.4
68.2
..
16.6
10.2
43.7
..
..
..
22.4
44.1
..
..
35.2
99.6
..
..
..
45.7
11.7
16.8
..
..
..
..
30.0
..
..
22.5
20.5
26.4
..
..
28.7
32.4
..
53.4
..
..
..
20.0
..
36.2
8.4
42.2
15.7
7.8
41.6
22.7
..
11.7
23.1
..
..
31.3
31.4
32.2

89
87
100
..
..
100
91
100
92
90
..
89
97
92
..
100
75
100
100
..
94
32
99
100
98
99
98
..
78
98
87
100
100
98
..
92
85
98
77
80
100
92
99
98
93
87
99
100
100
100
100
95
86
85
99
..
94
71
90
98

65
82
..
..
..
100
16
88
69
87
..
73
..
60
..
75
46
..
99
..
65
27
73
100
74
99
98
93
64
73
54
100
100
87
..
48
49
100
56
36
100
88
82
93
54
56
91
100
100
100
100
75
52
70
80
..
88
65
40
72

74
80
..
..
..
100
89
93
56
100
..
32
100
79
..
..
53
100
100
..
98
48
79
100
98
96
89
..
50
99
59
100
100
99
..
70
53
98
66
71
98
100
96
96
77
54
98
98
..
100
100
78
78
71
92
..
78
86
59
63

32
59
..
..
..
100
..
70
38
100
..
20
..
34
..
100
30
..
98
..
18
14
46
100
89
96
89
96
24
76
44
100
100
81
..
45
43
99
33
15
96
100
65
72
50
41
93
95
..
100
99
61
42
48
50
..
61
28
52
47

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 337

10/10/08 10:39:34 AM

338

Table A3

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Territorial development
Leading area: defined as the area with the highest measure of welfare
(income or consumption or gdp) per capita

Area’s
number of poor
as percentage
Poverty of total country
Incidence
poor

Area’s
welfare
measure
as a % of
country’s
average
welfare
measure

Area
(km2)

Population
density
(number of
people per
km2)

2007

latest census

Economy

Area name

1995–2006a

1995–2006a

1995–2006a

Albania
Argentina

Tirane
Ciudad Autonoma
de Buenos Aires
Yerevan
Australian Capital
Territory
Baku
Dhaka
Minsk
Belize
Littoral
Santa Cruz
Sao Paulo
Sofia-city
Centre
Muramvya
Phnom Penh
Douala (capital of
Littoral)
Alberta
Ennedi
Region
Metropolitana
Central
Lagunes
Grad Zagreb

21.8
18.7

13.0
5.4

111
256

1,193
203

439
13,676

44.7
14.8

34.2
0.9

124
139

210
2,432

49.0
46.7
13.3
24.5
8.9
40.6
17.8
3.2
22.3
37.6
11.9
10.9

25.1
30.0
14.4
21.8
2.5
17.8
12.6
4.4
4.9
3.5
3.6
2.6

109
157
107
123
185
131
154
111
197
141
249
183

13.3
21.0
13.5

8.6
0.01
28.9

17.1
17.9
2.7

Ali Sabieh
Distrito Nacional
Pichincha
San Salvador
Harjumaa
Addis Ababa City

Lagging area: defined as the area with the lowest measure of welfare
(income or consumption or gdp) per capita

Area’s
number of poor
as percentage
Poverty of total country
Incidence
poor
Area name

Area’s
welfare
measure
as a % of
country’s
average
welfare
measure

Area
(km2)

Population
density
(number of
people per
km2)
latest census

1995–2006a

1995–2006a

1995–2006a

2007

56.2
31.4

2.8
2.6

66
38

718
136,351

60
6

5,196
129

Bulqize
Santiago del
Estero
Armavir
Tasmania

52.0
31.1

9.3
2.8

68
89

1,241
68,127

20
7

2,130
30,772
40,800
4,204
79
370,621
248,177
1,349
2,805
696
375
..

944
1,257
38
16
6,795
5
149
858
413
363
2,547
..

Nakhchivan AR
Rajshahi
Gomel
Toledo
Mono
Potosi
Piaui
Kardzhali
Centre Sud
Ruyigi
Siemreap
Extreme-Nord

45.0
56.7
17.3
57.6
58.6
76.6
57.1
19.3
66.1
55.4
53.7
56.3

4.1
28.2
18.5
17.5
8.5
11.8
3.1
3.7
6.1
6.2
11.8
24.9

90
22
93
74
64
56
31
81
61
62
63
67

5,500
13,218
40,400
4,649
1,396
118,218
251,312
3,209
11,313
2,339
10,299
34,246

65
2,269
38
5
201
6
11
50
43
130
67
80

111
295
130

661,848
..
15,782

5
..
384

Newfoundland
Mayo-Dala
Maule

18.7
79.0
23.1

1.9
4.9
7.4

77
68
70

405,212
..
30,518

1
..
30

34.8
6.1
4.1

117
160
133

10,669
14,200
641

47
230
1,216

23.6
56.4
19.8

10.8
5.4
3.6

38
62
68

9,189
8,500
2,024

12
59
46

92.4
21.5

7.0
6.2

192
159

2,600
91

6
9,897

Huetar Atlantic
Marahoue
VirovitickoPodravska
zupanija
Djibouti
Elias Pina

36.2
74.0

58.3
1.5

92
39

600
1,397

528
46

5.1
6.8
7.9
57.0

7.9
12.6
33.7
4.0

144
151
228
197

9,110
886
4,333
530

259
1,668
120
4,574

34.7
32.6
11.4
71.0

1.6
5.5
1.0
1.1

49
45
2
72

29,774
1,104
1,023
49,289

2
123
10
11

Estuaire
Banjul
Greater Accra
Guatemala
Conakry
Ouest
Islas de la Bahia
Kerala
Jakarta
Saint Andrew and
Kingston
Jordan
Amman
Kenya
Nairobi Province
Kyrgyz Republic Chuy Oblast
Madagascar
Antananarivo
Malawi
Southern Region
Mali
Bamako
Mauritania
Nouakchott
Mexico
Distrito Federal
Mongolia
Ulaanbaatar
Morocco
Grand Casablanca

23.0
50.0
2.4
11.7
24.4
57.0
57.6
15.0
4.3
16.4

35.8
19.2
1.4
4.6
7.6
25.7
0.4
1.7
0.8
16.8

121
183
182
212
140
162
154
140
289
138

20,740
88
2,593
2,126
308
4,595
261
38,863
664
431

29
4,060
1,121
810
3,523
543
120
819
12,516
1,282

Pastaza
Cabanas
Hiiumaa
Benishangul
Gumuz
Ogooue-Ivindo
Upper River
Upper East
San Marcos
Labe
Nord-Est
Lempira
Bihar
Jawa Central
Saint Ann

59.9
80.0
79.6
86.7
66.3
94.0
94.7
41.4
28.4
33.8

7.4
15.7
14.9
12.5
15.1
4.2
5.2
12.2
18.3
10.3

55
52
35
39
75
41
43
76
16
61

46,075
2,070
8,842
3,791
24,144
1,698
4,290
99,200
32,549
1,213

1
88
104
166
33
147
57
837
930
136

7.8
44.0
33.1
61.7
68.1
28.2
29.0
31.8
26.0
4.0

28.6
6.5
9.4
25.3
48.7
5.2
15.3
5.6
22.5
3.0

124
244
136
158
119
174
130
182
116
159

8,231
684
20,200
58,283
31,754
267
1,000
1,479
..
1,615

236
3,133
38
79
146
3,952
498
5,896
..
1,870

29.2
57.6
98.1
81.1
62.5
76.4
71.6
68.0
49.0
23.3

13.5
18.5
9.0
24.4
11.9
21.7
10.8
4.8
23.8
9.2

72
65
65
65
81
78
60
49
79
47

26,435
159,891
45,200
102,373
26,931
71,741
10,300
93,952
..
8,805

9
29
6
33
46
24
14
37
..
182

Mozambique
Namibia
Nepal
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Pakistan
Panama
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines

47.8
23.5
27.1
3.6
26.2
26.2
32.4
22.7
24.8
24.5
5.7

4.2
5.1
17.1
4.3
2.7
0.6
54.1
29.0
6.2
16.8
2.6

192
274
119
161
180
162
104
127
135
137
216

602
36,805
29,398
3,465
670
9,363
205,344
9,633
117
32,137
630

1,631
7
155
314
1,065
182
359
140
4,244
254
15,766

82.6
85.8
41.0
23.4
80.4
89.5
15.6
98.7
51.1
88.7
49.0

8.6
16.9
12.4
4.5
26.2
5.4
1.0
10.3
8.1
3.5
10.5

70
38
76
21
64
36
85
15
72
39
63

68,615
10,582
19,539
2,230
38,581
23,415
11,639
6,673
20,002
22,131
14,544

17
22
112
78
58
186
241
16
16
21
321

10.8

9.1

163

35,728

142

Al-Mafraq
Eastern Province
Naryn
Fianarantsoa
Northern Region
Sikasso
Guidimakha
Oaxaca
West
Gharb-ChrardaBeni Hssen
Inhambane
Ohangwena
Far Western
Esteli
Maradi
Jigawa
Azad Kashmir
Ngöbe Buglé
San Pedro
Huancavelica
Region V (Bicol
region)
Lubelskie

21.2

7.9

67

25,115

89

Armenia
Australia
Azerbaijan
Bangladesh
Belarus
Belize
Benin
Bolivia
Brazil
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Chad
Chile
Costa Rica
Côte d’Ivoire
Croatia

Djibouti
Dominican
Republic
Ecuador
El Salvador
Estonia
Ethiopia
Gabon
Gambia, The
Ghana
Guatemala
Guinea
Haiti
Honduras
India
Indonesia
Jamaica

Poland

Maputo (city)
Khomas
Western
Managua
Niamey
Bayelsa
Punjab
Panamá
Asuncion
Lima
National Capital
region (NCR)
Mazowieckie

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 338

10/10/08 10:39:35 AM

339

Selected indicators

Leading area: defined as the area with the highest measure of welfare
(income or consumption or gdp) per capita

Area’s
number of poor
as percentage
Poverty of total country
Incidence
poor

Area’s
welfare
measure
as a % of
country’s
average
welfare
measure

Area
(km2)

Population
density
(number of
people per
km2)

1995–2006a

1995–2006a

1995–2006a

2007

latest census

Bucharest
Saint Petersburg

3.0
7.8

2.2
1.1

216
117

1,821
23,900

1,186
197

Prefecture de la
Ville de Kigali
Sierra Leone
Western Area
Slovak Republic Bratislava
South Africa
Gauteng

12.3

0.6

379

313

753

80.8
9.4
19.0

19.0
10.3
6.6

200
172
186

557
2,052
17,010

1,707
292
520

Sri Lanka
Tajikistan

Colombo
Dushanbe (City)

6.0
43.5

3.7
6.9

179
144

642
300

3,480
1,873

Tanzania
Thailand

Dar Es Salaam
Krung Thep Maha
Nakhon (Bangkok)
Lebap
Central
New Jersey
Capital
Ho Chi Minh city
Sana’a
Lusaka

19.1
0.5

4.3
1.2

188
174

1,393
1,569

1,793
13,016

28.5
22.3
8.7
15.0
5.3
16.6
52.0

17.4
17.1
1.9
13.6
1.0
4.2
10.0

116
146
129
126
241
184
170

93,800
..
20,168
9,880
2,090
380
21,898

11
..
429
518
2,409
4,827
64

Economy
Romania
Russian
Federation
Rwanda

Turkmenistan
Uganda
United States
Venezuela, RB
Vietnam
Yemen, Rep.
Zambia

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 339

Area name

Lagging area: defined as the area with the lowest measure of welfare
(income or consumption or gdp) per capita

Area’s
number of poor
as percentage
Poverty of total country
Incidence
poor

Area’s
welfare
measure
as a % of
country’s
average
welfare
measure

Area
(km2)

Population
density
(number of
people per
km2)

2007

latest census

1995–2006a

1995–2006a

1995–2006a

North-East
Republic Tyva

25.0
66.5

31.4
0.6

69
56

36,850
37,300

100
8

Gikongoro

77.2

8.0

70

1,974

237

Eastern
Presov
Northern Province
(Limpopo)
Monaragala
Khatlon
(Qurghonteppa)
Rukwa
Nong Bua Lam
Phu
Ahal
Northern
Mississippi
Zuliana
Lai Chau
Al Jawf
Western

80.0
9.7
77.0

23.5
14.0
18.0

65
73
46

15,553
8,981
123,910

76
88
40

37.0
73.3

4.0
44.8

51
79

7,133
24,600

56
87

36.4
35.2

3.8
2.1

68
39

68,635
3,859

17
125

34.8
63.3
21.0
25.2
79.8
40.8
89.0

12.4
29.9
1.5
15.7
1.7
2.7
9.4

79
54
73
83
46
71
59

95,400
..
123,515
63,100
9,065
39,500
126,386

6
..
23
56
65
12
6

Area name

10/10/08 10:39:36 AM

340

Table A4

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

International integration
People
Countries
for which
Countries
this
that need a country’s
visa to visit residents
this country need a visa
(number) (number)

Economy
Afghanistan
Albania
Algeria
American Samoa
Andorra
Angola
Antigua and Barbuda
Argentina
Armenia
Aruba
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas, The
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belarus
Belgium
Belize
Benin
Bermuda
Bhutan
Bolivia
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Botswana
Brazil
Brunei Darussalam
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Cape Verde
Cayman Islands
Central African Republic
Chad
Channel Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Comoros
Congo, Dem. Rep.
Congo, Rep.
Costa Rica
Cote d’Ivoire
Croatia
Cuba
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Denmark
Djibouti
Dominica
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Egypt, Arab Rep.
El Salvador
Equatorial Guinea
Eritrea
Estonia
Ethiopia
Faeroe Islands
Fiji
Finland
France
French Polynesia
Gabon
Gambia, The
Georgia

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 340

2004

2004

192
142
183
192
132
191
105
124
162
..
161
132
181
119
140
19
72
179
132
120
167
..
191
140
154
139
140
157
147
175
191
191
184
149
174
121
173
181
..
114
191
64
192
190
169
125
169
131
169
137
136
132
192
0
130
27
60
120
191
190
132
190
..
94
132
132
..
174
41
131

168
159
157
156
89
162
121
88
144
..
59
57
143
119
139
155
113
141
54
127
144
..
153
110
154
138
85
89
103
147
163
159
157
57
145
156
153
154
..
84
161
150
158
162
151
100
145
105
153
80
95
53
159
130
152
139
156
108
159
163
98
163
..
131
55
54
..
156
135
143

Ideas

Cost of
obtaining
International
a passport migration stock
relative to
(% of
GDP per
foreigners)
capita (%)
(%)

International
voice traffic
(incoming
and outgoing,
minutes per
person)
(minutes)

Trade

International
Telephone
Internet
average cost
bandwith
of call to the Total trade
Index of
(bits per
US (US$ per as share of shipping
person)
three minutes)
GDP
difficulties
(bits)
(US$)
(%)
(Index)

Average
tariffs and
Share of
custom
trade with
duties (% neighboring
of import countries (%
value)
of total trade)
(%)
(%)

2005

2005

2000–06a

2000–06a

2000–06a

2005–06a

2008

2005

..
2.2
..
..
..
4.9
0.2
0.7
0.0
..
0.4
0.3
2.5
0.2
0.3
5.2
0.7
..
0.3
0.4
8.6
..
..
6.7
7.0
0.1
1.3

0.1
2.6
0.7
35.0
79.1
0.4
22.0
3.9
7.8
24.4
20.2
15.0
2.2
9.8
40.7
0.7
9.7
12.2
6.9
13.9
2.1
29.6
1.5
1.3
1.0
4.5
0.3
33.2
1.3
5.8
1.3
2.2
0.8
18.9
2.2
35.8
1.9
4.5
45.8
1.4
0.0
0.3
11.2
0.9
7.2
10.2
13.1
14.9
0.7
15.3
4.4
7.2
2.6
6.3
1.7
0.9
0.2
0.3
1.2
0.3
15.0
0.8
11.1
2.0
3.0
10.6
13.1
17.7
15.3
4.3

0.6
160.0
16.9
..
..
6.7
596.4
32.5
127.8
..
213.8
264.7
32.6
585.0
587.1
6.4
565.2
64.0
316.3
178.2
6.4

0.2
3.8
4.8
..
6344.4
11.5
16588.0
689.9
22.5
1794.6
11593.4
6633.5
35.7
278.4
564.3
8.0
2055.3
191.7
11278.5
604.8
5.4
8699.1
33.9
43.3
39.6
16.1
149.9
1453.1
1756.1
15.0
0.5
1.3
8.7
6731.9
46.3
..
0.4
0.5
..
779.6
195.7
560.2
3.3
0.1
0.3
176.2
3.0
1073.7
13.8
593.8
2169.8
34796.1
56.0
419.8
6.1
227.2
126.4
22.9
34.7
1.7
11174.9
0.1
3312.6
87.0
4311.2
3285.5
887.2
152.6
5.6
7.2

0.39
1.34
2.08
..
..
3.23
..
..
2.42
..
0.68
0.71
4.18
..
1.74
2.02
1.95
1.90
0.75
2.59
4.80
..
0.66
1.89
3.62
2.88
0.71
..
0.57
1.14
2.45
2.94
..
..
6.08
..
1.99
9.11
2.90
2.18
2.90
..
..
..
5.39
1.93
2.25
..
7.49
0.33
1.06
0.89
4.73
..
0.22
1.75
1.45
2.40
..
3.59
0.90
4.01
..
2.84
1.80
0.84
3.67
2.77
1.81
0.68

68.1
74.2
71.4
..
..
111.7
130.8
43.9
58.5
..
42.1
109.7
111.3
..
127.0
44.2
117.8
124.1
172.8
125.4
39.6
..
76.8
75.1
72.3
83.8
26.4
96.2
147.0
35.8
58.7
144.6
52.7
72.0
74.6
..
35.5
97.3
..
76.3
72.4
47.3
47.3
70.4
137.0
105.5
92.3
104.6
..
..
148.3
100.8
97.2
107.2
73.5
67.5
61.5
74.0
144.7
58.1
169.3
57.5
..
127.6
82.3
55.1
29.1
89.1
110.2
89.9

174
70
114
..
..
164
55
107
118
..
34
12
173
..
..
112

11.2
7.6
3.0
..
..
..
..
15.8
3.3
..
1.8
0.0
,,
55.0
3.7
32.6
8.0
7.2

0.7
12.7
50.9
..
11.4
0.3
..
..
17.7
60.2
..
1.5
2.9
1.5
..
125.0
8.5
0.4
..
2.0
..
0.3
0.1
0.4
..
1.0
..
3.6
1.9
0.4
..
..
0.2
31.1
..
1.6
0.2
0.2
..
..
6.0
..

40.9
48.7
..
207.6
74.1
11.7
142.7
71.7
10.8
1.6
9.5
8.8
438.7
139.5
1630.2
2.3
2.0
..
48.3
7.3
68.2
33.1
5.3
..
126.8
16.9
231.2
30.6
693.2
94.8
318.0
26.7
..
218.5
215.6
30.1
409.9
..
8.7
109.0
3.5
..
112.1
178.3
182.8
..
74.0
..
57.5

137
48
116
124
..
149
115
53
145
93
36
89
170
167
139
132
39
51
..
172
157
..
43
42
105
119
154
171
54
147
96
..
..
30
2
66
80
35
131
26
68
133
159
7
150
..
111
5
25
..
106
73
64

24.5
..
1.5
2.1
0.0
..
..
..
2.4
12.7
..
21.6
..
1.3
..
..
19.4
..
..
1.6
–16.2
8.8
..
27.4
6.6
5.0
43.6
1.6
..
0.7
0.0
..
..
..
13.9
6.4
6.0
..
..
0.0
26.6
..
15.9
0.0
0.0
..
..
..
4.0

Average
2000–2005
..
71.9
10.5
0.0
0.0
..
17.4
35.9
10.4
5.4
0.0
81.3
26.7
0.0
23.7
8.9
22.6
68.9
73.8
14.1
20.4
0.0
..
50.8
57.9
50.2
13.2
7.3
25.5
40.7
14.8
10.2
12.4
73.0
1.1
0.0
16.1
0.0
12.4
15.4
19.2
0.0
..
..
7.6
20.2
50.0
0.4
8.5
61.8
74.9
..
30.5
..
15.4
5.4
29.1
..
4.5
54.6
6.6
3.1
1.3
65.4
62.4
0.0
2.4
4.1
39.4

10/10/08 10:39:36 AM

341

Selected indicators

People
Countries
for which
Countries
this
that need a country’s
visa to visit residents
this country need a visa
(number) (number)
Economy
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Greenland
Grenada
Guam
Guatemala
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Guyana
Haiti
Honduras
Hong Kong, China
Hungary
Iceland
India
Indonesia
Iran, Islamic Rep.
Iraq
Ireland
Isle of Man
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kiribati
Korea, Dem. Rep.
Korea, Rep.
Kuwait
Kyrgyz Republic
Lao PDR
Latvia
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Libya
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Macao, China
Macedonia, FYR
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Maldives
Mali
Malta
Marshall Islands
Mauritania
Mauritius
Mayotte
Mexico
Micronesia, Fed. Sts.
Moldova
Monaco
Mongolia
Montenegro
Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar
Namibia
Nepal
Netherlands
Netherlands Antilles
New Caledonia
New Zealand
Nicaragua

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 341

Ideas

Cost of
obtaining
International
a passport migration stock
relative to
(% of
GDP per
foreigners)
capita (%)
(%)

International
voice traffic
(incoming
and outgoing,
minutes per
person)
(minutes)

Trade

International
Telephone
Internet
average cost
bandwith
of call to the Total trade
Index of
(bits per
US (US$ per as share of shipping
person)
three minutes)
GDP
difficulties
(bits)
(US$)
(%)
(Index)

Average
tariffs and
Share of
custom
trade with
duties (% neighboring
of import countries (%
value)
of total trade)
(%)
(%)

2004

2004

2005

2005

2000–06a

2000–06a

2000–06a

2005–06a

2008

2005

Average
2000–2005

132
171
132
..
11
..
118
171
176
158
4
128
42
132
132
189
162
188
..
107
..
123
132
80
137
61
175
21
168
192
89
154
144
192
132
100
127
176
177
117
132
132
0
148
0
123
23
3
172
132
162
169
88
..
139
0
149
132
174
..
134
0
192
141
0
132
..
..
146
38

54
142
56
..
127
..
110
146
150
127
157
110
89
85
59
160
148
166
..
57
..
88
55
126
56
159
141
140
133
163
78
135
143
158
98
169
135
151
163
74
100
55
122
141
156
139
63
134
148
73
144
141
131
..
92
146
141
88
155
..
147
158
161
145
158
56
..
..
59
116

0.3
1.4
0.4
1.0
..
..
1.8
..
..
0.6
..
3.4
0.2
0.3
0.2
3.6
1.9
..
..
0.3
..
0.3
0.2
1.4
0.2
..
..
1.2
..
..
0.3
..
..
11.8
..
4.0
1.5
..
..
..
0.4
0.0
..
..
..
..
1.7
..
..
0.3
..
8.7
0.5
..
1.2
2.5
..
..
..
..
2.1
..
2.3
1.0
26.3
0.2
..
..
0.2
3.0

12.3
7.5
8.8
21.4
10.2
66.9
0.4
4.5
1.2
0.1
0.4
0.4
43.2
3.1
7.8
0.5
0.1
2.9
0.1
14.1
48.6
38.4
4.3
0.7
1.6
41.1
16.5
1.0
2.6
0.2
1.1
65.8
5.6
0.4
19.5
16.4
0.3
1.5
10.5
33.7
4.8
38.0
55.9
6.0
0.3
2.2
6.5
1.0
0.3
2.6
2.6
2.1
1.7
..
0.6
3.2
11.4
75.8
0.4
6.4
0.4
2.1
0.2
7.1
3.0
10.0
26.5
18.4
15.7
0.5

190.8
20.1
181.8
..
624.5
..
194.7
6.8
8.9
118.3
..
96.4
1178.7
105.1
240.0
3.0
5.3
8.8
..
709.5
..
364.2
236.0
233.2
43.4
138.8
26.4
5.6
24.2
..
91.6
..
29.5
6.6
66.7
279.1
18.1
..
65.6
..
49.0
1399.1
497.2
63.3
1.3
4.8
87.9
91.2
7.4
222.4
76.5
20.3
149.8
..
174.0
80.8
109.9
..
4.8
..
65.1
12.7
2.8
58.0
5.6
310.8
..
215.0
361.1
61.7

6863.8
9.3
586.5
106.8
3976.0
..
55.5
0.2
1.2
48.7
16.7
6.0
13438.6
993.3
7289.6
24.3
6.8
53.2
..
5911.6
..
2455.4
2044.0
15822.2
1037.8
57.3
62.5
20.8
5.4
..
1027.8
347.9
38.9
3.5
3229.7
111.0
2.2
0.1
20.6
4298.0
2714.4
20459.0
6491.7
16.7
1.8
1.5
124.5
179.5
25.9
4729.1
26.2
29.6
153.2
..
109.0
54.5
147.4
..
13.3
..
377.1
0.9
1.9
17.8
4.6
20501.3
..
562.9
1106.7
1.1

0.43
0.39
1.09
2.41
..
..
1.21
4.61
..
..
2.15
2.52
0.77
1.01
0.84
1.19
2.79
0.55
..
0.71
..
0.59
0.79
0.87
1.63
1.44
..
3.00
8.82
..
0.76
1.51
5.40
1.11
1.63
2.19
3.28
..
..
..
1.55
15.96
1.12
..
0.59
3.56
0.71
5.86
12.28
0.77
..
..
1.59
..
0.83
6.00
1.46
..
4.92
..
1.69
1.17
0.17
4.28
2.04
0.32
..
3.13
1.30
3.15

84.7
103.0
45.6
..
109.0
..
46.2
67.4
95.4
211.8
57.3
107.3
399.4
155.1
83.1
48.8
56.9
75.2
..
149.9
..
88.4
56.5
108.8
27.3
146.6
91.6
62.2
133.3
..
85.3
98.0
115.7
78.2
108.6
63.6
149.0
99.6
84.1
..
129.8
326.6
150.5
118.3
70.7
46.4
217.0
178.1
72.3
179.6
..
113.7
127.1
..
65.1
..
139.2
..
125.0
128.9
71.4
88.9
..
110.0
45.3
140.6
..
..
58.2
92.1

10
61
65
..
52
..
116
102
109
101
153
103
3
45
11
79
41
135
175
20
..
8
62
92
18
59
178
148
97
..
13
99
177
158
19
83
129
98
..
..
23
32
..
72
126
161
21
110
162
..
46
152
17
..
76
85
122
..
168
113
67
140
..
144
151
14
..
..
16
87

28.5
0.0
..
..
..
8.9
..
..
..
..
6.3
..
0.0
1.1
14.6
3.0
5.5
..
0.1
..
0.7
..
7.7
..
10.4
6.0
10.2
..
..
3.4
1.3
13.2
..
0.6
7.6
49.5
..
..
..
0.5
..
..
..
24.8
..
5.6
23.6
3.8
0.1
..
..
16.8
..
4.1
..
4.1
..
5.7
..
9.4
..
2.3
31.8
18.2
0.8
..
..
1.7
4.6

63.6
10.7
56.4
0.0
25.9
0.0
21.4
10.1
..
25.2
..
20.6
49.1
26.5
0.7
9.9
4.1
4.8
..
60.6
0.0
0.9
59.4
0.8
0.0
31.8
34.4
13.8
0.0
..
0.0
..
35.8
..
55.0
9.9
66.4
..
8.6
..
48.0
89.1
39.9
45.8
0.0
16.4
22.0
10.7
25.1
19.5
0.0
2.1
0.0
0.0
72.3
0.0
39.7
..
64.7
..
16.6
43.7
..
63.1
60.5
56.4
0.0
0.4
0.0
28.4

10/10/08 10:39:38 AM

342

Table A4

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

International integration—continued
People
Countries
for which
Countries
this
that need a country’s
visa to visit residents
this country need a visa
(number) (number)

Economy
Niger
Nigeria
Northern Mariana Islands
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Palau
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Puerto Rico
Qatar
Romania
Russian Federation
Rwanda
Samoa
San Marino
Sao Tome and Princip
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Slovak Republic
Slovenia
Solomon Islands
Somalia
South Africa
Spain
Sri Lanka
St. Kitts and Nevis
St. Lucia
St. Vincent and the Grenadines
Sudan
Suriname
Swaziland
Sweden
Switzerland
Syrian Arab Republic
Taiwan, China
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand
Timor-Leste
Togo
Tonga
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
United States
Uruguay
Uzbekistan
Vanuatu
Venezuela, RB
Vietnam
Virgin Islands (U.S.)
West Bank and Gaza
Yemen, Rep.
Zambia
Zimbabwe

Ideas

Cost of
obtaining
International
a passport migration stock
relative to
(% of
GDP per
foreigners)
capita (%)
(%)

International
voice traffic
(incoming
and outgoing,
minutes per
person)
(minutes)

Trade

International
Telephone
Internet
average cost
bandwith
of call to the Total trade
Index of
(bits per
US (US$ per as share of shipping
person)
three minutes)
GDP
difficulties
(bits)
(US$)
(%)
(Index)

Average
tariffs and
Share of
custom
trade with
duties (% neighboring
of import countries (%
value)
of total trade)
(%)
(%)

2004

2004

2005

2005

2000–06a

2000–06a

2000–06a

2005–06a

2008

2005

167
174
157
132
128
184
0
130
114
163
97
44
132
132
..
156
145
183
180
0
132
0
187
151
..
0
124
32
131
132
123
192
120
132
114
92
130
122
190
171
137
132
119
160
..
..
35
136
..
0
142
47
126
118
174
0
181
155
104
158
134
184
106
131
185
..
..
145
18
117

144
149
153
56
141
165
148
107
138
103
135
144
86
57
..
136
107
134
156
129
82
155
142
146
..
131
139
66
95
92
130
165
118
55
156
120
121
124
166
137
138
54
57
163
..
..
142
146
..
148
135
119
142
126
148
145
139
136
55
52
98
148
137
95
160
..
..
161
142
141

19.8
10.0
..
0.3
0.2
4.2
0.7

0.9
0.7
6.5
7.4
24.4
2.1
15.1
3.2
0.4
2.9
0.1
0.5
1.8
7.2
10.7
78.3
0.6
8.4
1.3
5.0
33.4
4.8
27.5
2.8
6.4
5.8
2.2
42.4
2.3
8.4
0.7
3.4
2.4
11.0
1.9
9.3
5.3
8.7
1.8
1.2
4.0
12.4
22.3
5.2
..
4.7
2.1
1.6
0.6
3.0
1.1
2.9
0.4
1.8
4.6
1.8
14.5
70.9
9.0
12.9
2.5
4.8
0.5
3.8
0.0
33.7
46.3
1.3
2.4
3.9

2.0
2.3
..
192.9
189.1
10.5
..
54.9
8.0
31.3
99.1
28.3
60.6
178.1
..
842.9
49.1
15.3
..
149.7
6448.4
51.3
215.8
39.4
..
..
..
1045.4
90.0

2.3
1.1
..
9304.8
173.6
4.6
..
286.6
1.0
83.1
366.6
38.0
560.2
829.0
511.2
943.6
1503.2
100.3
7.4
49.0
5419.6
25.8
126.1
102.7
94.6
307.3
0.1
7052.4
2912.6
1254.7
17.1
0.4
18.8
2775.7
25.1
42.5
94.9
25.0
5.4
439.3
0.9
17468.5
9609.1
8.0
6569.5
0.3
0.4
156.2
..
15.6
20.1
370.2
126.4
630.7
15.7
4.4
17.3
2371.4
13062.0
3306.6
484.0
8.7
23.2
50.3
84.1
414.0
198.7
0.3
10.9
4.2

8.77
1.49
..
0.31
1.87
1.03
..
3.64
4.32
0.90
1.80
1.20
1.35
1.04
..
1.95
0.82
2.03
2.43
1.36
..
5.11
2.40
1.02
..
3.78
..
0.69
1.06
0.65
..
..
0.79
0.60
2.11
..
..
3.97
39.18
1.33
2.97
0.41
0.32
4.81
0.51
7.84
3.17
0.67
..
3.98
1.09
2.19
2.28
2.40
..
3.21
1.65
1.73
0.77
..
0.52
13.95
7.45
0.84
1.95
..
1.17
2.39
1.41
4.36

38.9
91.1
..
75.0
99.2
38.6
153.5
144.5
134.8
115.2
48.5
94.0
82.0
70.0
181.2
101.7
78.5
55.1
43.2
78.1
..
..
92.9
69.8
73.4
244.5
59.4
473.5
176.0
139.1
102.2
..
63.1
58.4
74.8
113.5
117.6
125.0
42.8
76.3
167.5
94.5
89.0
75.0
134.0
80.7
55.1
143.5
..
83.9
54.3
108.0
108.7
64.1
126.2
44.4
97.3
170.6
61.6
26.8
60.2
63.4
100.3
57.6
150.3
..
85.4
79.4
67.8
129.8

163
138
..
4
104
94
121
9
82
123
71
57
40
31
95
..
38
155
166
108
..
91
33
136
58
84
130
1
90
69
74
..
134
47
60
22
88
75
143
86
146
6
37
127
29
176
100
50
78
81
44
49
28
56
..
141
120
24
27
15
125
165
142
156
63
..
77
128
160
169

..
..
..
0.2
2.8
13.0
..
8.6
26.4
8.2
5.7
20.4
0.4
0.0
..
3.2
3.0
29.2
..
..
1.7
..
..
33.1
..
10.7
27.0
0.1
0.0
0.1
..
..
4.2
0.0
14.6
31.3
..
..
..
..
47.7
..
1.1
..
..
11.1
..
6.2
..
..
..
4.8
6.2
1.1
..
20.5
4.3
..
..
1.1
5.1
..
..
4.9
..
..
..
..
9.0
..

5.3
2.6
0.8
0.5
0.4
..
..
1.1
0.4
41.5
2.1
..
..
0.8
4.1
..
1.1
..
0.2
0.5
0.3
..
..
0.7
0.1
2.4
0.2
0.5
0.6
..
..
0.3
0.2
0.2
..
..
13.4
13.4
1.0
..
..
2.4
0.3
1.1
8.9
..
..
2.7
..
0.2
0.2
..
..
3.4
0.5
2.3
..
..
..
3.7
..

23.2
..
27.6
173.3
27.9
571.6
217.9
288.5
12.2
276.7
47.5
664.8
44.0
292.3
10.4
1.4
14.1
..
21.5
..
375.7
72.6
27.1
6.0
3.1
56.6
..
262.2
279.5
120.7
12.4
..
23.1
8.4
..
65.7
12.0
6.9
24.9

Average
2000–2005
20.7
4.4
0.0
18.8
32.1
11.1
0.0
9.7
1.7
41.4
21.5
0.0
52.7
28.2
0.0
9.2
18.7
33.1
43.2
6.5
..
3.1
3.2
9.1
..
0.0
2.3
14.7
66.8
67.1
0.0
..
2.9
64.7
0.6
15.5
22.8
33.8
5.2
4.4
80.0
25.9
61.4
16.0
10.8
..
8.5
7.5
..
28.1
0.0
10.3
26.3
9.3
..
26.1
40.6
..
55.2
30.7
36.2
..
0.0
14.6
11.7
0.0
7.6
14.1
53.9

a. Data are for the latest year available in the period shown.

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 342

10/10/08 10:39:39 AM

343

Selected indicators

Table A5

Other indicators
Terrain characteristics

Geography and people
Population living
Population living
at less than 25 kms
at less than
from an international
75 kms from an
border
international border
(%)
(%)

plains
(% of total
land area)

lowlands
(% of total
land area)

plateaus
(% of total
land area)

hills
(% of total
land area)

mountains
(% of total
land area)

Economy

2007

2007

2007

2007

2007

2000

Afghanistan
Albania
Algeria
American Samoa
Andorra
Angola
Antigua and Barbuda
Argentina
Armenia
Aruba
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas, The
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belarus
Belgium
Belize
Benin
Bermuda
Bhutan
Bolivia
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Botswana
Brazil
Brunei Darussalam
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Cape Verde
Cayman Islands
Central African Republic
Chad
Channel Islands
Chile
China
Colombia
Comoros
Congo, Dem. Rep.
Congo, Rep.
Costa Rica
Cote d’Ivoire
Croatia
Cuba
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Denmark
Djibouti
Dominica
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Egypt, Arab Rep.
El Salvador
Equatorial Guinea
Eritrea
Estonia
Ethiopia
Faeroe Islands
Fiji
Finland
France
French Polynesia
Gabon
Gambia, The
Georgia

0.9
0.0
12.4
0.0
0.0
16.9
0.0
33.0
0.0
35.4
29.7
0.0
0.7
100.0
57.3
67.1
0.0
37.8
19.2
1.4
13.3
100.0
0.0
26.3
0.0
49.4
21.1
0.3
0.0
34.4
0.0
6.5
2.2
6.7
0.7
100.0
17.6
35.9
0.0
0.0
3.9
24.0
0.0
17.1
29.1
0.0
0.0
6.8
0.0
5.8
0.0
30.1
0.0
0.0
0.1
7.4
5.7
0.0
0.0
0.1
39.8
0.7
0.0
0.0
2.0
3.9
0.0
5.2
100.0
0.0

0.0
0.4
4.2
100.0
0.0
3.0
100.0
9.4
0.0
64.6
23.3
0.2
31.2
0.0
42.7
20.3
100.0
58.7
45.5
51.5
15.5
0.0
0.4
8.4
6.0
0.0
20.8
75.7
21.9
0.1
0.0
74.3
2.0
20.8
40.9
0.0
0.0
0.0
100.0
9.0
10.2
23.1
0.0
0.3
1.2
1.9
0.1
25.3
41.3
80.1
44.1
69.9
18.6
0.0
31.2
6.1
27.8
1.1
20.6
11.6
60.2
0.3
100.0
43.2
71.7
41.0
9.2
21.3
0.0
0.0

8.7
0.0
51.7
0.0
0.0
47.0
0.0
8.7
0.0
0.0
33.5
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
3.5
0.0
7.7
65.2
0.0
0.0
14.8
0.0
48.5
37.6
0.0
0.0
65.6
15.9
0.0
44.7
27.9
0.0
0.0
78.5
42.4
0.0
0.0
8.9
9.7
12.4
61.1
58.6
0.0
0.1
60.8
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
9.7
41.4
0.0
18.6
0.0
0.0
14.1
0.0
0.0
6.3
3.0
6.2
52.0
0.0
0.0

0.3
33.6
5.1
0.0
0.0
6.0
0.0
11.0
0.0
0.0
8.8
26.7
5.6
0.0
0.0
10.8
0.0
0.0
35.3
39.5
6.0
0.0
16.2
13.1
23.0
0.0
8.0
0.0
45.4
0.0
0.0
17.9
20.7
21.3
31.7
0.0
0.0
3.7
0.0
26.9
12.7
12.5
26.2
1.0
8.2
62.0
72.9
6.4
25.7
14.2
55.9
0.0
30.0
100.0
33.2
28.1
16.4
52.5
7.7
14.6
0.0
4.8
0.0
56.8
19.2
30.1
84.5
15.7
0.0
6.9

90.1
66.0
26.6
0.0
100.0
27.1
0.0
37.9
100.0
0.0
4.8
73.1
62.5
0.0
0.0
1.8
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
83.4
37.3
71.0
2.1
12.5
23.9
32.7
0.0
84.1
1.4
30.4
23.2
26.8
0.0
3.9
18.0
0.0
64.1
64.2
30.7
61.4
20.5
2.8
36.1
27.0
0.6
32.9
0.0
0.0
0.0
51.4
0.0
35.5
48.7
8.7
46.4
53.1
73.8
0.0
80.1
0.0
0.0
0.8
21.9
0.0
5.7
0.0
93.0

11.2
29.2
3.3
0.0
100.0
5.2
0.0
5.0
70.5
0.0
0.0
38.7
26.9
0.0
0.0
28.2
0.0
18.3
53.4
37.9
42.7
0.0
54.8
5.0
40.5
34.2
1.0
98.9
19.1
14.4
60.9
18.1
17.5
17.6
0.0
0.0
31.4
23.6
0.0
3.3
1.1
4.7
0.0
24.9
50.5
8.2
11.3
68.1
1.3
0.0
38.3
2.0
86.3
0.0
3.7
5.2
0.2
25.4
35.6
16.7
13.7
3.0
0.0
0.0
4.7
12.0
0.0
13.2
92.2
21.8

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 343

Population
living at less than
25 kms from a
coastline
(%)

Population
living at less than
75 kms from a
coastline
(%)

2000

2000

2000

37.1
83.2
13.0
0.0
100.0
11.5
0.0
10.4
100.0
0.0
0.0
97.4
61.9
0.0
0.0
78.8
0.0
53.5
100.0
94.2
96.0
0.0
99.9
22.5
90.1
66.2
2.4
100.0
80.5
42.2
100.0
57.0
40.2
61.8
0.0
0.0
58.5
51.5
0.0
48.9
3.7
11.1
0.0
46.5
91.8
29.4
30.0
98.1
11.4
0.0
88.0
9.1
100.0
0.0
17.3
15.8
0.5
96.7
77.9
56.2
48.1
9.1
0.0
0.0
14.2
23.2
0.0
32.7
100.0
91.7

0.0
41.9
35.8
100.0
0.0
23.0
100.0
33.3
0.0
100.0
69.1
0.0
0.0
100.0
100.0
25.3
100.0
0.0
18.1
57.9
27.7
100.0
0.0
0.0
0.8
0.0
25.4
80.8
9.4
0.0
0.0
4.9
15.8
20.6
100.0
100.0
0.0
0.0
100.0
26.2
11.6
11.5
100.0
0.6
19.8
22.1
26.0
31.2
63.5
90.1
0.0
94.8
79.8
100.0
61.2
33.7
16.4
26.7
41.3
11.1
64.4
0.0
100.0
88.3
48.1
20.8
100.0
44.9
74.2
15.2

0.0
87.2
63.4
100.0
0.0
26.9
100.0
42.8
0.0
100.0
87.5
0.0
0.0
100.0
100.0
48.1
100.0
0.0
69.9
94.4
46.0
100.0
0.0
0.0
12.4
0.0
46.5
99.3
15.8
0.0
0.0
12.1
20.8
23.1
100.0
100.0
0.0
0.0
100.0
53.1
21.8
24.9
100.0
1.8
21.5
97.7
33.7
36.3
100.0
100.0
0.0
100.0
99.1
100.0
96.7
49.0
36.9
94.7
59.5
51.8
78.5
0.0
100.0
100.0
67.4
36.2
100.0
53.0
85.7
28.1

10/10/08 10:39:39 AM

344

Table A5

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Other indicators—continued
Terrain characteristics

Geography and people
Population living
Population living
at less than 25 kms
at less than
from an international
75 kms from an
border
international border
(%)
(%)

plains
(% of total
land area)

lowlands
(% of total
land area)

plateaus
(% of total
land area)

hills
(% of total
land area)

mountains
(% of total
land area)

Economy

2007

2007

2007

2007

2007

2000

Germany
Ghana
Greece
Greenland
Grenada
Guam
Guatemala
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Guyana
Haiti
Honduras
Hong Kong, China
Hungary
Iceland
India
Indonesia
Iran, Islamic Rep.
Iraq
Ireland
Isle of Man
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kiribati
Korea, Dem. Rep.
Korea, Rep.
Kuwait
Kyrgyz Republic
Lao PDR
Latvia
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Libya
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Macao, China
Macedonia, FYR
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Maldives
Mali
Malta
Marshall Islands
Mauritania
Mauritius
Mayotte
Mexico
Micronesia, Fed. Sts.
Moldova
Monaco
Mongolia
Montenegro
Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar
Namibia
Nepal
Netherlands
Netherlands Antilles
New Caledonia
New Zealand
Nicaragua

3.1
15.2
0.0
0.3
0.2
0.0
0.3
5.9
71.9
9.7
0.0
2.1
0.0
15.8
0.0
13.2
13.3
1.1
19.2
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.1
0.0
22.7
9.4
100.0
0.0
0.0
7.9
0.0
0.0
8.5
0.0
0.0
2.1
23.5
0.0
3.5
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.3
0.0
2.9
99.0
59.3
0.0
96.2
56.0
0.0
0.0
5.1
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
1.3
6.5
2.8
22.4
0.0
40.0
74.1
10.9
0.0
7.9

45.2
41.8
7.4
3.0
99.8
100.0
19.1
11.9
24.6
49.6
0.8
12.4
100.0
66.6
9.6
17.8
30.5
4.3
27.2
100.0
100.0
31.1
14.5
23.3
17.3
0.0
22.4
10.3
0.0
19.4
35.2
70.9
0.0
11.0
91.5
0.0
0.0
45.9
11.4
0.0
96.5
0.0
100.0
0.0
20.2
0.3
48.2
0.0
2.4
100.0
0.0
13.4
5.3
100.0
12.9
100.0
85.4
0.0
0.0
0.0
4.8
30.2
18.8
0.9
5.5
58.3
25.9
4.7
19.1
53.2

4.6
24.0
0.0
33.6
0.0
0.0
7.6
23.7
0.0
16.8
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
27.4
0.1
0.3
35.1
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
53.3
27.4
10.7
0.0
0.0
0.0
21.2
0.2
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
31.8
52.8
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
3.8
0.0
0.0
0.0
36.6
0.0
0.0
29.6
0.0
0.0
5.4
0.0
14.6
0.0
14.3
0.0
6.7
6.6
0.0
26.4
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

34.3
19.0
50.6
8.1
0.0
0.0
22.8
20.9
3.5
18.7
67.1
40.0
0.0
16.4
43.2
22.8
32.3
4.9
12.0
0.0
0.0
49.1
49.8
76.7
64.6
9.8
7.9
3.3
0.0
34.5
52.5
0.0
0.0
25.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
17.1
2.6
0.0
0.0
100.0
0.0
0.0
31.0
6.0
29.5
0.0
1.8
0.0
0.0
1.1
94.2
0.0
14.7
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
1.3
17.8
28.4
31.7
3.0
19.5
1.8
0.0
84.5
28.3
23.5

12.8
0.0
41.9
54.9
0.0
0.0
50.2
37.6
0.0
5.1
32.2
45.4
0.0
1.2
47.2
18.7
23.8
89.4
6.4
0.0
0.0
19.8
35.7
0.0
18.0
36.9
19.6
66.4
0.0
46.1
12.3
0.0
99.8
63.7
0.0
100.0
100.0
3.2
9.7
100.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
100.0
44.7
93.7
19.5
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
62.0
0.0
0.0
100.0
85.7
98.7
69.5
28.3
46.6
47.4
75.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
52.6
15.4

15.2
14.7
7.1
0.0
0.0
0.0
18.0
25.0
26.0
10.2
16.3
19.8
49.4
30.5
0.0
5.6
0.1
6.0
9.2
7.5
0.0
90.6
6.8
0.0
0.0
33.6
14.2
8.5
0.0
12.8
1.3
13.7
55.3
49.0
19.4
35.0
60.5
28.2
1.2
100.0
28.7
100.0
100.0
67.5
0.0
34.3
8.2
0.0
12.6
0.0
0.0
22.4
0.0
0.0
5.8
0.0
52.7
100.0
5.8
4.6
8.9
3.5
26.8
44.1
33.2
0.0
0.0
0.0
10.6

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 344

Population
living at less than
25 kms from a
coastline
(%)

Population
living at less than
75 kms from a
coastline
(%)

2000

2000

2000

52.0
33.3
27.2
0.0
0.0
0.0
57.2
63.3
96.5
23.3
63.3
77.6
100.0
91.4
0.0
16.1
0.7
21.3
28.7
31.4
0.0
100.0
28.4
0.0
0.0
100.0
45.8
32.0
0.0
28.9
37.3
100.0
94.9
91.3
94.3
100.0
100.0
55.2
4.8
100.0
87.1
100.0
100.0
100.0
0.0
98.8
25.1
0.0
38.1
0.0
0.0
46.8
0.0
0.0
8.0
0.0
100.0
100.0
18.1

7.3
25.9
81.4
100.0
100.0
100.0
5.6
19.0
60.9
56.9
80.9
22.0
100.0
0.0
99.2
10.3
52.2
2.2
0.7
73.4
100.0
66.4
45.2
91.3
69.3
1.5
0.0
6.1
100.0
43.9
62.3
88.5
0.0
0.0
50.0
84.3
0.0
39.7
73.6
0.0
9.1
0.0
100.0
0.0
23.2
0.0
59.0
100.0
0.0
100.0
100.0
27.0
100.0
100.0
11.2
100.0
0.0
100.0
0.0

12.6
39.9
96.4
100.0
100.0
100.0
28.5
26.4
86.5
81.5
99.8
46.1
100.0
0.0
100.0
19.7
90.4
5.5
5.1
98.0
100.0
95.2
68.3
100.0
95.3
1.8
0.0
7.5
100.0
89.2
70.7
97.7
0.0
0.0
73.5
100.0
0.0
54.7
86.5
0.0
14.8
0.0
100.0
0.0
45.0
0.0
95.6
100.0
0.0
100.0
100.0
32.6
100.0
100.0
23.5
100.0
0.0
100.0
0.0

13.2
34.6
15.2
54.1
95.2
85.6
0.0
0.0
0.0
39.1

39.5
32.7
26.0
6.0
0.0
53.8
100.0
100.0
87.0
17.3

59.7
52.1
42.7
6.7
0.0
88.6
100.0
100.0
98.3
63.2

10/10/08 10:39:41 AM

345

Selected indicators

Terrain characteristics

Geography and people
Population living
Population living
at less than 25 kms
at less than
from an international
75 kms from an
border
international border
(%)
(%)

plains
(% of total
land area)

lowlands
(% of total
land area)

plateaus
(% of total
land area)

hills
(% of total
land area)

mountains
(% of total
land area)

Economy

2007

2007

2007

2007

2007

2000

Niger
Nigeria
Northern Mariana Islands
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Palau
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Puerto Rico
Qatar
Romania
Russian Federation
Rwanda
Samoa
San Marino
Sao Tome and Princip
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Slovak Republic
Slovenia
Solomon Islands
Somalia
South Africa
Spain
Sri Lanka
St. Kitts and Nevis
St. Lucia
St. Vincent and the
Grenadines
Sudan
Suriname
Swaziland
Sweden
Switzerland
Syrian Arab Republic
Taiwan, China
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand
Timor-Leste
Togo
Tonga
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
United States
Uruguay
Uzbekistan
Vanuatu
Venezuela, RB
Vietnam
Virgin Islands (U.S.)
West Bank and Gaza
Yemen, Rep.
Zambia
Zimbabwe

50.2
16.1
0.0
0.0
31.3
21.9
0.0
0.2
13.1
51.3
24.5
0.1
10.8
0.0
0.0
79.2
0.9
10.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
19.7
84.2
1.4
35.4
0.2
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.1
13.1
1.8
0.0
20.3
0.0
0.0

0.0
21.8
100.0
9.8
17.9
10.2
100.0
30.8
17.1
22.3
4.2
26.4
63.5
37.4
38.9
20.8
37.9
36.0
0.0
8.0
0.0
0.6
16.4
5.2
10.0
18.8
64.6
53.3
100.0
5.2
0.0
51.4
19.2
3.7
2.8
43.6
100.0
71.5

41.8
35.4
0.0
0.0
14.4
0.9
0.0
0.0
0.0
23.6
8.5
0.0
12.2
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.6
6.4
15.5
0.0
0.0
31.2
0.0
48.0
2.2
0.0
0.0
2.8
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
36.1
29.1
3.7
0.0
0.0
0.0

0.0
17.5
0.0
42.7
20.0
15.6
0.0
53.6
25.9
2.8
11.0
56.4
10.4
36.4
61.1
0.0
21.5
22.1
0.0
92.0
100.0
35.9
83.6
3.4
3.6
39.3
0.0
43.7
0.0
67.5
49.4
48.4
11.6
7.4
31.6
36.0
0.0
28.5

7.9
9.2
0.0
47.5
16.3
51.4
0.0
15.4
43.9
0.0
51.9
17.0
3.2
26.2
0.0
0.0
39.1
25.5
84.5
0.0
0.0
32.3
0.0
23.6
0.0
40.5
0.0
0.0
0.0
27.2
50.6
0.0
20.1
58.0
61.8
0.0
0.0
0.0

21.5
5.3
0.0
5.2
4.7
13.8
0.0
8.6
1.0
53.0
2.5
0.0
12.8
6.4
0.0
0.4
20.1
3.5
57.8
0.0
100.0
0.0
2.8
20.2
..
0.0
15.0
..
57.0
68.4
0.0
8.0
5.0
4.7
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

0.0
29.7
9.5
0.0
2.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
1.5
5.0
..
0.0
89.3
0.0
1.2
0.0
36.5
10.2
23.0
29.8
2.3
12.6
17.4
23.5
0.3
11.0
8.4
0.0
0.0
2.5
20.3
2.2

0.0
0.3
65.2
5.3
37.8
0.0
5.1
0.0
5.1
41.1
..
58.2
10.7
100.0
40.5
4.3
34.6
0.0
51.1
50.7
67.4
13.1
82.5
27.2
7.9
31.9
25.3
100.0
10.1
1.8
0.0
0.0

0.0
51.1
16.8
0.0
4.4
0.0
0.0
0.3
29.2
2.3
..
14.8
0.0
0.0
17.4
0.6
11.1
40.8
18.1
0.0
0.0
24.6
0.0
12.4
1.4
4.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
21.5
46.4
35.9

100.0
3.1
8.5
8.0
34.4
0.5
12.6
0.7
7.2
38.4
..
27.0
0.0
0.0
36.4
9.1
8.1
0.0
4.3
19.5
30.3
12.8
0.0
17.6
90.4
27.2
30.5
0.0
89.9
3.7
0.0
0.0

0.0
15.9
0.0
86.7
21.1
99.5
82.3
99.0
57.1
13.2
..
0.0
0.0
0.0
4.4
86.0
9.7
49.1
3.5
0.0
0.0
36.9
0.0
19.4
0.0
25.9
35.9
0.0
0.0
70.4
33.3
61.9

5.9
3.4
60.5
1.0
63.8
25.3
0.0
49.9
10.9
10.5
..
72.5
0.0
0.0
6.6
4.2
27.4
21.3
10.1
23.3
0.7
3.1
10.7
55.8
0.0
3.7
9.9
0.0
100.0
2.0
22.7
11.7

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 345

Population
living at less than
25 kms from a
coastline
(%)

Population
living at less than
75 kms from a
coastline
(%)

2000

2000

2000

55.5
24.4
0.0
48.7
15.1
42.2
0.0
17.2
3.4
73.1
11.8
0.0
44.0
32.4
0.0
18.6
61.5
13.0
100.0
0.0
100.0
0.0
9.0
39.9
..
0.0
68.1
..
100.0
100.0
0.0
25.2
14.8
15.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0

0.0
12.3
100.0
82.3
66.5
7.1
100.0
78.8
35.8
0.0
39.0
78.3
5.9
65.1
94.1
94.0
3.4
8.0
0.0

0.0
20.9
100.0
92.4
81.5
8.3
100.0
100.0
53.3
0.0
50.4
98.9
11.2
89.8
100.0
100.0
5.1
10.7
0.0

0.0
100.0
27.0
48.6
..
100.0
35.0
100.0
0.0
4.3
100.0
30.5
23.4
48.1
47.3
100.0
100.0
100.0

0.0
100.0
38.3
74.4
..
100.0
55.3
100.0
0.0
14.0
100.0
52.7
35.9
63.5
88.0
100.0
100.0
100.0

14.2
14.1
100.0
7.1
100.0
85.8
0.0
96.2
32.3
34.4
..
100.0
0.0
0.0
22.4
12.7
54.9
53.1
41.1
83.7
2.1
6.9
17.5
86.6
0.0
9.8
44.7
0.0
100.0
7.9
52.6
28.8

1.8
86.8
0.0
63.9
0.0
11.3
71.4
0.0
13.6
18.2
..
26.8
100.0
100.0
55.8
37.8
0.0
0.0
11.2
54.8
45.5
28.9
65.7
0.0
100.0
35.4
42.0
100.0
34.8
13.3
0.0
0.0

2.6
97.3
0.0
82.9
0.0
28.5
100.0
0.0
17.3
37.6
..
38.6
100.0
100.0
79.4
52.7
0.0
0.0
16.4
84.4
87.6
41.4
77.4
0.0
100.0
64.8
73.2
100.0
66.3
43.7
0.0
0.0

10/10/08 10:39:42 AM

346

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Sources and Definitions
Table A1

Geography and access

Column

Source

Notes

1

Location

CIA Factbook

This entry includes rounded latitude and longitude figures for the purpose of finding the
approximate geographic center of an entity and is based on the Gazetteer of Conventional Names,
Third Edition, August 1988, US Board on Geographic Names and on other sources.

2

Surface area (sq. km)

World Bank

3

Arable land (% of land area)

World Bank

4
5
6

Forest land (% of land area)
Coastline (kms)
Land boundaries (kms)

World Bank
CIA Factbook
CIA Factbook

7

Airports with paved runway
(number)

CIA Factbook

8
9

Ports and terminals (number)
Rail density (rail km per 100 km2)

CIA Factbook
CIA Factbook

10

Road density (road km per 100 km2)

11

National average distance to capital
city (kms)

WB and CIA
Factbook
WDR 2009 Team

Surface area is a country’s total area, including areas under inland bodies of water and some
coastal waterways. Food and Agriculture Organization, Production Yearbook and data files.
Arable land includes land defined by the FAO as land under temporary crops (double-cropped
areas are counted once), temporary meadows for mowing or for pasture, land under market or
kitchen gardens, and land temporarily fallow.
Forest area is land under natural or planted stands of trees, whether productive or not.
Total length of the boundary between the land area (including islands) and the sea.
Total length of all land boundaries and the individual lengths for each of the contiguous border
countries. When available, official lengths published by national statistical agencies are used.
Because surveying methods may differ, country border lengths reported by contiguous countries
may differ.
Total number of airports with paved runways (concrete or asphalt surfaces) by length. For airports
with more than one runway, only the longest runway is included according to the following five
groups - (1) over 3,047 m, (2) 2,438 to 3,047 m, (3) 1,524 to 2,437 m, (4) 914 to 1,523 m, and (5) under
914 m. Only airports with usable runways are included in this listing. Not all airports have facilities
for refueling, maintenance, or air traffic control.
Number of ports
Total route length of the railway network and of its component parts by gauge (broad, standard,
narrow, and dual) divided by the country size (in % terms).
Total length of the road network and includes the length of the paved and unpaved portions divided
by the country size (in % terms).
Population weighted average distance to the capital city

Column

Source

Notes

12

Agglomeration index

WDR 2009 Team

See chapter 1

13

% of urban population to total
population (2000)

UN

Urban population as a % of total population in 2000

14

% of urban population to total
population (2005)

UN

Urban population as a % of total population in 2005

15

% of urban population to total
population (2015)

UN

Urban population as a % of total population in 2015

16

Population density (number of
people per km2)

World Bank

Number of people per km2

17

Pop. in cities > 1 million (% of total
pop.)

World Bank

Proportion of the population living in cities bigger than 1 million people

18

% of Population in largest city (% of
urban pop.)

World Bank

Proportion of the population living in the largest city (as % of the urban population)

19

% of urban population with water
access

World Bank

Percentage of the urban population with reasonable access to an adequate amount of water from
an improved source, such as a household connection, public standpipe, borehole, protected well
or spring, and rainwater collection. Reasonable access is defined as the availability of at least 20
liters a person a day from a source within one kilometer of the dwelling.

20

% of rural population with water
access

World Bank

Percentage of the urban population with reasonable access to an adequate amount of water from
an improved source, such as a household connection, public standpipe, borehole, protected well
or spring, and rainwater collection. Reasonable access is defined as the availability of at least 20
liters a person a day from a source within one kilometer of the dwelling.

21

% of urban population with
sanitation services

World Bank

Percentage of the urban population with at least adequate access to excreta disposal facilities that
can effectively prevent human, animal, and insect contact with excreta. Improved facilities range
from simple but protected pit latrines to flush toilets with a sewerage connection. To be effective,
facilities must be correctly constructed and properly maintained.

22

% of rural population with sanitation
services

World Bank

Percentage of the rural population with at least adequate access to excreta disposal facilities that
can effectively prevent human, animal, and insect contact with excreta. Improved facilities range
from simple but protected pit latrines to flush toilets with a sewerage connection. To be effective,
facilities must be correctly constructed and properly maintained.

Table A2

Urbanization

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 346

10/10/08 10:39:43 AM

347

Selected indicators

Table A3

Territorial development

Column

Source

Notes

23

Leading area: Area name

WDR 2009 Team

Name of the leading area. Leading area is defined as the area with the highest measure of welfare
(income or consumption or gdp) per capita

24

Leading area: Poverty Incidence

WDR 2009 Team

The poverty incidence is the proportion of the population living below the poverty line

25

Leading area: Poor in area as % of
total country poor

WDR 2009 Team

Proportion of the country’s poor residing in the leading area

26

Leading area: Welfare measure in
area (as a % of country’s average
welfare measure )

WDR 2009 Team

Leading measure of welfare (income, consumption or gdp) per capita, relative to the national
measure of welfare (income, consumption or gdp) per capita

27

Leading area: Area (km2)

Statoids

Surface area of the leading area

28

Leading area: Population density
(number of people per km2)

Statoids

People per km2 in the leading area

29

Lagging area: Area name

WDR 2009 Team

Name of the lagging area. Lagging area is defined as the area with the lowest measure of welfare
(income or consumption or gdp) per capita

30

Lagging area: Poverty Incidence

WDR 2009 Team

The poverty incidence is the proportion of the population living below the poverty line

31

Lagging area: Poor in area as % of
total country poor

WDR 2009 Team

Proportion of the country’s poor residing in the lagging area

32

Lagging area: Welfare measure in
area (as a % of country’s average
welfare measure )

WDR 2009 Team

Lagging measure of welfare (income, consumption or gdp) per capita, relative to the national
measure of welfare (income, consumption or gdp) per capita

33

Lagging area: Area (km2)

Statoids

Surface area of the lagging area

34

Lagging area: Population density
(number of people per km2)

Statoids

People per km2 in the leading area

Column

Source

Notes

35

Countries that need a visa to visit
this country

Neumayer (2005)

Number of countries for which their nationals need a visa to visit this country.

36

Countries for which this country’s
residents need a visa

Neumayer (2005)

Number of countries for which the nationals of this country need a visa.

37

Cost of obtaining a passport relative
to GDP per capita

McKenzie (2005)

The price of a standard passport standardized using the GNI per capita

38

International migration stock (% of
foreigners)

World Bank

Migration stock is the number of people born in a country other than that in which they live. It also
includes refugees

39

International voice traffic (incoming
and outgoing, minutes per person)

World Bank

International voice traffic is the sum of international incoming and outgoing telephone traffic (in
minutes).

40

International internet bandwith (bits
per person)

World Bank

International Internet bandwidth is the contracted capacity of international connections between
countries for transmitting Internet traffic.

41

Telephone average cost of call to
the US (US$ per three minutes)

World Bank

Cost of international call to U.S. is the cost of a three-minute, peak rate, fixed line call from the
country to the United States.

42

Total trade as share of GDP

World Bank

Trade is the sum of exports and imports of goods and services measured as a share of gross
domestic product.

43

Index of shipping difficulties

WB Doing
Business

Indicator of shipping difficulties (border delays, read carpet, fees, red tape, etc)

44

Average tariffs and custom duties
(% of import value)

World Bank

Average tariffs

45

Share of trade with neighboring
countries (% of total trade)

WDR 2009 Team

The proportion of trade with neighboring countries as a proportion of the total trade of the country.
Calculation using COMTRADE data.

Table A4

International integration

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 347

10/10/08 10:39:43 AM

348

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Table A5

Other indicators

Column

Source

Notes

46

% of terrain: plains

Nelson (2007)

% of terrain: plains

47

% of terrain: lowlands

Nelson (2007)

% of terrain: lowlands

48

% of terrain: plateaus

Nelson (2007)

% of terrain: plateaus

49

% of terrain: hills

Nelson (2007)

% of terrain: hills

50

% of terrain: mountains

Nelson (2007)

% of terrain: mountains

51

Population living less than 25 kms
from an international border

WDR 2009 Team

Proportion of the total population living in less than 25 kms from an international border

52

Population living less than 75 kms
from an international border

WDR 2009 Team

Proportion of the total population living in less than 75 kms from an international border

53

Population living less than 25 kms
from a coastline

WDR 2009 Team

Proportion of the total population living in less than 25 kms from a coastline

54

Population living less than 75 kms
from a coastline

WDR 2009 Team

Proportion of the total population living in less than 75 kms from a coastline

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 348

10/10/08 10:39:43 AM

Selected World Development
Indicators

I

n this year’s edition, development data
are presented in five tables showing the
comparative socioeconomic data for
more than 130 economies for the most
recent year for which data are available and,
for some indicators, for an earlier year. An
additional table presents basic indicators
for 77 economies with sparse data or with
populations of less than 3 million.
The indicators presented here are a selection from more than 800 included in World
Development Indicators 2008. Published
annually, World Development Indicators
(WDI) reflects a comprehensive view of the
development process. The WDI’s six sections recognize the contribution of a wide
range of factors: progress on the Millennium
Development Goals and human capital
development, environmental sustainability,
macroeconomic performance, private sector development and the investment climate,
and the global links that influence the external environment for development.
World Development Indicators is complemented by a separately published database
that gives access to more than 1,000 data
tables and 800 time-series indicators for
222 economies and regions. This database
is available through an electronic subscription (WDI Online) or as a CD-ROM.

Data sources and methodology
Socioeconomic and environmental data
presented here are drawn from several
sources: primary data collected by the
World Bank, member country statistical
publications, research institutes, and international organizations such as the United
Nations and its specialized agencies, the

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 349

International Monetary Fund (IMF), and
the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) (see the
Data Sources following the Technical notes
for a complete listing). Although international standards of coverage, defi nition,
and classification apply to most statistics
reported by countries and international
agencies, there are inevitably differences in
timeliness and reliability arising from differences in the capabilities and resources
devoted to basic data collection and compilation. For some topics, competing sources
of data require review by World Bank staff
to ensure that the most reliable data available are presented. In some instances, where
available data are deemed too weak to provide reliable measures of levels and trends
or do not adequately adhere to international
standards, the data are not shown.
The data presented are generally consistent with those in World Development
Indicators 2008. However, data have been
revised and updated wherever new information has become available. Differences
may also reflect revisions to historical series
and changes in methodology. Thus data
of different vintages may be published in
different editions of World Bank publications. Readers are advised not to compile
data series from different publications or
different editions of the same publication.
Consistent time-series data are available
on World Development Indicators 2008 CDROM and through WDI Online.
All dollar figures are in current U.S. dollars
unless otherwise stated. The various methods
used to convert from national currency figures
are described in the Technical notes.

349

10/10/08 10:39:44 AM

350

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Because the World Bank’s primary business is providing lending and policy advice
to its low- and middle-income members, the
issues covered in these tables focus mainly
on these economies. Where available, information on the high-income economies is
also provided for comparison. Readers may
wish to refer to national statistical publications and publications of the OECD and the
European Union for more information on
the high-income economies

Classification of economies
and summary measures
The summary measures at the bottom of
most tables include economies classified by
income per capita and by region. Gross
national income (GNI) per capita is used to
determine the following income classifications: low-income, $935 or less in 2007;
middle-income, $936 to $11,455; and highincome, $11,456 and above. A further division at GNI per capita $3,705 is made between
lower-middle-income and upper-middleincome economies. The classification of
economies based on per capita income occurs
annually, so the country composition of the
income groups may change annually. When
these changes in classification are made based
on the most recent estimates, aggregates
based on the new income classifications are
recalculated for all past periods to ensure that
a consistent time series is maintained. See the
table on classification of economies at the end
of this volume for a list of economies in each
group (including those with populations of
less than 3 million).
Summary measures are either totals
(indicated by t if the aggregates include estimates for missing data and nonreporting
countries, or by an s for simple sums of the
data available), weighted averages (w), or
median values (m) calculated for groups of
economies. Data for the countries excluded
from the main tables (those presented in
table 5) have been included in the summary measures, where data are available,
or by assuming that they follow the trend of
reporting countries. This gives a more consistent aggregated measure by standardizing
country coverage for each period shown.
Where missing information accounts for a

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 350

third or more of the overall estimate, however, the group measure is reported as not
available. The section on Statistical methods
in the Technical notes provides further information on aggregation methods. Weights
used to construct the aggregates are listed
in the technical notes for each table.

Terminology and country coverage
The term country does not imply political
independence but may refer to any territory
for which authorities report separate social or
economic statistics. Data are shown for economies as they were constituted in 2007, and
historical data are revised to reflect current
political arrangements. Throughout the
tables, exceptions are noted. Unless otherwise noted, data for China do not include
data for Hong Kong, China; Macao, China;
or Taiwan, China. Data for Indonesia include
Timor-Leste through 1999 unless otherwise
noted. Montenegro declared independence
from Serbia and Montenegro on June 3, 2006.
When available, data for each country are
shown separately. However, some indicators
for Serbia continue to include data for Montenegro through 2005; these data are footnoted in
the tables. Moreover, data for most indicators
from 1999 onward for Serbia exclude data for
Kosovo, a territory within Serbia that is currently under international administration
pursuant to UN Security Council Resolution
1244 (1999); any exceptions are noted.

Technical notes
Because data quality and intercountry comparisons are often problematic, readers are
encouraged to consult the Technical notes,
the table on Classification of Economies by
Region and Income, and the footnotes to the
tables. For more extensive documentation,
see World Development Indicators 2008.
Readers may fi nd more information on
the WDI 2008, and orders can be made
online, by phone, or fax as follows:
For more information and to order
online: http://www.worldbank.org/data/
wdi2006/index.htm.
To order by phone or fax: 1-800-6457247 or 703-661-1580; Fax 703-661-1501.
To order by mail: The World Bank, P.O.
Box 960, Herndon, VA 20172-0960, U.S.A.

10/10/08 10:39:44 AM

351

Selected world development indicators

Classification of economies by region and income, FY2009
East Asia and the Pacific
American Samoa
Cambodia
China
Fiji
Indonesia
Kiribati
Korea, Dem. People’s Rep. of
Lao PDR
Malaysia
Marshall Islands
Micronesia, Fed. States of
Mongolia
Myanmar
Palau
Papua New Guinea
Philippines
Samoa
Solomon Islands
Thailand
Timor-Leste
Tonga
Vanuatu
Vietnam

UMC
LIC
LMC
UMC
LMC
LMC
LIC
LIC
UMC
LMC
LMC
LMC
LIC
UMC
LIC
LMC
LMC
LIC
LMC
LMC
LMC
LMC
LIC

Europe and Central Asia
Albania
Armenia
Azerbaijan
Belarus
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Bulgaria
Croatia
Georgia
Kazakhstan
Kyrgyz Republic
Latvia
Lithuania
Macedonia, FYR
Moldova
Montenegro
Poland
Romania
Russian Federation
Serbia
Tajikistan
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Ukraine
Uzbekistan

LMC
LMC
LMC
UMC
LMC
UMC
UMC
LMC
UMC
LIC
UMC
UMC
LMC
LMC
UMC
UMC
UMC
UMC
UMC
LIC
UMC
LMC
LMC
LIC

Latin America and the Caribbean
Argentina
Belize
Bolivia
Brazil
Chile
Colombia
Costa Rica
Cuba
Dominica
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
El Salvador
Grenada
Guatemala
Guyana
Haiti
Honduras
Jamaica
Mexico
Nicaragua
Panama
Paraguay
Peru
St. Kitts and Nevis
St. Lucia
St. Vincent and the Grenadines
Suriname
Uruguay
Venezuela, R.B.

UMC
UMC
LMC
UMC
UMC
LMC
UMC
UMC
UMC
LMC
LMC
LMC
UMC
LMC
LMC
LIC
LMC
UMC
UMC
LMC
UMC
LMC
LMC
UMC
UMC
UMC
UMC
UMC
UMC

Middle East and North Africa
Algeria
Djibouti
Egypt, Arab Rep. of
Iran, Islamic Rep. of
Iraq
Jordan
Lebanon
Libya
Morocco
Syrian Arab Republic
Tunisia
West Bank and Gaza
Yemen, Rep. of

LMC
LMC
LMC
LMC
LMC
LMC
UMC
UMC
LMC
LMC
LMC
LMC
LIC

South Asia
Afghanistan
Bangladesh
Bhutan
India
Maldives
Nepal
Pakistan
Sri Lanka

LIC
LIC
LMC
LMC
LMC
LIC
LIC
LMC

Sub-Saharan Africa
Angola
Benin
Botswana
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cameroon
Cape Verde
Central African Republic
Chad
Comoros
Congo, Dem. Rep. of
Congo, Rep. of
Côte d’Ivoire
Eritrea
Ethiopia
Gabon
Gambia, The
Ghana
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Kenya
Lesotho
Liberia
Madagascar
Malawi
Mali
Mauritania
Mauritius
Mayotte
Mozambique
Namibia
Niger
Nigeria
Rwanda
São Tomé and Príncipe
Senegal
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Somalia
South Africa
Sudan
Swaziland
Tanzania
Togo
Uganda
Zambia
Zimbabwe

LMC
LIC
UMC
LIC
LIC
LMC
LMC
LIC
LIC
LIC
LIC
LMC
LIC
LIC
LIC
UMC
LIC
LIC
LIC
LIC
LIC
LMC
LIC
LIC
LIC
LIC
LIC
UMC
UMC
LIC
LMC
LIC
LIC
LIC
LIC
LIC
UMC
LIC
LIC
UMC
LMC
LMC
LIC
LIC
LIC
LIC
LIC

High income OECD
Australia
Austria
Belgium
Canada
Czech Republic
Denmark
Finland
France
Germany
Greece
Hungary
Iceland
Ireland
Italy
Japan
Korea, Rep. of
Luxembourg
Netherlands
New Zealand
Norway
Portugal
Slovak Republic
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
United Kingdom
United States
Other high income
Andorra
Antigua and Barbuda
Aruba
Bahamas, The
Bahrain
Barbados
Bermuda
Brunei Darussalam
Cayman Islands
Channel Islands
Cyprus
Equatorial Guinea
Estonia
Faeroe Islands
French Polynesia
Greenland
Guam
Hong Kong, China
Isle of Man
Israel
Kuwait
Liechtenstein
Macao, China
Malta
Monaco
Netherlands Antilles
New Caledonia
Northern Mariana Islands
Oman
Puerto Rico
Qatar
San Marino
Saudi Arabia
Singapore
Slovenia
Taiwan, China
Trinidad and Tobago
United Arab Emirates
Virgin Islands (U.S.)

This table classifies all World Bank member economies and all other economies with populations of more than 30,000. Economies are divided among income groups according to
2007 GNI per capita, calculated using the World Bank Atlas method. The groups are low income (LIC), $935 or less; lower middle income (LMC), $936–3,705; upper middle income
(UMC), $3,706–11,455; and high income, $11,456 or more.
Source: World Bank data.

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 351

10/10/08 10:39:44 AM

352

Table 1

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Key indicators of development
Population
GNIa
age
composition
Average
%
annual %
Density
$ per
growth people per ages 0–14 $ billions capita
2007
2000–07 sq. km 2007
2007
2007

Population

Millions
2007
Afghanistan
Albania
Algeria
Angola
Argentina
Armenia
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bangladesh
Belarus
Belgium
Benin
Bolivia
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Brazil
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Central African Republic
Chad
Chile
China
Hong Kong, China
Colombia
Congo, Dem. Rep. of
Congo, Rep. of
Costa Rica
Côte d’Ivoire
Croatia
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Egypt, Arab Rep. of
El Salvador
Eritrea
Ethiopia
Finland
France
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Guatemala
Guinea
Haiti
Honduras
Hungary
India
Indonesia
Iran, Islamic Rep. of
Iraq
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Korea, Rep. of
Kyrgyz Republic
Lao PDR
Lebanon
Liberia
Libya
Lithuania
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Mali
Mauritania
Mexico
Moldova
Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 352

..
3
34
17
40
3
21
8
9
159
10
11
9
10
4
192
8
15
8
14
19
33
4
11
17
1,320
7
46
62
4
4
19
4
10
5
10
13
75
7
5
79
5
62
4
82
23
11
13
9
10
7
10
1,123
226
71
..
4
7
59
128
6
15
38
49
5
6
4
4
6
3
20
14
27
12
3
105
4
31
21
49

..
0.5
1.5
2.9
1.0
–0.4
1.3
0.5
0.9
1.8
–0.4
0.5
3.2
1.9
0.3
1.4
–0.8
3.1
3.5
1.8
2.2
1.0
1.7
3.4
1.1
0.6
0.5
1.4
3.0
2.3
1.8
1.7
–0.2
0.1
0.3
1.6
1.2
1.8
1.4
3.9
2.6
0.3
0.7
–1.0
0.0f
2.2
0.4
2.5
1.9
1.6
1.9
–0.2
1.4
1.3
1.5
..
2.0
1.9
0.6
0.1
2.5
0.6
2.6
0.5
0.9
1.6
1.2
2.9
2.0
–0.5
2.8
2.6
1.9
3.0
2.8
1.0
–1.3
1.2
2.3
0.9

..
116
14
14
14
106
3
101
104
1,218
47
352
82
9
74
23
70
54
331
82
40
4
7
9
22
142
6,647
42
28
11
87
61
79
134
129
202
48
76
331
48
79
17
112
63
236
103
87
123
38
349
63
112
378
125
44
..
63
331
202
351
65
6
66
492
27
25
401
39
4
54
34
148
81
10
3
54
115
69
27
74

..
25
28
46
26
19
19
15
23
34
15
17
44
37
17
27
13
46
44
36
41
17
42
46
24
21
14
29
47
42
27
41
15
14
19
33
32
33
33
43
44
17
18
18
14
38
14
43
43
37
39
15
32
28
27
..
21
28
14
14
36
24
43
18
30
38
28
47
30
16
43
47
30
48
40
30
19
29
44
26

10.1
10.5
122.5
43.6
238.9
7.9
755.8
355.1
21.9
75.1
40.9
432.5
5.1
12.0
14.3
1,133.0
35.1
6.4
0.9
7.9
19.5
1,300.0
1.7
5.8
138.6
3,120.9
218.9
149.9
8.6
5.8
24.8
17.5
46.4
149.4
299.8
34.6
41.2
119.4
19.5
1.1
17.6
234.8
2,447.1
9.3
3,197.0
13.9
331.7
32.6
3.7
5.4
11.3
116.3
1,069.4
373.1
246.5
..
210.2
157.1
1,991.3
4,813.3
16.3
78.3
25.6
955.8
3.1
3.4
23.7
0.6
55.5
33.5
6.3
3.5
173.7
6.1
2.6
878.0
4.3
69.4
6.8
..

..c
3,290
3,620
2,560
6,050
2,640
35,960
42,700
2,550
470
4,220
40,710
570
1,260
3,790
5,910
4,590
430
110
540
1,050
39,420
380
540
8,350
2,360
31,610
3,250
140
1,540
5,560
910
10,460
14,450
54,910
3,550
3,080
1,580
2,850
230
220
44,400
38,500e
2,120
38,860
590
29,630
2,440
400
560
1,600
11,570
950
1,650
3,470
..g
48,140
21,900
33,540
37,670
2,850
5,060
680
19,690
590
580
5,770
150
9,010
9,920
320
250
6,540
500
840
8,340
1,260h
2,250
320
..c

PPP GNIb

$ billions
2007

$ per
capita
2007

Gross
domestic
product
per capita
% growth
2006–07

27.2d
20.9
258.8d
74.9
513.0
17.7
700.6
316.8
54.6
212.7
104.2
373.1
11.9
39.4
28.6
1,795.7
85.4
16.5
2.8
24.5
39.2
1,164.2
3.2
13.8
209.0
7,083.5
305.1
306.2
17.9
10.4
47.7d
30.7
66.8
225.5
200.6
61.8d
93.9
407.6
38.6d
2.5d
61.7
186.5
2,065.4
21.0
2,782.7
31.2
364.1
60.4d
10.5
11.1d
25.7d
175.2
3,078.7
807.9
766.9
..
161.7
186.0
1,775.3
4,420.6
29.5
150.1
57.8
1,201.1
10.2
11.4
41.2
1.1
90.6d
58.0
18.2
10.5
360.2
12.8
6.3
1,324.6
11.1
123.3
14.8
..

..d
6,580
7,640d
4,400
12,990
5,900
33,340
38,090
6,370
1,340
10,740
35,110
1,310
4,140
7,280
9,370
11,180
1,120
330
1,690
2,120
35,310
740
1,280
12,590
5,370
44,050
6,640
290
2,750
10,700d
1,590
15,050
21,820
36,740
6,340d
7,040
5,400
5,640d
520d
780
35,270
33,470
4,770
33,820
1,330
32,520
4,520d
1,120
1,150d
3,620d
17,430
2,740
3,580
10,800
..
37,040
25,930
29,900
34,600
5,160
9,700
1,540
24,750
1,950
1,940
10,050
290
14,710d
17,180
920
750
13,570
1,040
2,010
12,580
2,930
3,990
690
..

..
5.7
1.6
20.1
7.6
14.0
2.9
3.0
18.0
4.8
8.5
2.1
1.5
2.8
6.8
4.2
6.9
1.0
–0.3
8.4
1.3
1.7
2.3
–2.1
4.1
11.2
5.3
6.2
3.5
–3.6
4.8
–0.1
5.6
5.0
1.4
7.0
0.9
5.2
2.8
–2.3
8.4
4.0
1.6
13.4
2.6
4.3
3.6
3.2
–0.6
1.4
4.5
1.5
7.7
5.1
6.2
..
2.8
3.4
0.8
2.1
2.6
7.3
4.1
4.7
6.4
5.3
1.0
4.3
4.8
9.4
3.7
4.7
4.0
–0.3
–0.6
2.3
4.1
1.1
5.0
4.1

Life expectancy at
birth
Male
years
2006

Female
years
2006

Adult
literacy
rate %
ages 15
and older
2005

..
73
71
41
71
68
79
77
70
63
63
77
55
63
72
69
69
50
48
57
50
78
43
49
75
70
79
69
45
54
76
47
73
73
76
69
72
69
69
55
51
76
77
67
76
59
77
66
54
59
66
69
63
66
69
..
77
78
78
79
71
61
52
75
64
63
70
44
71
65
57
47
72
52
62
72
65
69
42
59

..
80
73
44
79
75
83
83
75
65
74
82
57
67
77
76
76
53
50
61
51
83
46
52
81
74
85
76
47
56
81
49
79
80
80
75
78
73
75
60
54
83
84
75
82
60
82
74
57
62
73
77
66
70
72
..
82
82
84
86
74
72
55
82
72
65
74
46
77
77
61
48
76
56
66
77
72
73
43
65

..
99
70
67
97
99
..
..
..
47
..
..
35
87
97
89
98
24
59
74
68
..
49
26
96
91
..
93
67
85
95
49
98
..
..
87
91
71
81
..
36
..
..
..
..
58
96
69
29
..
80
..
61
90
82
..
..
..
98
..
91
..
74
..
..
69
..
52
84
100
71
..
89
24
51
92
99
52
..
90

Carbon
dioxide
emissions
per capita
metric tons
2004
0.0
1.2
6.0
0.5
3.7
1.2
16.2
8.5
3.8
0.3
6.6
9.7
0.3
0.8
4.0
1.8
5.5
0.1
0.0
0.0
0.2
20.0
0.1
0.0
3.9
3.9
5.5
1.2
0.0
1.0
1.5
0.3
5.3
11.5
9.8
2.1
2.3
2.2
0.9
0.2
0.1
12.6
6.2
0.9
9.8
0.3
8.7
1.0
0.2
0.2
1.1
5.7
1.2
1.7
6.4
3.0
10.4
10.5
7.7
9.8
3.1
13.3
0.3
9.7
1.1
0.2
4.1
0.1
10.3
3.9
0.2
0.1
7.0
0.1
0.9
4.3
2.0
1.4
0.1
0.2

10/22/08 4:45:04 PM

353

Selected world development indicators

Population
GNIa
age
composition
Average
%
annual %
Density
$ per
growth people per ages 0–14 $ billions capita
2007
2000–07 sq. km 2007
2007
2007

Population

Millions
2007
Nepal
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Norway
Pakistan
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Romania
Russian Federation
Rwanda
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Slovak Republic
Somalia
South Africa
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Sweden
Switzerland
Syrian Arab Republic
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand
Togo
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
United States
Uruguay
Uzbekistan
Venezuela, R.B. de
Vietnam
West Bank and Gaza
Yemen, Rep.
Zambia
Zimbabwe
World
Low income
Middle income
Lower middle income
Upper middle income
Low and middle income
East Asia & Pacific
Europe & Central Asia
Latin America & the
Caribbean
Middle East & North Africa
South Asia
Sub-Saharan Africa
High income

28
16
4
6
14
148
5
162
3
6
6
28
88
38
11
22
142
10
24
12
7i
6
5
5
9
48
45
20
39
9
8
20
7
40
64
7
10
74
5
31
46
4
61
302
3
27
27
85
4
22
12
13
6,612s
1,296
4,260
3,437
823
5,556
1,914
445
563

2.0
0.4
1.3
1.3
3.5
2.4
0.7
2.3
1.8
2.3
1.9
1.2
2.0
–0.1
0.5
–0.6
–0.5
2.5
2.3
2.6
–0.3i
3.7
1.9
0.0f
3.0
1.1
1.6
0.4
2.1
0.4
0.7
2.7
1.3
2.5
0.7
2.8
1.0
1.3
1.4
3.2
–0.8
4.2
0.5
0.9
0.1
1.2
1.7
1.3
3.8
3.0
1.9
0.8
1.2w
2.2
1.0
1.1
0.7
1.3
0.8
0.0f
1.3

197
484
16
46
11
162
15
211
45
14
15
22
295
124
116
94
9
395
12
64
95i
82
6,660
112
14
39
90
309
16
22
189
108
48
46
125
121
66
96
11
157
80
52
252
33
19
63
31
275
643
42
16
35
51w
61
57
100
20
58
121
19
28

313
1,520
800
1,056

1.8
1.6
2.5
0.7

36
318
34
32

PPP GNIb

$ billions
2007

$ per
capita
2007

38
18
21
37
48
44
19
36
30
40
35
31
35
15
16
15
15
43
34
42
18
43
18
16
44
32
15
23
40
17
16
36
38
44
21
43
25
27
30
49
14
20
18
20
23
32
31
28
45
45
46
38
28w
39
27
27
24
29
23
19
29

9.7
750.5
121.7
5.5
4.0
137.1
360.0
141.0
18.4
5.4
10.2
96.2
142.6
374.6
201.1
132.5
1,071.0
3.1
373.5
10.2
35.0
1.5
149.0
63.3
..
274.0
1,321.8
30.8
37.0
421.3
452.1
35.0
3.1
16.3
217.4
2.4
32.8
592.9
..
10.5
118.4
..
2,608.5
13,886.5
21.2
19.7
201.2
67.2
4.5
19.4
9.5
4.5
52,621.4t
748.8
12,234.7
6,485.0
5,749.6
12,985.9
4,173.5
2,693.7
3,118.0

340
45,820
28,780
980
280
930
76,450
870
5,510
850
1,670
3,450
1,620
9,840
18,950
6,150
7,560
320
15,440
820
4,730i
260
32,470
11,730
..c
5,760
29,450
1,540
960
46,060
59,880
1,760
460
400j
3,400
360
3,200
8,020
..g
340
2,550
..k
42,740
46,040
6,380
730
7,320
790
1,230
870
800
340
7,958w
578
2,872
1,887
6,987
2,337
2,180
6,051
5,540

29.2
647.1
111.4
14.1d
9.0
262.5
252.8
417.5
35.4d
11.8d
26.8
201.9
327.8
593.3
219.0
236.6
2,039.1
8.4
554.3
20.3
75.5
3.9
222.7
104.3
..
454.8
1,351.1
84.0
72.6
327.9
325.3
87.0
11.5
48.7
503.1
5.2
73.0
893.1
21.0d
28.5
315.9
..
2,097.9
13,829.0
36.6
65.3d
327.5
216.9
..
49.3
14.6
..
65,144.4t
1,935.2
25,353.6
15,613.9
9,765.9
27,283.9
9,449.8
4,947.7
5,245.9

1,040
39,500
26,340
2,520d
630
1,770
53,690
2,570
10,610d
1,870d
4,380
7,240
3,730
15,590
20,640
10,980
14,400
860
22,910
1,640
10,220
660
48,520
19,330
..
9,560
30,110
4,210
1,880
35,840
43,080
4,370
1,710
1,200
7,880
800
7,130
12,090
4,350d
920
6,810
..
34,370
45,850
11,040
2,430d
11,920
2,550
..
2,200
1,220
..
9,852w
1,494
5,952
4,543
11,868
4,911
4,937
11,115
9,321

32
33
43
18

875.6
1,338.6
761.6
39,682.1

2,794
880
952
37,566

2,314.7
3,856.7
1,496.1
38,133.5

7,385
2,537
1,870
36,100

Gross
domestic
product
per capita
% growth
2006–07
0.8
3.3
2.3
2.9
–0.1
4.0
2.4
4.2
9.4
4.2
4.6
7.8
5.3
6.7
1.7
6.4
8.8
3.0
1.2
1.9
6.9
4.6
3.3
10.3
..
4.4
2.0
6.5
7.8
1.8
2.2
4.0
6.2
4.5
4.1
–0.5
5.1
3.2
..
2.9
8.2
4.4
2.3
1.5
7.3
7.9
6.6
7.2
–4.9
0.6
4.0
–6.0
2.6w
4.3
6.9
8.6
5.1
6.5
9.6
6.7
4.5
4.0
7.0
3.7
2.0

Life expectancy at
birth

Adult
literacy
rate %
ages 15
and older
2005

Carbon
dioxide
emissions
per capita
metric tons
2004

Male
years
2006

Female
years
2006

63
78
78
70
57
46
78
65
73
55
69
69
69
71
75
69
59
44
71
61
70i
41
78
70
47
49
78
72
57
79
79
72
64
51
66
56
72
69
59
50
62
77
77
75
72
64
72
68
71
61
41
43
66w
56
67
67
67
64
69
64
70

64
82
82
76
56
47
83
66
78
60
74
74
74
80
82
76
73
47
75
65
76i
44
82
78
49
53
84
78
60
83
84
76
69
53
75
60
76
74
67
51
74
82
81
81
80
71
77
73
74
64
42
42
70w
58
71
70
74
68
73
74
76

49
..
..
77
29
69
..
50
92
57
93
88
93
..
94
97
99
65
83
39
..
35
93
..
..
..
..
91
61
..
..
81
99
69
93
53
74
87
..
67
99
89
..
..
..
..
93
..
92
54
..
89
82w
61
90
89
93
79
91
97
90

0.1
8.7
7.7
0.7
0.1
0.8
19.1
0.8
1.8
0.4
0.7
1.2
1.0
8.0
5.6
4.2
10.6
0.1
13.7
0.4
..
0.2
12.5
6.7
..
9.4
7.7
0.6
0.3
5.9
5.5
3.7
0.8
0.1
4.3
0.4
2.3
3.2
8.8
0.1
7.0
37.8
9.8
20.6
1.7
5.3
6.6
1.2
..
1.0
0.2
0.8
4.3w
0.6
3.2
2.6
5.5
2.6
3.3
7.1
2.6

68
63
49
76

72
66
52
82

73
58
59
99

3.8
1.1
0.9
13.1

a. Calculated using the World Bank Atlas method. b. PPP is purchasing power parity; see Technical notes. c. Estimated to be low income ($935 or less). d.The estimate is based on
regression; others are extrapolated from the latest International Comparison Program benchmark estimates. e. The GNI and GNI per capita estimates include the French overseas
departments of French Guiana, Guadeloupe, Martinique, and Réunion. f. Less than 0.05. g. Estimated to be lower middle income ($936 to $3,705). h. Excludes data for Transnistria. i.
Excludes data for Kosovo and Metohija. j. Data refer to mainland Tanzania only. k. Estimated to be high income ($11.456 or more).

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 353

10/22/08 5:30:50 PM

354
Table 2

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9
Millennium Development Goals: eradicating poverty and improving lives
Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger
Share of poorest
Prevalence of
quintile in national
child malnutrition
consumption or
income
% of children
under 5
%b

Afghanistan
Albania
Algeria
Angola
Argentina
Armenia
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bangladesh
Belarus
Belgium
Benin
Bolivia
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Brazil
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Central African Republic
Chad
Chile
China
Hong Kong, China
Colombia
Congo, Dem. Rep. of
Congo, Rep.
Costa Rica
Côte d’Ivoire
Croatia
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Egypt, Arab Rep. of
El Salvador
Eritrea
Ethiopia
Finland
France
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Guatemala
Guinea
Haiti
Honduras
Hungary
India
Indonesia
Iran, Islamic Rep. of
Iraq
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Korea, Rep. of
Kyrgyz Republic
Lao PDR
Lebanon
Liberia
Libya
Lithuania
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Mali
Mauritania
Mexico
Moldova
Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 354

Achieve
universal
primary
education

Improve maternal health

Promote gender
equality

Ratio of girls to
boys enrolllments
Primary
in primary and
completion ratea secondary schoola
%
%

Reduce child
mortality
Under-five
mortality rate
per 1,000

Births attended
by skilled health staff
% of total

1992–2005

1990

2000–07b

1991

2006

1991

2006

1990

2006

1990

2000–07b

..
8.2c
7.0c
..
3.1d,e
8.5c
5.9e
8.6e
7.4c
8.8c
8.8c
8.5e
7.4c
1.5e
7.0c
2.9e
8.7c
6.9c
5.1c
6.8c
5.6c
7.2e
2.0c
..
3.8e
4.3e
5.3e
2.9e
..
..
4.1e
5.2c
8.8c
10.3e
8.3e
4.1e
3.3c
8.9c
2.7e
..
9.1c
9.6e
7.2e
5.4c
8.5e
5.6c
6.7e
3.9e
7.0c
2.4e
3.4e
8.6c
8.1c
7.1c
6.5c
..
7.4e
5.7e
6.5e
10.6e
6.7c
7.4c
6.0c
7.9e
8.9c
8.1c
..
..
..
6.8c
4.9c
7.0c
4.4e
6.1c
6.2c
4.3c
7.8c
6.5c
5.4c
..

..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
8.9
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
8.4
..
..
11.1
..
..
..
..
..
..
24.1
..
..
..
..
..
2.3
..
31.0
..
..
..
..
..
..
4.8
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
35.5
24.4
..
..
..
13.9
..
8.1
..
..

..
17.0
10.2
27.5
2.3
4.2
..
..
14.0
39.2
1.3
..
21.5
5.9
1.6
3.7
1.6
35.2
38.9
28.4
15.1
..
21.8
33.9
..
6.8
..
5.1
33.6
11.8
..
20.2
..
2.1
..
4.2
6.2
5.4
6.1
34.5
34.6
..
..
..
..
18.8
..
17.7
22.5
18.9
8.6
..
43.5
24.4
..
..
..
..
..
..
3.6
..
16.5
..
..
36.4
3.4
22.8
..
..
36.8
18.4
..
30.1
30.4
3.4
3.2
9.9
21.2
29.6

..
..
80
35
..
..
..
..
..
49
94
79
21
..
..
93
84
20
46
..
53
..
27
18
..
105
102
70
46
54
79
43
..
..
98
..
..
..
41
..
26
97
104
..
100
61
99
..
17
27
64
93
64
91
91
58
..
..
104
101
72
..
..
98
..
46
..
..
..
..
33
29
91
13
34
88
..
48
26
..

..
96
85
..
97
91
..
103
92
72
95
87
64
101
..
106
98
31
36
87
52
..
24
31
95
..
100
105
..
73
89
43
92
94
101
83
106
98k
88
49
46k
97
..
85
97
71
103
77
64
..
89
96
86
99
101
..
96
101
100
..
99
101k
93
101k
99
75
80
63
..
93
57
55
98
49
47
104
98
84
42
95

..
96
83
..
..
..
101
95
100
..
..
101
49
..
..
..
99
62
82
73
83
99
60
42
100
87
103
108
..
85
101
65
102
98
101
..
..
81
102
..
68
109
102
98
99
79
99
..
45
94
106
100
70
93
85
78
104
105
100
101
101
102
94
99
..
76
..
..
..
..
98
81
101
57
71
97
106
70
71
97

..
97
99
..
104
104
97
97
96
103
101
98
73
98
..
103
97
80
89
89
83
98
..
61
99
100
98
104
..
90
102
..
102
101
101
104
100
95
99
72
83k
102
100
103
98
95k
98
92
74
..
109
99
91
98
105
..
103
101
99
100
102
99k
96
96k
100
85
103
..
105
100
96
100
104
74
102
99
103
87
85
101

..
45
69
260
29
56
10
10
105
149
24
10
185
125
22
57
19
206
190
116
139
8
173
201
21
45
..
35
205
103
18
153
12
13
9
65
57
91
60
147
204
7
9
46
9
120
11
82
235
152
58
17
115
91
72
53
9
12
9
6
40
60
97
9
75
163
37
235
41
13
168
221
22
250
133
53
37
89
235
130

..
17
38
260
16
24
6
5
88
69
13
4
148
61
15
20
14
204
181
82
149
6
175
209
9
24
..
21
205
126
12
127
6
4
5
29
24
35
25
74
123
4
4
32
4
120
4
41
161
80
27
7
76
34
34
..
5
5
4
4
25
29
121
5
41
75
30
235
18
8
115
120
12
217
125
35
19
37
138
104

..
..
77
..
96
..
100
..
..
..
..
..
..
43
97
72
..
..
..
..
58
..
..
..
..
50
..
82
..
..
98
..
100
..
..
93
..
37
52
..
..
..
..
..
..
40
..
..
31
23
45
..
..
32
..
54
..
..
..
100
87
..
50
98
..
..
..
..
..
..
57
55
..
..
40
..
..
31
..
..

..
100
95
45
99
98
100
..
100
20
100
..
79
67
100
97
99
54
34
44
63
100
53
14
100
98
100
96
74k
86
99
57
100
100
..
96
75
74
92
28
6
100
..
92
100
50
..
41
38
26
67
100
47
72
90
..
100
..
99
100
100
100
42
100
98
19
98
51
..
100
51
54
98
41
57
83
100
63
48
68

Contraceptive
Prevalence rate

Combat
HIV/AIDS
and other
diseases

% of married
women ages
15–49

HIV prevalence
% of population
ages 15–49

1990

2000–07b

2005

..
..
47
..
..
..
..
..
..
31
..
78
..
30
..
59
..
..
..
..
16
..
..
..
56
71
86
66
8
..
..
..
..
78
78
56
53
38
47
..
4
77
81
..
75
13
..
..
..
10
47
..
43
50
49
14
60
68
..
58
40
..
27
77
..
..
..
..
..
..
17
13
50
..
3
..
..
42
..
17

..
60
61
6
..
53
..
..
55
58
73
..
17
58
36
..
..
17
9
40
29
..
19
3
..
87
..
78
21k
44
96
13
69
..
..
61
73
59
67
8
15
..
..
47
..
17
..
43
9
32
65
..
56
57
74
..
..
..
..
56
56
51
39
..
48
32
58
10
..
..
27
42
..
8
8
71
68
63
17
34

..
0.2
0.1
3.7
0.6
0.1
0.1
0.3
0.1
<0.1
0.3
0.3
1.8
0.1
<0.1
0.5
<0.1
2.0
3.3
1.6
5.5g
0.3
10.7
3.5
0.3
0.1h
..
0.6
3.2
5.3
0.3
7.1
<0.1
0.1
0.2
1.1
0.3
<0.1
0.9
2.4
1.4i
0.1
0.4
0.2
0.1
2.3
0.2
0.9
1.5
2.2j
1.5
0.1
0.9
0.1
0.2
..
0.2
0.2
0.5
<0.1
0.2
0.1
6.1
<0.1
0.1
0.1
0.1
..
0.2
0.2
0.5
14.1
0.5
1.7
0.7
0.3
1.1
0.1
16.1
1.3

10/10/08 10:39:48 AM

355

Selected world development indicators

Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger
Share of poorest
Prevalence of
quintile in national
child malnutrition
consumption or
income
% of children
under 5
%b

Nepal
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Norway
Pakistan
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Romania
Russian Federation
Rwanda
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Slovak Republic
Somalia
South Africa
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Sweden
Switzerland
Syrian Arab Republic
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand
Togo
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
United States
Uruguay
Uzbekistan
Venezuela, R.B. de
Vietnam
West Bank and Gaza
Yemen, Rep.
Zambia
Zimbabwe
World
Low income
Middle income
Lower middle income
Upper middle income
Low and middle income
East Asia & Pacific
Europe & Central Asia
Latin America & the
Caribbean
Middle East & North
Africa
South Asia
Sub-Saharan Africa
High income

2000–07b

Achieve
universal
primary
education
Primary
completion ratea
%

Improve maternal health

Promote gender
equality
Ratio of girls to
boys enrolllments
in primary and
secondary schoola
%

Reduce child
mortality
Under-five
mortality rate
per 1,000

Births attended
by skilled health staff
% of total
1990

2000–07b

1992–2005

1990

1991

2006

1991

2006

1990

2006

6.0c
7.6e
6.4e
5.6c
2.6c
5.0c
9.6e
9.1c
2.5e
4.5c
2.4e
3.7e
5.4c
7.4c
5.8e
8.2c
6.1c
5.3c
..
6.6c
8.3c,f
6.5c
5.0e
8.8e
..
3.5c
7.0e
7.0c
..
9.1e
7.6e
..
7.8c
7.3c
6.3c
..
6.0c
5.3c
6.1c
5.7c
9.0c
..
6.1e
5.4e
4.5d,e
7.2c
3.3e
7.1c
..
7.2c
3.6c
4.6c

..
..
..
..
41.0
35.1
..
39.0
..
..
2.8
8.8
..
..
..
..
..
24.3
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
25.1
..
21.2
8.5
..
..
19.7
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
21.2
8.0
..w
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

38.8
..
..
7.8
39.9
27.2
..
31.3
..
..
..
5.2
20.7
..
..
3.5
..
18.0
..
14.5
1.8
24.7
3.3
..
32.8
..
..
22.8
38.4
..
..
8.5
..
16.7
7.0
..
..
3.5
..
19.0
4.1
..
..
1.1
6.0
4.4
..
20.2
..
41.3
23.3
14.0
23.9w
28.9
22.9
25.2
..
24.9
13.3
..
5.1

51
..
100
42
18
..
100
..
86
46
68
..
86
98
95
96
..
35
55
42
..
..
..
96
..
76
..
102
42
96
53
89
..
62
..
35
74
90
..
..
94
103
..
..
94
..
43
..
..
..
..
97
79w
49
82
83
88
77
101
90
82

76
..
..
73
33
76
96
62
94
..
95
101
94
97
104
101
94
35
..
49
..
81k
..
93
..
100
103
108
47
..
88
115
106
85k
..
67
120
96
..
54
105
100
..
95
99
100
96
..
95
60
84
..
86w
65
93
91
101
85
98
98
100

59
97
100
109
53
77
102
..
..
80
98
96
100
101
103
99
104
92
84
69
..
67
95
..
..
104
104
102
77
102
97
85
..
97
97
59
86
81
..
82
..
104
102
100
..
94
105
..
..
..
..
92
..w
76
86
83
99
84
90
98
99

93
98
103
102
70
83
100
78
101
..
99
101
102
99
101
100
99
102
..
92
..
86k
..
100
..
100
103
..
89
100
97
95
88
..
104
73
104
90
..
98
99
101
102
100
106
98k
103
..
104
66
93
97
95w
88
97
96
100
94
100
97
101

142
9
11
68
320
230
9
130
34
94
41
78
62
18
14
31
27
176
44
149
..
290
8
14
203
60
9
32
120
7
9
38
115
161
31
149
52
82
99
160
25
15
10
11
23
74
33
53
40
139
180
76
92w
164
75
81
46
101
56
49
55

59
5
6
36
253
191
4
97
23
73
22
25
32
7
5
18
16
160
25
116
8
270
3
8
145
69
4
13
89
3
5
14
68
118
8
108
23
26
51
134
24
8
6
8
12
43
21
17
22
100
182
105
72w
135
49
54
26
79
29
26
26

7
..
..
..
15
33
100
19
..
..
66
80
..
..
98
..
..
26
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
69
..
..
..
..
53
..
31
69
..
..
38
..
..
..
99
..
..
..
..
..
16
51
70
49w
33
48
44
79
45
47
81
75

19
100
97
67
18
36
..
31
91
42
77
87
60
100
100
98
99
39
96
52
99
43
100
100
33
92
..
96
49
..
100
93
83
43
97
62
90
83
100
42
100
100
..
99
99
100
95
88
99
27
43
80
65w
41
73
69
94
62
87
95
88

..

..

77

90

79

93

78

42

48

..
..
..

41.3
26.8
..

62
51
..

80
60
97

70
82
100

90
87
99

123
184
12

83
157
7

30
44
..

Contraceptive
Prevalence rate

Combat
HIV/AIDS
and other
diseases

% of married
women ages
15–49

HIV prevalence
% of population
ages 15–49

1990

2000–07b

2005

23
76
..
..
4
6
74
15
..
..
48
59
36
49
..
..
34
21
..
..
..
..
65
74
1
57
..
..
9
..
..
..
..
10
..
34
50
63
..
5
..
..
..
71
..
..
..
53
..
10
15
43
57w
22
61
63
50
54
75
44
57

48
..
..
69
11
13
..
28
..
..
73
46
49
..
..
70
..
17
..
12
41
5
..
..
15
60
..
70
8
..
..
58
38
26
77
17
63
71
48
24
66
..
84
..
..
65
..
76
50
23
34
60
60w
33
69
69
67
60
79
63
67

0.5
0.2
0.1
0.2
1.1
3.9
0.1
0.1
0.9
1.8
0.4
0.6
<0.1
0.1
0.4
<0.1
1.1
3.0i
0.2
0.7i
0.2f
1.6
0.3
<0.1
0.9
18.8
0.6
<0.1
1.6
0.2
0.4
0.2
0.1
6.5
1.4
3.2
0.1
0.2
<0.1
6.4l
1.4
0.2
0.2
0.6
0.5
0.2
0.7
0.5i
..
0.2
17.0
18.1j
1.0w
2.5
0.7
0.5
1.6
1.1
0.2
0.6
0.6

77

42

60

0.1

41
45
99

40
15
71

53
22
..

0.7
5.8
0.4

a. Because of the change from International Standard Classification of Education 1976 (ISCED76) to ISCED97, data before 1998 are not fully comparable with data from 1999
onward. b. Data are for the most recent year available. c. Refers to expenditure shares by percentiles of population, ranked by per capita expenditure. d. Urban data. e. Refers to
income shares by percentiles of population, ranked by per capita income. f. Includes Montenegro. g. Survey data, 2004. h. Includes Hong Kong, China. i. Survey data 2005. j. Survey
data 2005–2006. k. Data are for 2007. l. Survey data, 2004–2005.

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 355

10/10/08 10:39:49 AM

356

Table 3

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Economic activity
Gross domestic product

Millions of Avg. annual
dollars
% growth
2007
Afghanistan
Albania
Algeria
Angola
Argentina
Armenia
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bangladesh
Belarus
Belgium
Benin
Bolivia
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Brazil
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Central African Republic
Chad
Chile
China
Hong Kong, China
Colombia
Congo, Dem. Rep. of
Congo, Rep. of
Costa Rica
Côte d’Ivoire
Croatia
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Egypt, Arab Rep. of
El Salvador
Eritrea
Ethiopia
Finland
France
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Guatemala
Guinea
Haiti
Honduras
Hungary
India
Indonesia
Iran, Islamic Rep. of
Iraq
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Korea, Rep. of
Kyrgyz Republic
Lao PDR
Lebanon
Liberia
Libya
Lithuania
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Mali
Mauritania
Mexico
Moldova
Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 356

11,627
10,569
135,285
58,547
262,331
9,177
821,716
377,028
31,248
67,694
44,771
448,560
5,428
13,120
14,661
1,314,170
39,549
6,767
974
8,628
20,644
1,326,376
1,712
7,085
163,915
3,280,053
206,706
171,979
8,955
7,646
25,225
19,570
51,277
168,142
308,093
36,686
44,184
128,095
20,215
1,201
19,395
246,020
2,562,288
10,176
3,297,233
15,246
360,031
33,432
4,564
6,137
12,279
138,182
1,170,968
432,817
270,937
..
254,970
161,822
2,107,481
4,376,705
15,832
103,840
29,509
969,795
3,505
4,008
24,001
725
58,333
38,328
7,326
3,552
180,714
6,863
2,644
893,364
4,396
73,275
7,752
..

Agricultural tchr
productivity
Agricultural value
added per worker
2000 $

Value added as % of GDP
Household
final cons.
expenditure
Agriculture Industry

2000–07

1990–92

2003–05

2007

11.5
5.3
4.5
13.1
4.7
12.7
3.3
1.9
17.2
5.8
8.3
1.9
3.8
3.6
5.3
3.3
5.7
5.8
2.7
9.8
3.5
2.7
0.1
12.2
4.5
10.2
5.2
4.5
5.0
4.1
5.2
0.2
4.8
4.5
1.8
4.8
5.0
4.5
2.7
2.3
7.5
3.1
1.7
8.3
1.1
5.5
4.3
3.6
2.8
0.2
5.3
4.0
7.8
5.1
5.9
–11.4
5.2
3.3
0.8
1.7
6.3
10.0
4.4
4.7
4.0
6.6
3.3
–2.7
3.7
8.0
3.3
3.2
5.1
5.4
5.1
2.6
6.5
4.9
8.0
9.2

..
778
1,911
165
6,767
1,476b
20,838
12,048
1,084b
254
1,977b
21,479
326
670
..
1,506
2,500
110
108
..
389
28,243
287
173
3,600
254
..
3,405
184
..
3,143
598
4,921b
..
15,190
2,268
1,686
1,528
1,633
..
146
18,822
22,234
2,443b
13,724
293
7,668
2,119
142
..
1,193
4,105
324
484
1,954
..
..
..
11,542
20,445
1,892
1,795b
333
5,679
675b
360
..
..
..
..
186
72
3,803
208
574
2,256
1,286b
1,430
109
..

..
1,449
2,225
174
10,072
3,692
29,924
22,203
1,143
338
3,153
41,631
519
773
8,270
3,126
7,159
173
70
306
646
43,055
381
215
5,308
401
..
2,847
149
..
4,499
795
9,987
5,423
40,780
4,586
1,676
2,072
1,638
61
158
31,214
44,017
1,790
26,549
320
9,011
2,350
190
..
1,483
6,987
392
583
2,542
1,756
17,879
..
23,967
35,517
1,360
1,557
332
11,286
979
458
30,099
..
..
4,703
174
116
5,126
241
356
2,792
816
1,775
153
..

36
23
8
10
8
18
3
2
6
19
9
1
32
14
10
5
8
33
35
30
19
..
56
23
4
12
0
11
42
5
9
23
7
3
2
12
7
13
11
18
46
3
2
11
1
36
3
12
17
..
13
4
18
14
9
..
2
..
2
2
3
7
23
3
33
42
6
66
..
5
27
34
9
37
13
4
17
12
28
..

2007
24
22
61
68
36
44
28
31
62
29
40
24
13
32
26
31
33
22
20
26
29
..
16
44
48
48
9
29
28
60
31
26
32
39
26
28
35
36
29
24
13
32
21
24
30
25
21
27
45
..
28
29
29
47
42
..
36
..
27
30
32
44
19
39
20
32
23
16
..
33
15
20
51
24
47
25
15
29
27
..

General gov’t.
Gross
final cons.
capital
expenditure formation

External
balance of
goods and
services

GDP implicit
deflator

Services

% of GDP

% of GDP

% of GDP

% of GDP

Avg. annual
% growth

2007

2007

2007

2007

2007

2000–07

39
56
30
22
56
38
69
67
32
53
51
75
54
54
64
64
59
44
45
44
52
..
28
32
48
40
91
60
29
35
60
51
61
58
72
60
58
51
60
58
40
65
77
65
69
38
76
60
38
..
58
66
53
39
49
..
62
..
71
69
65
49
58
58
47
26
71
18
..
61
58
45
41
39
41
71
67
59
45
..

111
90
34
59
59
74
57
56
32
77
62
53
78
68
76
48
75
75
91
82
73
55
88
60
55
34
60
63
82
29
75
73
56
48
49
80
67
75
93
81
84
51
57
75
58
78
68
87
84
91
79
66
55
63
47
..
44
56
59
57
89
48
75
55
101
65
89
86
..
66
81
71
50
76
61
71
97
58
72
..

10
9
12
..a
12
9
18
18
13
6
20
23
15
13
24
28
12
22
29
3
9
19
10
6
10
14
8
13
9
14
5
8
20
21
26
7
13
11
11
42
11
21
24
22
18
13
14
9
6
9
15
10
10
8
14
..
16
26
20
18
20
11
16
15
19
9
15
11
..
17
10
12
13
11
20
9
18
16
12
..

28
27
30
14
24
32
27
21
27
24
28
22
20
13
18
22
35
18
17
21
17
22
9
19
21
44
21
24
18
27
27
10
33
27
23
20
21
22
16
19
25
21
21
29
18
33
26
20
13
29
28
22
38
25
37
..
27
20
21
23
26
31
20
29
17
33
12
16
..
30
29
28
23
23
26
23
30
32
24
..

–49
–26
24
26
6
–15
–1
6
27
–7
–9
3
–13
5
–18
2
–22
–15
–37
–7
1
4
–7
15
14
8
11
–1
–9
30
–7
8
–8
3
3
–6
–1
–8
–21
–42
–19
7
–1
–26
5
–23
–8
–16
–2
–29
–23
2
–3
4
3
..
13
–1
–1
1
–35
9
–10
1
–37
–6
–16
–14
..
–12
–19
–11
14
–10
–7
–2
–44
–6
–8
..

5.9
3.5
8.8
55.3
12.3
4.2
3.7
1.8
9.3
4.3
27.6
2.0
2.9
6.8
3.8
8.5
5.0
2.2
8.4
3.8
2.2
2.0
1.9
8.2
7.0
3.7
–2.3
6.3
31.0
5.7
9.8
3.1
3.7
2.1
2.2
17.4
9.6
6.9
3.4
14.8
6.6
0.9
2.0
6.9
1.0
19.5
3.4
4.7
18.1
16.5
6.2
5.1
4.4
10.1
16.9
..
3.1
1.2
2.7
–1.2
3.0
14.3
6.0
1.7
5.8
9.4
2.0
10.0
21.0
2.9
11.6
21.3
4.8
3.6
11.3
6.3
11.5
1.1
7.8
21.2

10/10/08 10:39:50 AM

357

Selected world development indicators

Gross domestic product

Millions of Avg. annual
dollars
% growth

Nepal
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Norway
Pakistan
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Romania
Russian Federation
Rwanda
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Slovak Republic
Somalia
South Africa
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Sweden
Switzerland
Syrian Arab Republic
Tajikistan
Tanzaniac
Thailand
Togo
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
United States
Uruguay
Uzbekistan
Venezuela, R.B. de
Vietnam
West Bank and Gaza
Yemen, Rep. of
Zambia
Zimbabwe
World
Low income
Middle income
Lower middle income
Upper middle income
Low and middle income
East Asia & Pacific
Europe & Central Asia
Latin America & the
Caribbean
Middle East & North
Africa
South Asia
Sub-Saharan Africa
High income

Agricultural tchr
productivity
Agricultural value
added per worker
2000 $

2007

2000–07

10,207
754,203
129,372
5,676
4,170
165,690
381,951
143,597
19,740
6,261
12,004
109,088
144,129
420,321
220,241
165,980
1,291,011
3,320
381,683
11,151
41,581
1,672
161,347
74,932
..
277,581
1,429,226
32,354
47,632
444,443
415,516
38,081
3,712
16,181
245,818
2,493
35,020
657,091
12,933
11,214
140,484
129,702
2,727,806
13,811,200
23,087
22,308
228,071
71,216
4,007
22,523
11,363
3,418
54,347,038t
810,300
13,342,194
6,888,343
6,450,429
14,155,882
4,438,135
3,155,221
3,444,374

3.2
1.6
3.2
3.5
3.9
6.7
2.5
5.8
6.0
2.4
3.3
5.4
5.1
4.1
0.8
6.1
6.6
5.8
4.1
4.5
5.5
11.2
5.8
6.0
..
4.3
3.4
5.3
7.1
2.8
1.6
4.5
8.8
6.7
5.4
2.6
4.8
5.9
..
5.7
7.6
8.2
2.6
2.7
3.3
6.2
4.7
7.8
0.4
4.0
–5.7
–4.4
3.2w
5.6
6.2
8.0
4.3
6.2
8.9
6.1
3.6

1990–92
191
24,914
19,204
..
152
..
19,500
593
2,363
500
1,596
930
905
1,502b
4,612
2,196
1,825b
168
7,875
225
..
..
22,695
..
..
1,786
9,511
679
418
21,463
22,344
2,344
397b
238
497
312
2,422
..
1,222b
184
1,195b
10,454
22,659
20,793
5,714
1,272b
4,483
214
..
271
159
240
730w
259
454
370
2,134
417
303
1,588
2,155

2003–05
207
42,198
25,109
2,071
157b
..
37,776
695
3,914
595
2,052
1,498
1,075
2,182
5,980
4,646
2,519
182
15,780
215
..
..
40,419
5,026
..
2,484
19,030
702
666
33,023
23,418
3,261
465
295
621
347
2,719
1,846
..
229
1,702
25,841
26,933
41,797
7,973
1,800
6,292
305
..
328b
204
222
911w
321
654
509
2,954
583
446
2,109
3,053

828,691

4.5

1,583

1,438,594
842,914
40,197,253

7.3
5.0
2.4

335
246
14,586

Value added as % of GDP
Household
final cons.
expenditure
Agriculture Industry
2007

2007

General gov’t.
Gross
final cons.
capital
expenditure formation

External
balance of
goods and
services

GDP implicit
deflator

Services

% of GDP

% of GDP

% of GDP

% of GDP

Avg. annual
% growth

2007

2007

2007

2000–07

9
25
18
9
12
..
19
10
7
12
9
9
10
17
21
14
17
11
23
10
22
13
10
18
..
20
18
15
14
27
11
12
9
16
10
10
13
12
13
14
15
11
22
16
11
16
11
6
33
..
10
27
17w
9
15
13
17
15
13
16
17

25
20
25
29
23
..
22
23
23
20
21
20
15
22
22
22
25
22
22
32
25
17
23
27
..
20
31
27
24
18
22
16
23
17
30
18
23
22
23
24
22
24
18
19
18
20
24
35
23
..
24
17
22w
24
25
35
23
25
38
24
22

2007

2007

35
2
..
20
..
33
2
20
7
36
26
6
14
4
3
8
5
36
3
15
13
44
0
3
..
3
3
12
32
1
1
20
21
45
11
43
11
9
..
29
7
2
1
1
9
24
..
20
..
..
22
19
3w
25
8
13
5
10
12
7
5

16
25
..
30
..
39
45
27
16
45
20
35
31
30
25
26
39
14
65
22
26
24
31
37
..
31
30
30
28
29
28
32
28
17
44
23
27
28
..
18
32
56
24
23
32
27
..
42
..
..
38
24
28w
28
32
41
31
32
47
33
29

49
73
..
51
..
28
54
54
77
19
54
59
55
66
72
65
57
50
32
63
62
32
69
60
..
66
67
58
41
70
70
48
51
37
45
34
62
63
..
53
61
42
75
76
59
49
..
38
..
..
40
57
69w
48
59
46
64
59
41
60
66

82
47
60
92
75
..
41
75
71
47
74
63
80
63
65
77
50
85
28
76
73
84
38
55
..
64
58
68
68
47
60
71
113
73
57
85
64
71
46
80
66
46
64
71
73
54
48
67
96
..
59
72
61w
74
60
49
59
61
41
61
60

2,205

11

35

53

62

14

26

–1

406
281
25,456

18
15
2

29
32
26

53
54
72

59
67
62

10
16
18

35
21
21

–4
–3
–1

–16
8
–3
–30
–9
9
18
–8
–1
21
–4
8
–5
–1
–8
–13
8
–18
27
–18
–20
–14
29
0
..
–4
–6
–10
–6
8
7
2
–45
–6
4
–13
0
–5
17
–19
–4
18
–4
–6
–2
10
17
–8
–52
..
6
–16
0w
–6
0
3
1
–1
7
–1
1

5.6
2.1
2.4
7.6
2.1
17.8
4.0
6.5
1.8
7.2
10.6
3.8
5.1
2.4
3.0
18.0
16.7
9.7
8.1
2.2
19.5
8.9
1.0
3.9
..
6.6
4.0
10.0
9.6
1.5
0.9
6.2
20.5
9.0
2.9
0.8
2.7
18.8
..
6.2
14.0
4.9
2.6
2.6
9.4
26.5
26.8
6.7
3.0
13.5
18.3
232.0

a. Data on general government final consumption expenditure are not available separately; they are included in household final consumption expenditure. b. Data for all three
years are not available. c. Data refer to mainland Tanzania only.

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 357

10/10/08 10:39:51 AM

358
Table 4

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9
Trade, aid, and finance
Merchandise trade
Exports

Afghanistan
Albania
Algeria
Angola
Argentina
Armenia
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bangladesh
Belarus
Belgium
Benin
Bolivia
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Brazil
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Central African Republic
Chad
Chile
China
Hong Kong, China
Colombia
Congo, Dem. Rep. of
Congo, Rep. of
Costa Rica
Côte d’Ivoire
Croatia
Czech Republic
Denmark
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Egypt, Arab Rep. of
El Salvador
Eritrea
Ethiopia
Finland
France
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Guatemala
Guinea
Haiti
Honduras
Hungary
India
Indonesia
Iran, Islamic Rep. of
Iraq
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Korea, Rep. of
Kyrgyz Republic
Lao PDR
Lebanon
Liberia
Libya
Lithuania
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Mali
Mauritania
Mexico
Moldova
Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 358

Imports

Manufactured High technology
exports
exports

$ millions

$ millions

% of total
merchandise
exports

2007

2007

2006

480
1,072
59,518
38,100
55,933
1,219
141,079
162,204
9,300
12,360
24,339
432,327
590
4,485
4,155
160,649
18,450
660
55
4,400
3,750
418,493
195
3,450
68,296
1,217,939e
349,663
29,360
2,600
6,100
9,367
8,400
12,360
122,414
103,307
6,700
13,751
16,201
3,980
15
1,290
89,656
552,193
1,240
1,326,521
4,320
23,574
6,926
1,100
550
2,160
94,160
145,228
118,163
83,000
36,400
121,068
54,065
491,532
712,839
5,760
46,540
4,140
371,554
1,105
980
3,574
157
45,000
17,173
1,190
670
176,211
1,620
1,360
272,044
1,370
14,646
2,650
5,350

2,950
4,196
27,439
11,400
44,780
3,282
165,331
161,800
6,050
18,470
28,674
415,752
1,110
3,446
9,726
126,581
30,034
1,700
350
5,300
3,760
389,670
230
1,500
46,108
955,845
370,733
32,897
2,950
2,900
12,955
6,100
25,830
117,980
99,375
13,100
13,565
27,064
8,677
515
5,320
81,145
613,224
5,217
1,059,439
7,980
75,553
13,578
1,190
1,550
6,760
94,792
216,682
91,715
45,000
29,020
81,678
58,950
504,591
620,967
13,310
32,940
9,210
356,648
2,475
1,400
12,251
490
8,600
24,116
2,590
1,380
146,982
2,000
1,510
296,578
3,720
31,468
3,210
3,250

..
27
1
..
32
56
23
80
8
92
50
77
9
7
62
51
53
8
6
97
3
56
36
..
11
92e
91
37
..
..
65
15
66
89
65
..
10
21
55
..
..
81
79
48
83
31
52
35
..
..
21
84
70
45
10
..
85
82
85
91
71
13
26
89
46
..
70
..
..
58
41
13
74
10
0
76
31
68
5
..

Current
account
balance

Foreign direct
investment
net inflows

Official
development
assistancea

% of
manufactured
exports

$ millions

$ millions

$ per capita

Total $
millions

2006

2007

2006

2006

2006

..
13
2
..
7
1
12
13
2
0
3
8c
0
4
3
12
6
10
4
0
3
15
0
..
7
30
11
4
..
..
45
42
10
14
20
..
8
1
3
..
..
22
21
16
17
0
11
3
..
..
1
24
5
13
6
..
34
14
7
22
1
21
3
32
3
..
2
..
..
8
1
11
54
4
..
19
5
10
2
..

..
–671
..
10,690
7,210
–571
–56,783
12,031
9,019
1,196
–2,944
8,254
–226
1,319
–1,939
1,460
–8,592
..
–135
–506
..
12,815
..
..
7,200
249,866
27,405
–5,851
..
903
–1,499
–146
–4,412
–4,586
4,279
–2,231
1,503
2,635
–855
..
–1,786
11,402
–30,567
–1,931
150,746
–1,040
–29,565
–1,592
..
1
–195
–7,421
–9,415
11,009
..
..
–12,695
4,994
–51,032
210,490
–1,909
–7,184
–526
5,954
–234
..
–2,046
–138
22,170
–3,218
–554
..
28,931
–231
..
–1,993
–695
1,851
–634
802

..
325
1,795
–38
4,840
343
26,599
157
–584
697
354
61,990
63
240
423
18,782
5,172
26
0
483
309
69,068
24
700
7,952
78,095
42,891
6,463
180
344
1,469
315
3,376
6,021
3,343
1,183
271
10,043
204
4
364
5,311
81,045
1,060
43,410
435
5,401
354
108
160
385
6,098
17,453
5,580
901
..
–882
14,302
38,884
–6,784
3,219
6,143
51
3,645
182
187
2,794
–82
..
1,812
230
30
6,064
185
–3
19,222
242
2,699
154
279

..
101
6
10
3
71
..
..
24
8
7
..
43
62
126
0
..
61
51
37
93
..
31
27
5
1
..
22
34
69
5
13
45
..
..
6
14
12
23
28
25
..
..
81
..
51
..
37
18
62
84
..
1
6
2
..
..
..
..
..
105
11
26
..
60
63
174
75
6
..
39
49
9
69
62
2
60
34
77
3

Domestic
credit provided by
banking
Present
sector
value % of
Net migration
GNI
% of GDP
thousands

External debt

1,771
2,340
5,583
9,563
122,190
2,073
..
..
1,900
20,521
6,124
..
824
5,292
5,669
194,150
20,925
1,142
1,411
3,527
3,171
..
1,020
1,772
47,977
322,845
..
39,698
11,201
6,130
6,832
13,840
37,480
..
..
8,905
16,536
29,339
9,136
800
2,326
..
..
1,964
..
3,192
..
5,496
3,281
1,189
4,076
107,677
153,075
130,956
20,113
..
..
..
..
..
8,000
74,148
6,534
..
2,382
2,985
23,963
2,674
..
18,955
1,453
850
52,526
1,436
1,630
160,700
2,416
18,493
3,265
6,828

2006

2007

2000–05b

d

0
64
–3
2
29
12
142
124
18
59
27
114
9
54
56
96
59
12
38
13
6
166
18
0
90
136
126
50
5
–10
48
21
83
55
207
54
19
91
46
139
47
85
123
32
126
33
95
42
16
25
51
75
63
41
48
..
199
76
129
294
124
41
34
110
15
8
190
92
–70
61
9
16
117
15
..
43
40
92
10
28

1,112
–110
–140
175
–100
–100
593
180
–100
–500
..
180
99
–100
115
–229
–43
100
192
10
6
1,041
–45
219
30
–1,900
300
–120
–237
–10
84
–339
100
67
46
–148
–400
–525
–143
229
–140
33
722
–248
1,000
12
154
–300
–425
–140
–150
65
–1,350
–1,000
–1,250
–375
188
115
1,125
270
130
–200
25
–80
–75
–115
..
–119
10
–30
–5
–30
150
–134
30
–3,983
–250
–550
–20
–99

18
21
5
33
68
29
..
..
12
22
17
..
12d
20d
43
26
74
11d
105
48
4d
..
53d
23d
42
14
..
32
119d
108d
35
72d
93
..
..
35
52
28
55
49d
8d
..
..
22
..
21d
..
18
58d
22d
25d
100
15
45
10
..
..
..
..
..
58
132
26
..
52d
87
116
1,128d
..
79
13d
6d
39
15d
93d
21
65
30
12d
47

10/10/08 10:39:54 AM

359

Selected world development indicators

Merchandise trade
Exports

Nepal
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Norway
Pakistan
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Romania
Russian Federation
Rwanda
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Slovak Republic
Somalia
South Africa
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Sweden
Switzerland
Syrian Arab Republic
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand
Togo
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
United States
Uruguay
Uzbekistan
Venezuela, R.B. de
Vietnam
West Bank and Gaza
Yemen, Rep. of
Zambia
Zimbabwe
World
Low income
Middle income
Lower middle income
Upper middle income
Low and middle income
East Asia & Pacific
Europe & Central Asia
Latin America & the
Caribbean
Middle East & North
Africa
South Asia
Sub-Saharan Africa
High income

Imports

Manufactured High technology
exports
exports

$ millions

$ millions

% of total
merchandise
exports

2007

2007

2006

888
2,904
550,636
490,582
26,950
30,890
1,210
3,510
650
970
66,500
27,500
139,424
80,347
17,457
32,598
1,200
7,010
4,610
2,950
3,374
7,280
27,956
20,185
50,276
57,160
137,609
160,804
50,994
77,050
40,257
69,712
355,177
223,059
165
600
228,550
94,235
1,650
4,250
8,780
18,295
260
420
263,150
299,271e
58,082
60,103
..
..
69,788
90,990
241,962
373,585
7,750
10,840
8,160
8,450
168,223
150,039
171,621
160,798
11,330
14,820
1,468
2,455
2,005
5,337
152,469
141,347
690
1,450
15,029
18,980
107,154
169,987
8,920
4,460
1,530
3,350
49,100
60,440
154,000
121,100
435,615
617,178
1,163,183
2,016,978
4,480
5,480
8,040
4,470
69,165
48,591
48,387
60,830
..
..
7,160
5,890
4,876
4,014
2,050
2,420
13,899,267t 14,107,100t
230,215
251,819
3,919,104
3,641,914
2,179,289
1,947,080
1,738,728
1,690,142
4,149,329
3,893,700
1,783,695
1,475,731
874,122
935,854
750,092
732,907

..
66
27
9
15
..
16
81
10
..
16
14
87
79
74
79
17
..
8
44
..
..
80e
85
..
53f
76
70
0
78
91
32
..
18
76
58
75
42
..
21
73
..
77
79
32
..
5
50
..
1
6
38
74w
..
60
69
52
60
80
39
53

Current
account
balance

Foreign direct
investment
net inflows

Official
development
assistancea

% of
manufactured
exports

$ millions

$ millions

$ per capita

Total $
millions

2006

2007

2006

2006

2006

6
50,706
–10,233
–855
–312
24,202
64,070
–8,253
–1,577
640
–217
2,589
5,897
–15,794
–18,281
–23,136
78,310
–147
99,066
..
..
–101
36,326
..
..
–20,631
–145,275
–1,334
–4,722
28,413
72,354
920
–21
–1,442
14,921
–461
–634
–32,774
..
–745
–5,927
..
–115,243
–738,641
–186
..
20,001
–6,992
..
206
–505
..

–7
7,197
7,941
282
20
5,445
4,653
4,273
2,574
32
189
3,467
2,345
19,198
7,366
11,394
30,827
11
660
58
5,128
59
24,191
4,165
96
–120
20,167
480
3,534
27,299
27,185
600
339
474
9,010
57
3,270
20,070
731
392
5,604
..
139,745
180,580
1,346
164
–543
2,315
..
1,121
575
40
1,352,442s
20,380
334,242
162,047
172,195
354,621
104,972
114,318
70,457

..
28
11
7
11
..
19
1
0
..
8
2
68
4
9
4
9
..
1
6
4
..
58
6
..
6
6
2
1
16
22
1
..
0
27
0
4
..
..
34
3
..
34
30
3
..
2
5
..
5
2
2
20w
..
20
25
16
20
33
8
12

297,678

234,252

19

5

26,551

184,991
261,373
9,752,088

286,021
237,971
10,219,990

72
..
77

4
..
21

22,916
15,408
997,821

19
..
..
132
29
79
..
14
9
45
9
17
7
..
..
..
..
62
1
68
214
63
..
..
46
15
..
40
55
..
..
1
36
46
–3
12
43
8
5
52
10
..
..
..
6
6
2
22
384
13
122
21
16w
35
9
9
7
19
4
14
12

Domestic
credit provided by
banking
Present
sector
value % of
Net migration
GNI
% of GDP
thousands

External debt

3,409
..
..
4,391
805
7,693
..
35,909
9,989
1,675
3,426
28,174
60,324
125,831
..
55,114
251,067
419
..
1,984
13,831
1,428
..
27,085
2,836
35,549
..
11,446
19,158
..
..
6,502
1,154
4,240
55,233
1,806
18,480
207,854
881
1,264
49,887
..
..
..
9,804
3,892
44,635
20,202
..
5,563
2,325
4,677
..s
201,382
2,642,418
1,080,416
1,562,002
2,843,800
659,985
912,265
734,499

2006
27d
..
..
30d
8d
9
..
26
77
35
43
42
57
41
..
58
34
8d
..
14d
52
10d
..
58
..
15
..
40
77d
..
..
23
36
16d,g
30
68d
66
61
11
6d
58
..
..
..
66
26
34
33
..
25
9d
110
167w
30
77
102
55
75
119
38
63

2007

2000–05b

49
208
152
74
7
4
..
46
88
23
20
16
41
47
174
36
25
9
18
25
30
10
81
52
..
89
194
47
0
135
194
33
15
13
96
22
72
49
..
9
62
59
194
240
25
..
23
96
9
10
17
93
..wh
–2,858
–15,770
–11,295
–4,475
–18,629
–3,847
–1,798
–6,811

–100
110
102
–210
–29
–170
84
–1,239
8
..
–45
–510
–900
–200
276
–270
917
43
285
–100
–339
472
200
3
100
75
2,846
–442
–532
152
100
200
–345
–345
231
–4
–29
–30
–10
–5
–173
577
948
6,493
–104
–300
40
–200
11
–100
–82
–75

54

136,499

49

–2,618

6
52
0.1

227,303
173,248

60
48
196

–2,484
–1,070
18,522

a. The distinction between official aid, for countries on the Part II list of the OECD Development Assistance Committee (DAC), and official development assistance was dropped in
2005. Regional aggregates include data for economies not listed in the table. World and income group totals include aid not allocated by country or region. b. Total for the 5-year
period. c. Includes Luxembourg. d. Data are from debt sustainability analysis undertaken as part of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative. e. Includes re-exports. f.
Data on total exports and imports refer to South Africa only. Data on export commodity shares refer to the South African Customs Union (Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, and South
Africa). g. GNI refers to mainland Tanzania only. h. World total computed by the UN sums to zero, but because the aggregates shown here refer to World Bank definitions, regional
and income group totals do not equal zero.

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 359

10/10/08 10:39:54 AM

Table 5

Key indicators for other economies
Gross national income
(GNI)a
Population
age
Density
Avg. annual people per composition Millions of per capita
% ages 0–14
Thousands % growth
sq. km
dollars
dollars
Population

American Samoa
Andorra
Antigua and Barbuda
Aruba
Bahamas, The
Bahrain
Barbados
Belize
Bermuda
Bhutan
Botswana
Brunei Darussalam
Cape Verde
Cayman Islands
Channel Islands
Comoros
Cuba
Cyprus
Djibouti
Dominica
Equatorial Guinea
Estonia
Faeroe Islands
Fiji
French Polynesia
Gabon
Gambia, The
Greenland
Grenada
Guam
Guinea-Bissau
Guyana
Iceland
Isle of Man
Jamaica
Kiribati
Korea, Dem. People’s
Rep. of
Kuwait
Latvia
Lesotho
Liechtenstein
Luxembourg
Macao, China
Macedonia, FYR
Maldives
Malta
Marshall Islands
Mauritius
Mayotte
Micronesia, Fed. States
Monaco
Mongolia
Montenegro
Namibia
Netherlands Antilles
New Caledonia
Northern Mariana
Islands
Oman
Palau
Puerto Rico
Qatar
Samoa
San Marino
São Tomé and Príncipe
Seychelles
Slovenia
Solomon Islands
St. Kitts and Nevis
St. Lucia
St. Vincent and the
Grenadines
Suriname
Swaziland
Timor-Leste
Tonga
Trinidad and Tobago
Vanuatu
Virgin Islands (U.S.)

PPP gross national
income (GNI)b
Millions of
dollars

per capita
dollars

Gross
domestic
product per
capita %
growth

Life expectancy
at birth
Male
years

Carbon
Adult
dioxide
literacy rate emissions
Female % ages 15 per capita
years and older metric tons

2007

2000–2007

2007

2007

2007

2007

2007

2007

2006–2007

2006

2006

2005

2004

60
67
85
101
331
753
294
304
64
657
1,881
389
530
47
149
626
11,257
787
833
73
508
1,342
48
838
263
1,330
1,707
57
108
173
1,695
739
311
77
2,677
102
23,783

1.4c
0.5c
1.4
0.5c
1.3
2.1
0.4
2.8
0.4
2.3
1.2
2.2
2.3
2.1c
0.2
2.1
0.1
1.8
1.9
0.3
2.3
–0.3
0.2c
0.6
1.5
1.7
3.0
0.1
0.9
1.6
3.0
0.1
1.4
0.9
0.5
1.7
0.5

301
143
193
561
33
1,060
684
13
1,280
14
3
74
132
180
785
336
103
85
36
97
18
32
35
46
72
5
171
0h
318
321
60
4
3
136
247
126
198

..
..
..
22
27
25
18
37
..
31
35
29
38
..
16
42g
18
19
37
..
42
15
..
32
27
35
41
..
33
29
48
31
22
..
31
..
23

..
..
977
..
..
14,022
..
1,157
..
1,166
10,991
10,287
1,287
..
..
425
..
19,617
908
310
6,527
17,706
..
3,189
..
8,876
544
..
505
..
331
959
16,826
3,088
9,923
120
..

..d
..e
11,520
..e
..e
19,350
..e
3,800
..e
1,770
5,840
26,930
2,430
..e
..e
680
..d
24,940
1,090
4,250
12,860
13,200
..e
3,800
..e
6,670
320
..e
4,670
..e
200
1,300
54,100
40,600
3,710
1,170
..i

..
..
1,494
..
..
24,869
4,711f
1,886f
..
3,276
23,369
19,059
1,558
..
..
721
..
20,741
1,886
540f
10,773
26,399
..
3,666
..
17,395
1,951
..
747f
..
790
2,129f
10,592
2,568f
16,612
228f
..

..
..
17,620f
..
..
34,310
16,140f
6,200f
..
4,980
12,420
49,900
2,940
..
..
1,150
..
26,370
2,260
7,410f
21,230
19,680
..
4,370
..
13,080
1,140
..
6,910f
..
470
2,880f
34,060
33,750f
6,210
2,240f
..

..
..
2.9
..
..
5.6
..
0.1
..
17.5
2.5
2.9
4.6
..
..
–2.9
..
2.5
2.2
0.4
9.9
7.3
..
–5.0
..
4.0
4.3
..
3.0
..
–0.3
5.5
1.4
4.9
1.7
0.8
..

..
..
..
..
70
74
74
70
76
64
50
75
68
..
76
62g
76
77
53
..
50
67
77
66
71
56
58
..
..
73
45
63
79
..
70
..
65

..
..
..
..
76
77
80
74
81
67
50
80
74
..
81
64g
80
82
56
..
52
78
81
71
77
57
60
..
..
78
48
69
83
..
73
..
69

..
..
..
97
..
87
..
..
..
60
81
93
81
..
..
..
100
97
..
..
87
100
..
..
..
84
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..
..

5.1
..
5.1
21.8
6.3
23.8
4.4
2.8
8.7
0.7
2.4
24.1
0.6
7.1
..
0.2
2.3
9.1
0.5
1.5
11.5
14.0
13.7
1.3
2.7
1.1
0.2
10.0
2.0
25.0
0.2
2.0
7.6
..
4.0
0.3
3.4

2,663
2,276
2,006
35
480
480
2,037
305
409
67
1,263
194
111
33
2,612
600
2,074
191
242
84

2.8
–0.6
0.9
0.8c
1.3
1.2
0.2
1.6
0.7
3.3
0.9
3.8c
0.5
0.3c
1.2
–1.6
1.4
0.8
1.8
2.4c

149
37
66
220
185
17,026
80
1,018
1,279
369
622
518
159
16,769
2
43
3
239
13
182

23
14
40
..
18
14
19
32
17
..
24
..
38
..
27
19
37
21
26
..

80,221
22,595
2,007
..
36,420
..
7,052
977
6,216
204
6,878
..
274
..
3,362
3,109
6,970
..
..
..

31,640
9,930
1,000
..e
75,880
..e
3,460
3,200
15,310
3,070
5,450
..d
2,470
..e
1,290
5,180
3,360
..e
..e
..e

126,703
38,452
3,783
..
30,909
..
17,344
1,540
8,523
..
14,381
..
363f
..
8,246
6,175
10,608
..
..
..

49,970
16,890
1,890
..
64,400
..
8,510
5,040
20,990
..
11,390
..
3,270f
..
3,160
10,290
5,120
..
..
..

6.7
10.9
4.3
..
1.9
26.6
5.1
3.8
2.7
1.8
3.9
..
1.5
..
8.7
7.6
4.6
..
..
..

76
65
43
..
76
78
72
67
77
..
70
..
68
..
66
72
52
71
73
..

80
77
43
..
82
83
76
69
81
..
77
..
69
..
69
77
53
79
78
..

93
100
82
..
..
91
96
96
..
..
84
..
..
..
98
..
85
96
..
..

40.4
3.1
..
..
24.9
4.7
5.1
2.5
6.1
..
2.6
..
..
..
3.4
..
1.2
22.2
11.2
..

2,600
20
3,943
836
187
29
158
85
2,018
495
49
168
120

1.1
0.8c
0.5
4.3
0.7
1.1j
1.7
0.7
0.2
2.5
1.4
1.1
0.5

8
44
445
76
66
482
165
185
100
18
188
275
309

32
..
21
21
40
..
41
..
14
40
..
27
28

27,887
167
..
..
454
1,291
138
762
42,306
363
470
929
507

11,120
8,210
..e
..e
2,430
45,130
870
8,960
20,960
730
9,630
5,530
4,210

49,487
..
..
..
735f
1,046f
258
1,313f
53,756
831f
650f
1,584f
863f

19,740
..
..
..
3,930f
37,080f
1,630
15,450f
26,640
1,680f
13,320f
9,430f
7,170f

4.6
2.0
..
1.8
2.2
3.5
4.1
5.8
5.5
3.2
2.5
2.0
6.2

74
..
74
75
68
79
63
69
74
63
..
73
69

77
..
83
76
75
85
67
76
81
64
..
76
74

81
..
90
89
99
..
85
92
100
..
..
..
..

12.5
11.9
0.5
69.2
0.8
..
0.6
6.6
8.1
0.4
2.7
2.3
1.7

458
1,145
1,066
101
1,333
226
108

0.7
1.3
4.4
0.4
0.4
2.5
0.0k

3
67
72
140
260
19
310

29
39
45
37
21
39
23

2,166
2,951
1,604
233
18,795
417
..

4,730
2,580
1,510
2,320
14,100
1,840
..e

3,499f
5,649
3,281f
367f
29,981
771f
..

7,640f
4,930
3,080f
3,650f
22,490
3,410f
..

4.7
1.7
4.1
–4.3
5.6
2.6
..

67
42
56
72
68
68
77

73
40
58
74
72
72
80

90
80
..
..
98
..
..

5.1
0.9
0.2
1.2
24.7
0.4
124.3

a. Calculated using the World Bank Atlas method. b. PPP is purchasing power parity; see Definitions. c. Data are for 2003–2007. d. Estimated to be upper middle ($3,706 to $11,455). e.
Estimated to be high income ($11,456 or more). f. The estimate is based on regression; others are extrapolated from the latest International Comparison Program benchmark estimates.
g. Includes the island of Mayotte. h. Less than 0.5. i. Estimated to be low income ($935 or less). j. Data are for 2004–2007. k. More than –0.05.

360

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 360

10/22/08 5:32:03 PM

Selected world development indicators

Technical notes
These technical notes discuss the sources
and methods used to compile the indicators
included in this edition of Selected World
Development Indicators. The notes follow
the order in which the indicators appear in
the tables.

Sources
The data published in the Selected World
Development Indicators are taken from
World Development Indicators 2008. Where
possible, however, revisions reported since
the closing date of that edition have been
incorporated. In addition, newly released
estimates of population and gross national
income (GNI) per capita for 2007 are
included in table 1 and table 5.
The World Bank draws on a variety of
sources for the statistics published in the
World Development Indicators. Data on
external debt for developing countries are
reported directly to the World Bank by
developing member countries through the
Debtor Reporting System. Other data are
drawn mainly from the United Nations and
its specialized agencies, from the International Monetary Fund (IMF), and from
country reports to the World Bank. Bank
staff estimates are also used to improve currentness or consistency. For most countries,
national accounts estimates are obtained
from member governments through World
Bank economic missions. In some instances
these are adjusted by staff to ensure conformity with international definitions and
concepts. Most social data from national
sources are drawn from regular administrative fi les, special surveys, or periodic
censuses.
For more detailed notes about the data,
please refer to the World Bank’s World
Development Indicators 2008.

Data consistency and reliability
Considerable effort has been made to standardize the data, but full comparability
cannot be assured, and care must be taken
in interpreting the indicators. Many factors
affect data availability, comparability, and
reliability: statistical systems in many
developing economies are still weak; statistical methods, coverage, practices, and defi-

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 361

361

nitions differ widely; and cross-country
and intertemporal comparisons involve
complex technical and conceptual problems that cannot be unequivocally resolved.
Data coverage may not be complete because
of special circumstances or for economies
experiencing problems (such as those stemming from confl icts) affecting the collection and reporting of data. For these
reasons, although the data are drawn from
the sources thought to be most authoritative, they should be construed only as indicating trends and characterizing major
differences among economies rather than
offering precise quantitative measures of
those differences. Discrepancies in data
presented in different editions ref lect
updates by countries as well as revisions to
historical series and changes in methodology. Thus readers are advised not to compare data series between editions or between
different editions of World Bank publications. Consistent time series are available
from the World Development Indicators
2008 CD-ROM and in WDI Online.

Ratios and growth rates
For ease of reference, the tables usually show
ratios and rates of growth rather than the
simple underlying values. Values in their
original form are available from the World
Development Indicators 2008 CD-ROM.
Unless otherwise noted, growth rates are
computed using the least-squares regression
method (see Statistical methods below).
Because this method takes into account all
available observations during a period, the
resulting growth rates reflect general trends
that are not unduly influenced by exceptional values. To exclude the effects of inflation, constant price economic indicators are
used in calculating growth rates. Data in
italics are for a year or period other than
that specified in the column heading—up to
two years before or after for economic indicators and up to three years for social indicators, because the latter tend to be collected
less regularly and change less dramatically
over short periods.

Constant price series
An economy’s growth is measured by the
increase in value added produced by the

10/10/08 10:39:57 AM

362

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

individuals and enterprises operating in
that economy. Thus, measuring real growth
requires estimates of GDP and its components valued in constant prices. The World
Bank collects constant price national
accounts series in national currencies and
recorded in the country’s original base year.
To obtain comparable series of constant
price data, it rescales GDP and value added
by industrial origin to a common reference
year, 2000 in the current version of the
World Development Indicators. This process
gives rise to a discrepancy between the rescaled GDP and the sum of the rescaled
components. Because allocating the discrepancy would give rise to distortions in
the growth rate, it is left unallocated.

Summary measures
The summary measures for regions and
income groups, presented at the end of most
tables, are calculated by simple addition
when they are expressed in levels. Aggregate
growth rates and ratios are usually computed
as weighted averages. The summary measures for social indicators are weighted by
population or subgroups of population,
except for infant mortality, which is weighted
by the number of births. See the notes on
specific indicators for more information.
For summary measures that cover many
years, calculations are based on a uniform
group of economies so that the composition
of the aggregate does not change over time.
Group measures are compiled only if the
data available for a given year account for at
least two-thirds of the full group, as defined
for the 2000 benchmark year. As long as
this criterion is met, economies for which
data are missing are assumed to behave
like those that provide estimates. Readers
should keep in mind that the summary
measures are estimates of representative
aggregates for each topic and that nothing
meaningful can be deduced about behavior
at the country level by working back from
group indicators. In addition, the estimation process may result in discrepancies
between subgroup and overall totals.

Table 1. Key indicators of development
Population is based on the de facto definition, which counts all residents, regardless

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 362

of legal status or citizenship, except for refugees not permanently settled in the country of asylum, who are generally considered
part of the population of the country of
origin.
Average annual population growth rate
is the exponential rate of change for the
period (see the section on Statistical methods below).
Population density is midyear population divided by land area. Land area is a
country’s total area excluding areas under
inland bodies of water and coastal waterways. Density is calculated using the most
recently available data on land area.
Population age composition, ages 0–14
refers to the percentage of the total population that is ages 0–14.
Gross national income (GNI) is the
broadest measure of national income; it
measures total value added from domestic
and foreign sources claimed by residents.
GNI comprises gross domestic product
(GDP) plus net receipts of primary income
from foreign sources. Data are converted
from national currency to current U.S. dollars using the World Bank Atlas method.
This involves using a three-year average
of exchange rates to smooth the effects of
transitory exchange rate fluctuations. (See
the section on Statistical methods below for
further discussion of the Atlas method.)
GNI per capita is GNI divided by midyear population. It is converted into current
U.S. dollars by the Atlas method. The World
Bank uses GNI per capita in U.S. dollars to
classify economies for analytical purposes
and to determine borrowing eligibility.
PPP gross national income, which is
GNI converted into international dollars
using purchasing power parity (PPP) conversion factors, is included because nominal
exchange rates do not always reflect international differences in relative prices. At the
PPP rate, one international dollar has the
same purchasing power over domestic GNI
that the U.S. dollar has over U.S. GNI. PPP
rates allow a standard comparison of real
price levels between countries, just as conventional price indexes allow comparison of
real values over time. The PPP conversion
factors used here are derived from price
surveys covering 146 countries conducted

10/10/08 10:39:58 AM

Selected world development indicators

in 2005 by the International Comparison
Program. For OECD countries, data come
from the most recent round of surveys,
completed in 1999; the rest are either from
the 1996 survey, or data from the 1993 or
earlier round and extrapolated to the 1996
benchmark. Estimates for countries not
included in the surveys are derived from
statistical models using available data.
PPP GNI per capita is PPP GNI divided
by midyear population.
Gross domestic product (GDP) per
capita growth is based on GDP measured
in constant prices. Growth in GDP is considered a broad measure of the growth of
an economy. GDP in constant prices can be
estimated by measuring the total quantity
of goods and services produced in a period,
valuing them at an agreed set of base year
prices, and subtracting the cost of intermediate inputs, also in constant prices. See the
section on Statistical methods for details of
the least-squares growth rate.
Life expectancy at birth is the number
of years a newborn infant would live if patterns of mortality prevailing at its birth
were to stay the same throughout its life.
Data are presented for males and females
separately.
Adult literacy rate is the percentage of
persons aged 15 and above who can, with
understanding, read and write a short,
simple statement about their everyday life.
In practice, literacy is difficult to measure.
To estimate literacy using such a defi nition requires census or survey measurements under controlled conditions. Many
countries estimate the number of literate
people from self-reported data. Some use
educational attainment data as a proxy but
apply different lengths of school attendance
or level of completion. Because defi nition
and methodologies of data collection differ
across countries, data need to be used with
caution.
Carbon dioxide emissions (CO2) measures those emissions stemming from the
burning of fossil fuels and the manufacture
of cement. These include carbon dioxide
produced during consumption of solid,
liquid, and gas fuels and from gas flaring.
Carbon dioxide per capita is CO2 divided
by the mid-year population.

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 363

363

The Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center (CDIAC), sponsored by the U.S.
Department of Energy, calculates annual
anthropogenic emissions of CO2 . These
calculations are derived from data on fossil fuel consumption, based on the World
Energy Data Set maintained by the UNSD,
and from data on world cement manufacturing, based on the Cement Manufacturing Data Set maintained by the U.S. Bureau
of Mines. Each year the CDIAC recalculates
the entire time series from 1950 to the present, incorporating its most recent findings
and the latest corrections to its database.
Estimates exclude fuels supplied to ships
and aircraft engaged in international
transportation because of the difficulty of
apportioning these fuels among the countries benefiting from that transport.
Table 2. Millennium Development Goals:
eradicating poverty and improving lives
Share of poorest quintile in national consumption or income is the share of the
poorest 20 percent of the population in
consumption or, in some cases, income. It
is a distributional measure. Countries with
more unequal distributions of consumption (or income) have a higher rate of poverty for a given average income. Data are
from nationally representative household
surveys. Because the underlying household
surveys differ in method and type of data
collected, the distribution data are not
strictly comparable across countries. The
World Bank staff have made an effort to
ensure that the data are as comparable as
possible. Wherever possible, consumption
has been used rather than income.
Prevalence of child malnutrition is the
percentage of children under five whose
weight for age is less than minus two standard deviations from the median for the
international reference population ages
0–59 months. The table presents data for
the new child growth standards released by
the World Health Organization (WHO) in
2006. Estimates of child malnutrition are
from national survey data. The proportion
of children who are underweight is the most
common indicator of malnutrition. Being
underweight, even mildly, increases the risk
of death and inhibits cognitive development

10/10/08 10:39:58 AM

364

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

in children. Moreover, it perpetuates the
problem from one generation to the next,
as malnourished women are more likely to
have low-birth-weight babies.
Primary completion rate is the percentage of students completing the last
year of primary school. It is calculated by
taking the total number of students in the
last grade of primary school, minus the
number of repeaters in that grade, divided
by the total number of children of official
graduation age. The primary completion
rate reflects the primary cycle as defined by
the International Standard Classification of
Education (ISCED), ranging from three or
four years of primary education (in a very
small number of countries) to five or six
years (in most countries) and seven (in a
small number of countries). Because curricula and standards for school completion
vary across countries, a high rate of primary
completion does not necessarily mean high
levels of student learning.
Ratio of girls to boys enrollments in
primary and secondary school is the ratio
of the female gross enrollment rate in primary and secondary school to the male
gross enrollment rate.
Eliminating gender disparities in education would help to increase the status and
capabilities of women. This indicator is an
imperfect measure of the relative accessibility of schooling for girls. With a target date
of 2005, this is the first of the targets to fall
due. School enrollment data are reported
to the UN Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) Institute for
Statistics by national education authorities.
Primary education provides children with
basic reading, writing, and mathematics
skills along with an elementary understanding of such subjects as history, geography, natural science, social science, art, and
music. Secondary education completes the
provision of basic education that began at
the primary level and aims at laying foundations for lifelong learning and human
development by offering more subject-or
skill-oriented instruction using more specialized teachers.
Under-five mortality rate is the probability that a newborn baby will die before
reaching age five, if subject to current age-

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 364

specific mortality rates. The probability
is expressed as a rate per 1,000. The main
sources of mortality date are vital registration systems and direct or indirect estimates based on sample surveys or censuses.
To produce harmonized estimates of underfive mortality rates that make use of all
available information in a transparent way,
a methodology that fits a regression line to
the relationship between mortality rates
and their reference dates using weighted
least squares was developed and adopted by
both UNICEF and the World Bank.
Births attended by skilled health staff
are the percentage of deliveries attended
by personnel trained to give the necessary
supervision, care, and advice to women
during pregnancy, labor, and the postpartum period; to conduct deliveries on their
own; and to care for newborns. The share
of births attended by skilled health staff
is an indicator of a health system’s ability to provide adequate care for pregnant
women. Data are from UNICEF and household surveys. Good prenatal and postnatal
care improves maternal health and reduces
maternal and infant mortality. But data
may not reflect such improvements because
health information systems are often weak,
maternal deaths are underreported, and
rates of maternal mortality are difficult to
measure.
Contraceptive prevalence rate is the
percentage of women married or in-union
ages 15–49 who are practicing, or whose
sexual partners are practicing, any form of
contraception. Safe and effective contraception is one of the indispensable means
to achieve reproductive health, helping
women avoid unintended pregnancies
while preventing sexually transmitted diseases. Contraceptive prevalence reflects all
methods—ineffective traditional methods
as well as highly effective modern methods.
Contraceptive prevalence rates are obtained
mainly from household surveys.
Prevalence of HIV is the percentage of
people ages 15–49 who are infected with
HIV. Adult HIV prevalence rates reflect the
rate of HIV infection in each country’s population. Low national prevalence rates can
be very misleading, however. They often
disguise serious epidemics that are initially

10/10/08 10:39:58 AM

Selected world development indicators

concentrated in certain localities or among
specific population groups and threaten
to spill over into the wider population. In
many parts of the developing world, most
new infections occur in young adults, with
young women especially vulnerable. The
estimates of HIV prevalence are based on
extrapolations from data collected through
surveys and from surveillance of small,
nonrepresentative groups.

Table 3. Economic activity
Gross domestic product (GDP) is gross
value added, at purchasers’ prices, by all
resident producers in the economy plus any
taxes and minus any subsidies not included
in the value of the products. It is calculated
without deducting for depreciation of fabricated assets or for depletion or degradation of natural resources. Value added is the
net output of an industry after adding up
all outputs and subtracting intermediate
inputs. The industrial origin of value added
is determined by the International Standard Industrial Classification (ISIC) revision 3. The World Bank conventionally uses
the U.S. dollar and applies the average official exchange rate reported by the IMF for
the year shown. An alternative conversion
factor is applied if the official exchange rate
is judged to diverge by an exceptionally
large margin from the rate effectively
applied to transactions in foreign currencies and traded products.
Gross domestic product average annual
growth rate is calculated from constant
price GDP data in local currency.
Agricultural productivity refers to the
ratio of agricultural value added, measured
in constant 1995 U.S. dollars, to the number of workers in agriculture.
Value added is the net output of an
industry after adding up all outputs and
subtracting intermediate inputs. The industrial origin of value added is determined by
the International Standard Industrial Classification (ISIC) revision 3.
Agriculture value added corresponds
to ISIC divisions 1–5 and includes forestry
and fishing.
Industry value added comprises mining, manufacturing, construction, electricity, water, and gas (ISIC divisions 10–45).

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 365

365

Services value added correspond to ISIC
divisions 50–99.
Household fi nal consumption expenditure is the market value of all goods
and services, including durable products
(such as cars, washing machines, and home
computers), purchased by households. It
excludes purchases of dwellings but includes
imputed rent for owner-occupied dwellings.
It also includes payments and fees to governments to obtain permits and licenses.
Here, household consumption expenditure includes the expenditures of nonprofit
institutions serving households, even when
reported separately by the country. In practice, household consumption expenditure
may include any statistical discrepancy in
the use of resources relative to the supply
of resources.
General government final consumption
expenditure includes all government current expenditures for purchases of goods
and services (including compensation of
employees). It also includes most expenditures on national defense and security,
but excludes government military expenditures that are part of government capital
formation.
Gross capital formation consists of
outlays on additions to the fi xed assets of
the economy plus net changes in the level
of inventories and valuables. Fixed assets
include land improvements (fences, ditches,
drains, and so on); plant, machinery, and
equipment purchases; and the construction
of buildings, roads, railways, and the like,
including commercial and industrial buildings, offices, schools, hospitals, and private
dwellings. Inventories are stocks of goods
held by firms to meet temporary or unexpected fluctuations in production or sales,
and “work in progress.” According to the
1993 System of National Accounts (SNA),
net acquisitions of valuables are also considered capital formation.
External balance of goods and services is
exports of goods and services less imports of
goods and services. Trade in goods and services comprise all transactions between residents of a country and the rest of the world
involving a change in ownership of general
merchandise, goods sent for processing and
repairs, nonmonetary gold, and services.

10/10/08 10:39:58 AM

366

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

The GDP implicit deflator ref lects
changes in prices for all final demand
categories, such as government consumption, capital formation, and international
trade, as well as the main component, private final consumption. It is derived as the
ratio of current to constant price GDP. The
GDP deflator may also be calculated explicitly as a Paasche price index in which the
weights are the current period quantities of
output.
National accounts indicators for most
developing countries are collected from
national statistical organizations and central banks by visiting and resident World
Bank missions. Data for high-income economies come from the OECD.

Table 4. Trade, aid, and finance
Merchandise exports show the free on
board (f.o.b.) value of goods provided to the
rest of the world valued in U.S. dollars.
Merchandise imports show the c.i.f.
value of goods (the cost of the goods including insurance and freight) purchased from
the rest of the world valued in U.S. dollars.
Data on merchandise trade come from the
World Trade Organization (WTO) in its
annual report.
Manufactured exports comprise the
commodities in Standard Industrial Trade
Classification (SITC) sections 5 (chemicals), 6 (basic manufactures), 7 (machinery
and transport equipment), and 8 (miscellaneous manufactured goods), excluding
division 68.
High-technology exports are products
with high research and development (R&D)
intensity. They include high-technology
products such as in aerospace, computers,
pharmaceuticals, scientific instruments,
and electrical machinery.
Current account balance is the sum
of net exports of goods and services, net
income, and net current transfers. Data are
drawn from the IMF’s Balance of Payments
Statistics Yearbook.
Foreign direct investment is net inflows
of investment to acquire a lasting management interest (10 percent or more of voting stock) in an enterprise operating in an
economy other than that of the investor. It
is the sum of equity capital, re-investment

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 366

of earnings, other long-term capital, and
short-term capital, as shown in the balance
of payments. Data on FDI are based on
balance-of-payments data reported by the
IMF, supplemented by World Bank staff
estimates using data reported by the United
Nations Conference on Trade and Development, and official national sources.
Official development assistance or official aid from the high-income members of
the OECD are the main source of official
external fi nance for developing countries,
but official development assistance (ODA)
is also disbursed by some important donor
countries that are not members of OECD’s
Development Assistance Committee
(DAC). DAC has three criteria for ODA: it
is undertaken by the official sector; it promotes economic development or welfare
as a main objective; and it is provided on
concessional terms, with a grant element
of at least 25 percent on loans (calculated
at a 10-percent discount rate). Official
development assistance comprises grants
and loans, net of repayments, that meet
the DAC defi nition of ODA and are made
to countries and territories on of the DAC
list of aid recipients. The new DAC list of
recipients is organized on more objective
needs-based criteria than its predecessors,
and includes all low- and middle-income
countries, except those that are members of
the G8 or the EU (including countries with
a firm date for EU admission).
Total external debt is debt owed to
nonresidents repayable in foreign currency, goods, or services. It is the sum of
public, publicly guaranteed, and private
non-guaranteed long-term debt, use of IMF
credit, and short-term debt. Short-term
debt includes all debt having an original
maturity of one year or less and interest in
arrears on long-term debt.
Present value of debt is the sum of
short-term external debt plus the discounted sum of total debt service payments due on public, publicly guaranteed,
and private nonguaranteed long-term
external debt over the life of existing
loans. Data on external debt come mainly
from reports to the World Bank through
its Debtor Reporting System via member
countries that have received IBRD loans

10/10/08 10:39:59 AM

Selected world development indicators

or IDA credits, with additional information from the fi les of the World Bank, the
IMF, the African Development Bank and
African Development Fund, the Asian
Development Bank and Asian Development Fund, and the Inter American
Development Bank. Summary tables of the
external debt of developing countries are
published annually in the World Bank’s
Global Development Finance.
Net migration is the total net number
of migrants during the period, that is, the
number of immigrants less the number of
emigrants, including both citizens and noncitizens. Data shown in the table are fiveyear estimates. Data are from the United
Nations Population Division’s World Population Prospects: The 2006 Revision.
Domestic credit provided by banking
sector includes all credit to various sectors on a gross basis, with the exception of
credit to the central government, which is
net. The banking sector includes monetary
authorities, deposit money banks, and
other banking institutions for which data
are available (including institutions that
do not accept transferable deposits but do
incur such liabilities as time and savings
deposits). Examples of other banking institutions include savings and mortgage loan
institutions and building and loan associations. Data are from the IMF’s International
Finance Statistics.

Table 5. Key indicators for other
economies
See Technical notes for table 1, key
indicators.

Statistical methods
This section describes the calculation of the
least-squares growth rate, the exponential
(endpoint) growth rate, and the World
Bank’s Atlas methodology for calculating
the conversion factor used to estimate GNI
and GNI per capita in U.S. dollars.

367

The least-squares growth rate, r, is estimated by fitting a linear regression trendline to the logarithmic annual values of the
variable in the relevant period. The regression equation takes the form
ln Xt = a + bt
which is equivalent to the logarithmic
transformation of the compound growth
equation,
Xt = Xo (1 + r) t
In this equation, X is the variable, t
is time, and a = log Xo and b = ln (1 + r)
are the parameters to be estimated. If b*
is the least-squares estimate of b, the average annual growth rate, r, is obtained as
[exp(b*) – 1] and is multiplied by 100 to
express it as a percentage.
The calculated growth rate is an average
rate that is representative of the available
observations over the entire period. It does
not necessarily match the actual growth
rate between any two periods.
Exponential growth rate
The growth rate between two points in time
for certain demographic data, notably labor
force and population, is calculated from the
equation
r = ln (pn /p1)/n
where pn and p1 are the last and fi rst observations in the period, n is the number of
years in the period, and ln is the natural
logarithm operator. This growth rate is
based on a model of continuous, exponential growth between two points in time. It
does not take into account the intermediate values of the series. Note also that the
exponential growth rate does not correspond to the annual rate of change measured at a one-year interval which is given
by
(pn – pn – 1)/pn – 1

Least-squares growth rate
Least-squares growth rates are used wherever there is a sufficiently long time series to
permit a reliable calculation. No growth
rate is calculated if more than half the
observations in a period are missing.

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 367

World Bank Atlas method
In calculating GNI and GNI per capita in
U.S. dollars for certain operational purposes, the World Bank uses the Atlas conversion factor. The purpose of the Atlas

10/10/08 10:39:59 AM

368

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

conversion factor is to reduce the impact
of exchange rate fluctuations in the crosscountry comparison of national incomes.
The Atlas conversion factor for any year is
the average of a country’s exchange rate (or
alternative conversion factor) for that year
and its exchange rates for the two preceding
years, adjusted for the difference between
the rate of inflation in the country and that
in Japan, the United Kingdom, the United
States, and the Euro Zone. A country’s
inflation rate is measured by the change
in its GDP deflator. The inflation rate for
Japan, the United Kingdom, the United
States, and the Euro Zone, representing
international inflation, is measured by the
change in the SDR deflator. (Special drawing rights, or SDRs, are the IMF’s unit of
account.) The SDR deflator is calculated
as a weighted average of these countries’
GDP deflators in SDR terms, the weights
being the amount of each country’s currency in one SDR unit. Weights vary over
time because both the composition of the
SDR and the relative exchange rates for each
currency change. The SDR deflator is calculated in SDR terms first and then converted
to U.S. dollars using the SDR to dollar Atlas
conversion factor. The Atlas conversion factor is then applied to a country’s GNI. The
resulting GNI in U.S. dollars is divided by
the midyear population to derive GNI per
capita.
When official exchange rates are
deemed to be unreliable or unrepresentative of the effective exchange rate during
a period, an alternative estimate of the
exchange rate is used in the Atlas formula
(see below).

WDR09_22_SWDI.indd 368

The following formulas describe the calculation of the Atlas conversion factor for
year t :

and the calculation of GNI per capita in
U.S. dollars for year t:
Yt $ = (Yt /Nt)/et*
where e t* is the Atlas conversion factor
(national currency to the U.S. dollar) for
year t, et is the average annual exchange rate
(national currency to the U.S. dollar) for
year t, pt is the GDP deflator for year t, ptS$ is
the SDR deflator in U.S. dollar terms for
year t, Yt$ is the Atlas GNI per capita in U.S.
dollars in year t, Yt is current GNI (local
currency) for year t, and Nt is the midyear
population for year t.
Alternative conversion factors
The World Bank systematically assesses the
appropriateness of official exchange rates as
conversion factors. An alternative conversion factor is used when the official exchange
rate is judged to diverge by an exceptionally
large margin from the rate effectively applied
to domestic transactions of foreign currencies and traded products. This applies to
only a small number of countries, as shown
in the primary data documentation table in
World Development Indicators 2007. Alternative conversion factors are used in the Atlas
methodology and elsewhere in the Selected
World Development Indicators as single-year
conversion factors.

10/10/08 10:44:53 AM

Index

accessibility index, Mexico, 244b8.6
accidents, 191–92
ACP. See African, Caribbean, and Pacific (ACP) countries
administrative areas, economic activity link to development stages
in, 83–84, 85t2.1
ad valorem transport charges, 179
advanced urbanization, 25map6c, 26–27, 201, 202, 223–29
Africa, 265b9.3
disparities in lagging areas of, 80b2.3
language diversity in, 104–5
life expectancy in, 111f3.12
tariffs in, 99, 99f3.3
transport sector, 186, 187t6.1
African, Caribbean, and Pacific (ACP) countries, EPAs with EU,
265b9.3
agglomeration economies, 13–15, 26, 29, 34b0.1, 126
agriculture disperses and manufacturing clusters in, 132–33
amplified by density and attenuated by distance, 134–35
changes in to adapt to market forces, 142–44
China, 127b4.1
cities facilitation of, 134
clustering of services vs. clustering of manufacturing in,
133–34
computing index for, 55b1.3
essentials of, 129
examples of, 128t4.1
Indonesia, 131–32
and knowledge production, 184
and mobility factors, 85
multicountry, 279–80
principles for managing, 200–202
Sub-Saharan Africa, 284–86
theoretical advances recognized, 136–37
and theories of labor mobility, 158–59
variations in by city size and profile, 137–38
agglomeration indexes, 54–56, 57f1.3, 60
agriculture sector, 253
Belgium, 50
dispersing of as producers seek scale economies, 132–33
link to towns, 53–54
trade of agriculture products as entry point for regional
integration, 280
air pollution, 185b6.5, 190–91
air transport costs, 176
antidecentralization, 231b8.1
Arab Maghreb Union, 275
areas
concept of, 230
definition of subnational areas, 78b2.1
description of, 35
development policies of to integrate nations, 27–29

economic activity link to development stages in, 83–84, 85t2.1
as geographic scale, 3b1
local 1-square kilometer areas, 60
as units for government action, 201–2
Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), 195, 196
autarky, and labor mobility, 149

backyard capitalism, 135
balanced industrial growth, 90–91b2.5
Balkan region, 274
Bamako, Mali, 48–49
Bangkok, transport infrastructure, 223b7.12
barriers to trade, 99
Belgium, 50
Bogotá, Colombia, 21, 22, 223, 225map7.5
Bolivia, border divisions in, 102b3.2
Bombay, India, slums in, 204, 205b7.3
borders
Africa, 187
artificial borders, 105b3.4
Bolivia, 102b3.2
calculation of, 55b1.3
contrasted with divisions, 97–98
costs of border-crossing procedures, 189–90
cross-border migration, 152–53
cross-border production networks, 266
and economic impact of conflicts on, 105
fragmentation of, 12, 13f3c
and growth spillovers, 102b3.1
increase in, 96, 97f3.1
and institutional cooperation, 266–67
integration of pairs of large cities separated by national borders,
279–80
link of border restrictions to economic development, 97–98,
99f3.2
negative influence on trade, 46
openness of, 119–20
and patterns of labor mobility, 149–53
thickness of as obstacle to development, 265
and transport costs in Africa, 187
brain drains, 18, 147, 168, 168b5.9
brain gains, 168
Brazil
constitution and national unity in, 236b8.3
economic integration in, 241
internal migration in, 167b5.8
land use in, 204–5
local and national incentives in, 257
migration in, 15, 17
poor people in, 232–33
369

WDR09_23_index.indd 369

10/9/08 11:15:02 PM

370

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Brazil (continued)
poverty rates in, 28map7b, 232–33
road networks, 251
Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast,
38
Breaking New Ground, 214
Brussels, Belgium, 50
business services, imports in, 180–81
busways, 210, 223, 225map7.5
buyer-supplier networks, 177b6.2

Cambodia, rural-urban transformation in, 218, 219b79
Cameroon, rural-urban integration in, 220b7.11
Canada, 46, 79b2.2, 86
capital, 99–100
divisions as barrier to movement of, 171
and economic development, 84–85
capitalism, backyard capitalism, 135
capital mobility, 146–49, 171
capital restriction index, 100f3.4
the Caribbean, 274–75
education in, 156f5.4
transport costs, 192b6.7
Caribbean Community (CARICOM), 274–75
Caribbean Knowledge and Learning Network, 275
Caribbean Regional Negotiating Machinery, 274–75
CARICOM. See Caribbean Community (CARICOM)
Cassa per il Mezzogiorno, 184b6.4
Central American Common Market, 270
Central American Electricity Connection System, 270
Central Asia, integration in, 277, 278b9.4
Central European Free Trade Agreement, 274
checkpoints, Africa, 187
Chile, border divisions in, 102b3.2
China
and exporting industries, 94, 94map2.6
inequalities in per capita provincial gross product of, 89,
89f2.10
intermediate urbanization in, 221–22
investments in infrastructure, 227b7.14
migration of workers in, 13, 16map3, 17, 18
mobility with density in Hong Kong, China, 185b6.5
patterns of labor mobility in, 154–55b5.3
poverty rates, 28map7a
spatial integration in, 213
special economic zones in, 224b7.13, 254–55b8.10
trade policies, 76
and urbanization, 26b5, 217–18, 226
and urban renewal and redevelopment in, 142b4.6
circular causation, 171–72
cities
changes in to adapt to market forces, 142–44
China, 141–42
city-based growth, 137
empirical regularities of city-size distributions, 52b1.1
facilitation of scale economies in, 134
and importance of diversity and specialization in, 139b4.4

WDR09_23_index.indd 370

increase in population of, 12, 13b31
integration of pairs of large cities separated by national borders,
279–80
integration of slums into, 227–29
new city initiatives, 144–45
patterns of specialization and diversity among, 137–40
population of, 49–50
size of related to plant size, 21b4
and telecommunication costs, 140b4.5
urban density of, 45–46
world cities, 137
Cities Alliance, 229b7.15
civil wars, economic costs of, 105
climate change, and urbanization, 211b7.6
coastal areas, 93–94, 94map2.6
cohesion policies, 236–37
Colombia, freight transport, 251–52
commodities, export of, 118–19
communal systems
land, 219
property rights, 203–4
communication costs, 13, 18–20, 180, 184
commuter rail systems, 208b7.4
competition
and the invisible hand, 135–36
and network economies, 186
within same industry, 130–31
compulsory purchases, 207
computer and electronics sector, 127b4.1
concentration
conflicts and, 106
and economic geography, 41b0.4
of economic mass, 97, 238–40
of economic production, 8–10
geographic, 129b4.2
measures of, 60–62
pace and pattern of, 57–60
principles for managing, 200–202
promotion of in Japan, 208, 209b7.5
and transport costs, 183–84, 185b6.5
See also economic concentration
conflicts, 105, 106
congestion, 190
in intermediate urbanization, 220–23
reduction of, 207–8, 209b7.5
See also concentration
constitutions, emphasis on national unity in, 236b8.3
consumption, 166
convergence of, 10–12
in developing countries, 141–42
and economic development, 2
increase in for urban residents, 8–9
in leading areas, 9
rural-urban disparities in, 64–65
containerization, 177–79
corruption, 186, 274
Costa Rica, urban housing shortage, 214
cost discovery, 263b9.2

10/9/08 11:15:02 PM

Index

costs
distance-related, 75, 77
of doing business, 6b2
economic costs of conflict and territorial disputes, 105
shipping, 176–79
See also communication costs; transport costs
Côte d’Ivoire, 236b8.3
cotton, 280, 280map9.6
countries
with bigger and denser places, 61
description of, 35
and distance challenges for integration, 275–77
as geographic scale, 3b.1
impact of divisions on, 98–101
impact of transport costs on concentration within, 183–84,
185b6.5
integration options for market access, 273–75
resource-poor, 102b3.1
sea-locked, 103–4
size of, 101–3, 103b3.3
taxonomy to assist integration policies in, 241
See also landlocked countries
cropland per farmer, 132
cross-border migration, 152–53
cross-border production networks, 266
cultural divisions, 104–5
cultural facilities, 51, 52
cumulative causation, 2, 284
customs regimes, 188

Daegu, Korea, 220–23
decentralization, 221–22, 231, 257
vs. antidecentralization, 231b8.1
demand. See supply and demand
demographic development, 238
Deng Xiaoping, 73
Denmark, land reform to facilitate urbanization in, 203b7.2
density
agglomeration economies amplified by, 134–35
concentration link to development, 60–62
definition, 49–56
as dimension of development, 6b2, 7
hierarchy of, 49–50
institutions and infrastructure to overcome, 242–45, 246t8.1
in leading areas compared to distance in lagging areas, 78–80
link of demand management and public transportation to, 208,
210–12
measures of, 54–56
mobility with density in Hong Kong, China, 185b6.5
movement toward, 15
overview, 48–49
of population in United States, 44
reduction of during intermediate urbanization, 220–23
as spatial dimension, 36–37
spatially connective infrastructure to reduce distance to, 206–12
in Sub-Saharan Africa, 284–86
See also economic density

WDR09_23_index.indd 371

371

developed countries
impact of migration on, 161–68
and regional and global integration, 264–65
developing economies, 128
clustering of services vs. clustering of manufacturing in, 133–34
consumption in, 141-42
differences in, 93–95
dynamics of economic geography on, 120–21
economic growth in, 159–60
impact of migration on, 161–68
labor mobility patterns in, 155, 156t5.3
new cities in, 224b7.13
patterns of urbanization in, 71–72
regional and global integration in, 262–65
scale economies in, 132–33
slums in, 4map1, 5
spatial disparities in living standards in, 87–89
and transport and trade costs, 173
transport policies in, 184–92
development
assessing performance of policies for, 259t8.4
attributes of, 2–3
challenges of, 3–5
and concentration of economic wealth, 115–20
and density concentration, 60–62
dimensions of, 6–8
and distance, 6b2, 17, 36-37
and divergence and convergence of slums within cities, 66–70
and economic concentration, 57–60
findings concerning, 49
framework for policies that promote, 246t8.1
and international comparisons of economic concentration,
83–84
rural-urban disparities in, 62–66
spatially balanced, 73
stages of related to spatial concentration of economic activity,
82–83
strategies for Africa, 282–83
diseconomies, 144
distance
advantage of locations close to markets, 76–77
agglomeration economies attenuated by, 134–35
challenges of for integration options for countries, 275–77
countries distant from world markets with small neighbors,
277–83
as dimension of development, 6b2, 7, 36–37
in East Asia, 194–96
as an economic concept, 75, 76map22
findings concerning, 74
impact on trade, 108–9
institutions and infrastructure to overcome, 241–45, 246t8.1
migration as way to reduce, 77–78
openness matters for, 94
as spatial dimension, 36–37
spatially connective infrastructure to reduce distance to density,
206–12
in Sub-Saharan Africa, 284–86
as trade deterrent, 182

10/9/08 11:15:03 PM

372

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

diversity
industrial diversity and urbanization, 131–32
and specialization in cities, 137–40
divisions
and aspects of regional concentration on wealth, 115–20
as barriers to movements of capital and labor, 171
beyond control of countries, 101–5
and capital flows, 99–100
contrasted with borders, 97–98
definition of, 97–105
as dimension of development, 6b2, 7
in East Asia, 194–96
and economic concentration, 105–9
and economic costs of conflict and territorial disputes,
105
and economic geography, 120–21
ethnic and cultural, 104–5
and flow of goods and services, 98–99
impacts on countries, 98–101
institutions to overcome, 244–45
main findings concerning, 96–97
as spatial dimension, 36–37
in Sub-Saharan Africa, 284–86
as trade deterrent, 182
Doha Round, 187–88
domestic disparities, 5
domestic transport, 173–74
Dongguan, China, scale economies in, 126, 127b4.1

EAC. See East African Community (EAC)
earnings. See income; wages
East African Community (EAC), 152b5.1
East Asia
average annual growth rate of GDP, 110f3.11, 112–13
disparities in lagging areas of, 80b2.3
distance and division in, 194–96
economic growth in, 89, 89f2.8
and income divergence then convergence, 112–13
Eastern Caribbean Telecommunications Authority, 275
Eastern Europe
average annual GDP growth, 113–14
economic growth in, 89, 89f2.8
impact of labor and social policies on migration, 160b5.4
income convergence in, 113–14
income disparities, 91f2.11
economic analysis, insights from, 21b4
Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), 21–22,
32, 152b5.1
economic concentration
and divisions, 105–9
historical perspective, 106–8
international comparisons of, 83–84
pace and pattern of, 57–60
See also concentration
economic density, 195–96
and population density, 29
problems of in large cities, 142–44

WDR09_23_index.indd 372

spatially blind institutions to facilitate, 202–6
in three geographic scales, 8–10
See also density
economic development, 97
impact of geography, globalization, and development on,
115–20
importance of location in, 1–2
link to malaria, 116, 117b3.7
spatial disparities in, 39b0.3
See also development
Economic Development Administration, U.S. Commerce
Department, 256
economic forecasting, 198–99
economic geography, 115, 173, 200b7.1
and assistance for Africa, 282–83
and concentration, 41b0.4
and convergence, 41b0.4
impact on economic development, 120–21
incentives to exploit, 252–53
integration, 41b0.4
and trade, 263–64
and transport costs, 181–82
United States, 44–45
See also geography
economic growth, 128
impact of migration on, 159–61, 161b5.5
and labor mobility, 162, 163b5.6, 164f5.8
at national geographic scale, 3b1, 5
reformulation of models of, 159, 160
spatial balancing of, 5–6
economic integration, 1
and area development policies, 27–29
Bogota, 21, 22
impact of openness on, 119–20
political benefits of, 258–59
promotion of, 2, 22–24
strategies and priorities for, 272, 273t9.4
Turkey, 21, 22
West Africa, 21–22
See also integration
economic mass, 97, 238-40
Economic Partnership Agreements (EPAs), 265, 265b9.3
economic production, concentration of, 8–10
economies of scale. See scale economies
ECOWAS. See Economic Community of West African States
(ECOWAS)
education
convergence of as incomes diverge, 92–93
impact on welfare, 247
improvements in, 110–11
inequalities in access to, 111–12
and internal migration, 156f5.4, 157f5.5
and mobility-enhancing regional infrastructure, 268
and patterns of labor mobility, 155–57, 158t5.6
Uganda, 247, 248b8.7
Egypt, Arab Republic of, 224b7.13, 243, 245map8.6
eminent domain, 44, 207
emissions, 190, 191f6.6, 211b7.6

10/9/08 11:15:03 PM

Index

employment
density of, 54
rates of, 164–65
enclosure movement, 203
endogenous growth model, 159
EPAs. See Economic Partnership Agreements (EPAs)
ethnic divisions, 104–5
ethnic heterogeneity, 242
ethnic minorities, disparities among, 80, 80b2.3
EU. See European Union (EU)
Euclidean distances, 75
Euro-Mediterranean Forum, 273–74
Europe, compared to Asia, 194
European Union (EU), 236–38, 2324
criteria used to define lagging areas in, 79b2.2
EPAs with African, Caribbean, and Pacific countries, 265b9.3
GDP per capita, 62
inequalities of market incomes in, 238
Ireland’s use of EU funds for international convergence, 237–38
and regional integration, 274
territorial policy, 39b0.3
Everything But Arms initiative, 38
exports, 99
of commodities, 118–19
connecting to markets, 251–52
and distance to markets, 6b2
perishable goods, 177b6.2
regional and global integration of, 262–65
expropriation risks, 204
external scale economies, 127b4.1, 128t4.1

factor mobility, 241, 258, 285–86
final goods, 20b3
financial sector, 52, 133, 251, 266
First Law of Geography, 76
first-nature geography, 116, 117b3.7
Fiscal Investment and Loan Program, Japan, 87b2.4
Floor Space Index (FSI), 205b7.3
foreign aid, 5
foreign born population, 150
foreign direct investments (FDIs), 148f5.2, 149, 161, 266, 274
foreign spaces, unequal access to, 100
France
divergence then convergence of income and welfare in, 86
increasing spatial concentration and decreasing spatial
disparities in, 238, 238f8.1
size of cities in, 51
free trade, 260
freight costs, 175–76, 192b6.7, 251–52
FSI. See Floor Space Index (FSI)

GDP. See gross domestic product (GDP)
geographic concentration, reasons firms locate closer to each
other, 129b4.2
geographic information systems, 54–56, 57f1.3
geographic scales, 3–6

WDR09_23_index.indd 373

373

geography
and access to global markets, 29–32
and concentration of economic wealth, 115–20
and disparities in income and welfare in developed countries,
85–87
first-nature geography, 116, 117b3.7
natural geography, 84
physical geography, 115, 173, 240, 263–64
second-nature geography, 116, 118
unevenness of, 2
See also economic geography
Germany, 78b2.1, 235b8.2
Ghana, 253
Gibrat’s law, 51, 52b1.1
globalization, 96, 97f3.1, 128t4.1
and concentration of economic wealth, 115–20
financial, 100
increase in capital mobility during, 147–49
and patterns of labor mobility, 153
and transport costs, 170, 175
global markets. See world markets
Global Rural-Urban Mapping Project (GRUMP), 55b1.3
goods and services delivery, link to border permeability, 98–99
goods-producing industries, 130
governance, 274
Greater Mekong Subregion (GMS), cross-border migration in,
153b5.2
gross domestic product (GDP), 49, 62, 194
and density of economic activity, 78b2.1, 83, 83f2.2
and economic concentration, 57–60, 105–6
generated by commuters, 56
and geographic disparities, 95
Germany, 78b2.1
global trade as share of, 12, 13f3b
growth of, 30f7, 96, 97map3.1, 110f3.11, 112–13, 236–37
increase in from 1500-1998, 109t3.2, 110
and landlocked countries, 102b3.1
and relationship between economic activity and stages of
development, 83–84
and residential mortgage markets, 206
shares of world GDP, 107f3.8
Southeast Asia, 89, 89f2.9
spatial distribution of, 39b0.3
Sub-Saharan countries, 265b9.3
trade as share of, 93f2.13, 94
gross national income (GNI), link to migration, 100
gross regional product (GRP), 90–91b2.5
GRUMP. See Global Rural-Urban Mapping Project (GRUMP)

health
convergence of as incomes diverge, 92–93
improvements in, 110–11
as indicator of well-being of urbanites, 72
and road fatalities, 191–92
in slums, 67
heavy industries, and internal scale economies, 129–30
high-income countries, and density concentration, 61

10/9/08 11:15:03 PM

374

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

high-technology industries, 133
historical accidents, 233
home places, 159
Honduras, poverty rate in leading and lagging areas, 82map2.5
Hong Kong, China
mobility with density in, 185b6.5
spatial integration in, 213
and urban renewal and redevelopment in, 142b4.6
hosiery industry, 131
household consumption, 2, 10–12, 166
household registration, 76, 154–55b5.3
household surveys, 88–89
housing
costs of, 205b7.3
and land use, 204
occupant-owned, 206
regulations for finance of, 206
shortage of, 214
Sweden, 215b7.8
See also slums
hukou household registration system, 154–55b5.3
human capital, 146, 157
external effects from clustering of, 160
investments in, 245–50
movement of skilled workers, 21b4
See also labor mobility
human development index, 92, 246, 247f8.2
hydropower, 267

ICT. See information and communication technology (ICT)
ideas
idea-driven economies, 137
link to division changes in countries, 100–101
immigration policies, 157
imports, business services, 180–81
Improved Road Transport Governance Initiative, West Africa, 187
incentives, 22–24, 25, 231b8.1, 256
for advanced urbanization, 223–26
area incentives, 256–57
coordination of, 257, 266, 269–73
design of, 257–58
to facilitate regional integration, 281–83
financial, 253–55
for integrating slums into cities, 227–29
for migration, 77
to overcome distance, density, and divisions, 244–45
and policy framework for economic integration, 240
spatially focused, 37–39, 253-57
that exploit geographic advantages, 252–57
incipient urbanization, 25–26, 201, 202, 204, 216–20
inclusive urbanization, 229
income, 2, 6, 8, 45, 46
convergence of, 10–12, 235b8.2
divergence then convergence of in developed countries,
85–87
in faster-growing regions, 112–15
in middle-income countries, 92

WDR09_23_index.indd 374

disparities in Eastern Europe, 91f2.11
disposable income, 62
divergence of, 10–12, 112f3.14
as health and education converge, 92–93
between richest and poorest countries, 110–11
then convergence of in developed countries, 85–87
East Asia, 195
European Union, 238
Germany, 235b8.2
improvements in, 110
as indicators of well-being of urbanites, 72
Latin America, 112, 115b3.8
predictors of, 1
spatial inequalities of in fast-growing countries, 89–92
and Todaro class of migration models, 159–60
United States, 165b5.7
upper-middle class, 8
income tax systems, United States, 238–39
India
barriers to labor mobility in, 162, 163b5.6
criteria used to define lagging areas in, 79b2.2
economic integration in, 241
federal transfers in, 248
Indian Railways, 175b6.1
labor mobility in, 29
lagging areas in, 233–34
licensing systems, 256
migration in, 15, 17
poverty rates, 28map7c
slums in, 204, 205b7.3, 227
spatially balanced growth in, 233
special economic zones in, 254–55b8.10
Indonesia
agglomeration economies in, 131–32
and distance to economic centers, 76
rural-urban integration in, 220b7.11
industrialization
and acceleration of urbanization, 61
in China, 154–55b5.3
link to labor mobility, 149
policies for, 24, 27
Soviet Union, 90–91b2.5
industries
industrial diversity, 138
industrial zones, 224b7.13
location patterns of, 138–40
market-oriented, 94map2.6
spatial concentration of, 133
vertically integrated industries, 256
information, freedom of access to, 101
information and communication technology (ICT), 77, 138, 251
export of, 101
New York City, 143b4.7
information technology (IT), 119, 188, 189
infrastructure, 22–24, 25, 173, 231b8.1
for advanced urbanization, 223–26
China, 26b5
to connect lagging and leading areas, 250–52

10/9/08 11:15:03 PM

Index

cross-border, 267–68
evolvement of, 207
for increasing density and reducing congestion, 220–23
as instrument for integration, 37–39
for integrating slums into cities, 227–29
intercity, 208
interregional, 252
investments in, 176–77
Italy, 184b6.5
natural infrastructure, 126
to overcome distance and density, 242–45, 246t8.1
policies in Bombay, 205b7.3
and policy framework for economic integration, 240
as prerequisite for spatially-targeted interventions, 212
regional, 266, 267–69
and spatial integration in Hong Kong, China, 213
and targeted interventions, 214–15
and transport providers, 186–87
See also spatially connective infrastructure; transport
infrastructure
innovations, 131–32, 135
input-sharing, 130–31
institutions, 22–23, 25, 231b8.1
for advanced urbanization, 223–26
China, 26b5
for connective infrastructure, 206–7
to connect lagging and leading areas, 250–52
evolvement of, 207
for increasing density and reducing congestion, 220–23
institutional mechanisms used to overcome physical distances
in United States, 44–45
institutional reforms, 274–75
as instrument for integration, 37–39
for integrating slums into cities, 227–29
for integration in Central Asia, 277, 278b9.4
land market institutions for rural-urban integration, 220b7.11
for more efficient rural-urban transformations, 216–20
to overcome density, distance, and divisions, 241–45, 246t8.1
and policy framework for economic integration, 240
as prerequisite for spatially targeted interventions, 212
to promote portable investments, 245–50
reforms to improve regional integration, 275–76
for slum upgrading and prevention, 229b7.15
and spatial integration in Hong Kong, China, 213
and targeted interventions, 214–15
See also spatially blind institutions
instruments, for integration, 37–39, 271, 273b9.4
integrated firms, 138
integration
antiglobal integration, 261b9.1
in Central Asia, 277, 278b9.4
challenges of distance and division in, 195–96
in China, 227b7.14
and economic geography, 41b0.4
framework for, 202–16, 265–73
in Germany, 235b8.2
institutional mechanisms for, 271
instruments for, 37–39

WDR09_23_index.indd 375

375

of neighboring markets, 105
options for countries distant from world markets with small
neighbors, 277–83
of Pacific islands with world markets, 277, 278b9.5
policy framework for integrating lagging and leading areas,
238–45, 246t8.1
political benefits of economic integration, 258–59
principles for managing, 200–202
regional and global integration, 262–65
strategies to integrate poor countries with world markets,
260–62
urbanization framework in action, 216–29
See also economic integration; regional integration; rural-urban
transformations
intergovernmental transfers, 248, 249b8.8
intermediate goods, 20, 22, 182
intermediate inputs, 19–20
intermediate urbanization, 25map6b, 26, 201, 202, 220–23
internal economies, 128t4.1, 129
internal labor mobility, 153–55, 156t5.3
comparison of internal migrants and native workers, 162,
164f5.8
and economic growth, 162
India, 162, 163b5.6
relationship of skills and education to, 155–57, 158f5.6
See also labor mobility
internal migration, Brazil, 167b5.8
internal scale economies, 127b4.1, 128t4.1
in heavier industries, 129–30
in light industries, 130, 132b4.3
International Development Association, 281
international geographic scale, 3–5, 6b2, 7, 8, 10
international labor mobility, relationship of skills and education
to, 155–57, 158f5.6
Internet, 138
interregional infrastructure, 252
interregional trade, East Asia, 194–95
interstate highway system, 46
interventions, 25, 26
as instrument for integration, 37–39
to integrate the urban poor, 228t7.2
link to institutions and infrastructure, 214–15
soft interventions, 255–56
spatially targeted, 23–24, 37–39, 42, 238, 242
intervento straordinario, 184b6.4
intraindustry trade, 19–20, 22, 136–37
and communication costs, 180–81
historical perspective, 171, 171f6.1, 182, 183f6.5
and increase in transport intensity, 175–79
investments, 25
FDIs, 148f5.2, 149, 161
in industrial sector, 255
in infrastructure, 184b6.4
in China, 227b7.14
cross-country, 276–77
institutions that promote, 245–50
in research and development, 101
in social services, 87b2.4

10/9/08 11:15:03 PM

376

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Iran, Islamic Republic of, 63b1.5, 250–51
Ireland, international convergence using EU funds, 237–38
isolationism, 194
Istanbul, Turkey, 225–26
Italy, and transport costs, 184b6.4

Jacobs, Jane, 49
Japan
divergence then convergence of income and welfare in, 86–87
Fiscal Investment and Loan Program, 87b2.4
spatially connective policies to promote concentration, 208,
209b7.5
jet engines, 176, 177b6.2
juice tankers, 176–77

Kazakhstan, 52b1.1
Kenya, disparities in lagging areas of, 80b2.3
knowledge
access to, 95
production of, 184
sharing of, 183–84
spillovers of, 134, 158
Korea, Republic of, 53b1.2, 246
infrastructure development project in, 220–22
ranking of industries in, 133
rural-urban integration in, 220b7.11
spatially targeted incentives in, 253
urbanization in, 216–17, 224–25
Kuznets, Simon, 33

labor markets, 22
labor mobility, 18, 147, 171
barriers to in India, 162, 163b5.6
conclusions from analysis of, 158–68
and economic growth, 84–85, 162, 163b5.6, 164f5.8
impact of policies on migration, 169b5.4
India, 29
international, 155–57, 158f5.6
and migration theory, 159–61, 161b5.5
and mobility-enhancing regional infrastructure, 268
overview, 146–47
patterns of, 149–53, 155, 156t5.3
and RTAs, 266
in Sub-Saharan Africa, 151–52, 281
voluntary migration, 169
See also capital mobility; internal labor mobility
lagging areas, 22, 24, 29
criteria used to define, 79b2.2
development policies for, 230–31
and differences in modern developing countries, 93–95
distance in compared to density in leading areas, 78–80
and distribution of poor people, 232–33
divergence then convergence of economic activity in, 84–85
Egypt, 245map8.6
impact of internal labor migration on, 162–65

WDR09_23_index.indd 376

income disparities in, 89, 89f2.9
India, 233–34
institutions and infrastructure to connect to leading areas,
250–52
integration of, 27–29
living standards in, 247f8.2
Mexico, 244b8.6
and mobile phones, 251
policy framework for integrating lagging and leading areas,
238–45, 246t8.1
poverty rates in, 81, 82map2.5
seeking unity with leading areas, 234–38
and welfare indicators, 73
Lagos, Nigeria, 48
land and land use, 15, 26
and building regulations, 204-6, 226–27
costs of in Russia, 241–42
definition and enforcement of land rights, 218
and diseconomies, 144
and economic activity link to development stages of, 83–84,
85t2.1
and exclusion of poor, 228
Hong Kong, China, 213
as immobile factor to production, 142
improving administration of, 218–20
institutions for land markets, 202, 203–4, 220b7.11
management of, 202–3
markets for, 22
policies for, 25
Land Consolidation Program, Indonesia, 220b7.11
landlocked countries, 101, 102b3.1, 102b3.2, 103map3.3
and beyond the border trade, 267
development strategies for, 282–83
impact of openness and integration on, 119–20
integration options for, 277–83
and time costs of border crossings, 190
LandScan, 55b1.3
language diversity, 104–5
Lao People’s Democratic Republic, 242, 243map8.5, 246, 247f8.2
large cities, patterns of specialization and diversity among, 138–40
Latin America
education in, 156f5.4
per capita incomes, 112, 115b3.8
and transport costs, 192b6.7
leading areas, 22, 74
consumption in, 9
density in compared to distance for lagging areas, 78–80
and differences in modern developing countries, 93–95
divergence then convergence of economic activity in, 84–85
economic concentration in, 81–84, 85t2.1
impact of internal labor migration on, 162–65
income disparities in, 89, 89f2.9
institutions and infrastructure to connect to lagging areas,
250–52
integration of, 27–29
living standards in, 247f8.2
policy framework for integrating lagging and leading areas,
238–45, 246t8.1

10/9/08 11:15:04 PM

Index

poor people in, 81, 82map2.5
production in, 9
seeking unity with lagging areas, 234–38
Lewis, Arthur, 161b5.5
licensing systems, 256
life expectancy index, 92
life expectancy, 110, 111, 111f3.12
light industries, 130, 132b4.3, 133
liner shipping, 176
literacy rates, 92, 93
living standards, 1
convergence of, 10–12, 45–46, 73
disparities within cities, 66–70
divergence in, 3–5, 10–12
findings linking to development, 49
impact of migration on, 165
Malaysia, 27
spatial disparities in, 39b0.3, 87–89
spatial equities in, 238
United States, 73
variations in leading and lagging areas, 247f8.2
living standard surveys, and household consumption, 2
local geographic scale, 3–5
and concentration of economic production, 8–9
and density, 6b2, 7
localization economies, 14, 21b4, 128t4.1, 129, 221–22
Indonesia, 132b4.3
and industry patterns, 137–40
from input-sharing and competition within the industry,
130–31
locations
advantages of distance to markets, 76–77
and prosperity, 1–8
See also distance
logistics, and time factors in international trade, 179–80
low-income countries, and density concentration, 61
Lucas, Robert E, Jr., 161b5.5

Maddison, Angus, 194
Le Mâitre, Alexandre, 51
malaria, 116, 117b3.7
Malaysia
agriculture sector, 253
geographic convergence in welfare, 92, 92f2.12
improvement of living standards in, 27
Mali, 48–49, 220b7.11
manmade barriers, to distance, 75
manufacturing sector
China, 127b4.1
clustering of as producers seek scale economies, 132–33
importance of, 119
and internal scale economies, 129–30
link to economic distance, 76–77
spatial concentration of, 209b7.5
marginalization index, 79b2.2
maritime transport, 176–79, 188, 189, 192b6.7
markets and marketing

WDR09_23_index.indd 377

377

advantage of distance to, 76–77
changes in cities to adapt to forces of, 142–44
connecting producers to markets by mail, 251–52
country scores for access to, 270–73
as drivers of density and migration, 45
forces of, 13–20
global nature of, 12, 13f3b
impact of policy makers on, 128
importance of market access, 108–9
institution cooperation for, 265, 266–67
integration options for countries close to world markets,
273–75
market forces, 128, 130–41
market-oriented industries, 94map2.6
Mexico, 244b8.6
preferential access to, 282-83
size of, 41b0.4
and spatial dimensions, 36–37
and spatially targeted incentives, 253–57
See also world markets
Marshall, Alfred, 134
mass rapid transit, 210
McLean, Malcom, 178b6.3
MDGs. See Millennium Development Goals (MDGs)
mega-cities, 140–41
mercantile period
capital mobility during, 147–49
labor mobility during, 149–53
mercantile trade industry, 142
metropolitan economy, 49
Metropolitan Transportation Authority, New York City, 208b7.4
Mexico, 46
criteria used to define lagging areas in, 79b2.2
industrial development in, 256
market access in lagging areas of, 244b8.6
Mezzogiorno, 184b6.4
middle-income countries, 61, 92
mid-size cities, 137–40
migration, 34b0.1, 100
and benefits of economic growth, 159–61, 161b5.5
China, 13, 16map3, 17, 18
and division changes in countries, 100
economic perspective on, 161b5.5
to exploit profit from proximity, 13, 15–18
Germany, 235b8.2
impact of labor and social policies on, 160b5.4
international, 17, 150–52
link to physical distance, 75
policies for managing, 168–69
rates of, 247
reasons for migrating, 166–67, 166t5.4
restrictions on, 100
rural-to-rural, 153
as way to reduce distance, 77–78
military confrontations, costs of, 105
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), 27
Millennium Development Indicators, 92–93
minimum wages, 160b5.4

10/9/08 11:15:04 PM

378

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

Mints, Alexei, 90–91b2.5
mobile phones, 251, 268
mobility
with density, 185b6.5
and economic development, 84–85
factor mobility, 241, 258, 285–86
free movement of people, 260
and opportunity seeking, 231–34
See also capital mobility; labor mobility
Morocco, 52b1.1
mortality rates
as indicators of well-being of urbanites, 72
in slums, 68b1.6
Thailand, 92–93
multilocation firms, 138
Mumbai, India, slums in, 204, 205b7.3

NAFTA. See North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA)
national geographic scale, 3–5, 7
and concentration of economic production, 8, 9
and distance, 6b2, 7
National Slum Development Program, India, 227
national unity, 234–38
native workers, compared to internal migrants, 162, 164f5.8
natural gas, 102b3.2
natural resources, 101–3, 103b3.3
navigation, 174
neighborhoods
close to world markets, 275
effects of, 2
identification of for institutional reform, 278–81
importance of, 2
natural neighborhoods, 35, 278–81
regional, 150–53
New Partnership for Africa’s Development, 281
New York City
adapting to market forces, 143b4.7
transport system and urbanization, 207, 208b7.4
Nigeria, 48, 236b8.3
and dimensions of development in, 6b2
intergovernmental transfers, 249b8.8
Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistics (NUTS), 50,
78b2.1, 135, 237
nontariff barriers, 99
North, Douglas, 203
North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), 46, 113, 264
NUTS1. See Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistics (NUTS)

OECD. See Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)
offshoring tasks, 180
Ohmae, Kenichi, 96
oil revenues, 275
open registry shipping, 176

WDR09_23_index.indd 378

opportunities
in Russian Federation, 241–42
sought by people, 231–34
for women in Germany, 235b8.2
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
(OECD), 225
density threshold used by, 55b1.3, 56
and federal transfers, 248
GDP per capita in countries of, 63
and incentives to stimulate lagging areas, 256t8.2
patterns of migration to countries of, 150–52
preferential access for Africa to OECD markets, 282–83
Osaka-Kobe, Japan, 109b7.5
outcome-oriented policy framework, 247
outcomes
in education, 110, 110f3.10
identification of, 259
output density, 116
outsourcing, 134–35, 181

Pacific Islands
EPAs with EU, 265b9.3
integration into world markets, 277, 278b9.5
Pan-Arab Free Trade Area, 275
passport costs, 100
pension benefits, 250
per capita gross national income, 2
per capita incomes, 8
growth in, 46
link to income growth, 45
and market access, 108b3.5
See also gross domestic product (GDP)
performance monitoring mechanisms, 229b7.15
perishable goods, 177b6.2, 179, 273
Peru, postal service in, 251, 251b8.9
physical geography, 115, 240
and trade, 263–64
and transport costs, 173
physical infrastructure, 185
places
evolving portfolio of, 51–54
link to income, 46
plants, and size of cities, 21b4
policies and policy makers
for area development to integrate nations, 27–29
and attributes of development, 2–3
cohesion policies, 236–37
concerning infrastructure to reduce distance to density, 206–12
consideration of area as unit of government action, 201–2
framework for economic growth, 40–43
immigration policies, 157
integration framework in action, 216–29, 245–58
and lagging and leading areas
for countries seeking unity between lagging and leading
areas, 234–38

10/9/08 11:15:04 PM

Index

criteria used to define lagging areas, 79b2.2
development policies for lagging areas, 230–31
framework for integrating lagging and leading areas, 238–45,
246t8.1
for managing migration, 168–69
and market forces, 128
national industrial policies, 253
and political benefits of economic integration, 258–59
preferential trade agreements, 282
pricing policies, 257
protectionist trade policies, 175
to reduce economic disparities, 22–24
for regional integration, 261b9.1, 265–73, 273–83
spatially blind policies, 200b7.1
spatially targeted interventions for slums, 212–15
transport polices in developing world, 184–92
and urbanization
framework for, 199–200
policies for stages of, 24–27
policy instrument for dimensions of, 215–16
spatially blind institutions to facilitate, 202–3
strategies for inclusive urbanization, 229
political centers, 51, 52, 53b1.2
poor people
in Brazil, 232–33
China, 232
distribution of, 232–33
India, 233–34
interventions to integrate urban poor, 118t7.2
in leading areas, 81, 82map2.5
population
city comparisons, 49–50
density in United States, 44
density of link to economic mass, 54
foreign born population, 150
geographic centers of in United States, 44mapG1.1
increase in cities, 12, 13b31
in lagging areas, 24, 27–29, 29
prediction of, 198–99
spatial distribution of, 39b0.3
Sub-Saharan Africa, 284–86
in urban areas, 3, 5
port efficiency, 188, 189, 192b6.7
postal service, 251, 251b8.9
poverty
and landlocked countries, 101, 102b3.1, 102b3.2,
103map3.3
link to malaria, 116, 117b3.7
poverty rates in lagging areas, 81, 82map2.5
poverty maps, 27
poverty rates
Brazil, 232–33
India, 233–34
pricing, policies for, 257
primary cities, 49, 51–52
private sector, and slum upgrading and prevention, 229b7.15

WDR09_23_index.indd 379

379

producers, connecting to markets, 251–52
product cycles, 179–80
production
and communication costs, 180–81
concentration of, 8–10
diversification through regional cooperation, 263b9.2
facilities for, 257
fragmentation of, 120
importance of location in, 2
intermediate inputs of, 19–20
land as immobile factor in, 142
in leading areas, 9
and location of firms and facilities, 41b0.3, 179–80
spatial disparities in, 6
spatially efficient distribution of, 46
specialization of, 34b0.1
production networks, 180, 194–95, 266
productivity, 84
gains from scale economies, 135
increase in, 183
rural-urban disparities in, 62–66
profit, migration to profit from proximity, 13, 15–18
progressive tax systems, 239–40
property registry systems, 214
property rights, 203
prosperity, and location, 1–8
provincial growth product, inequalities in, 89, 89f2.10
proximity, migrating to for profit, 13, 15–18
proximity trap, 284
psychic costs, 75
public goods and services
access to, 10–12
delivery of link to border permeability, 98–99
as indicators of well-being of urbanites, 72
provision of, 275–76, 281
as reason for migration, 166t5.4, 167–68
taxonomy of properties of, 269–70
transfer mechanisms for, 247–50
public health, in slums, 68b1.6
public housing, Sweden, 215b7.8
public transportation
New York City, 207, 208b7.4
as promoter of higher density, 208, 210–12

rail freight costs, 175–76
rail systems, 174, 208b7.4
Indian Railways, 175b6.1
rank-size rule of cities, 51, 52b1.1
rapid transit systems, 223, 225map7.5
redistributive transfers, 247–50
reforms, institutional, 266–67, 274–76, 278–81
Regional African Communications Organization, 268
regional infrastructure, 266, 267–69
investment in, 281
trade enhancing, 268–69

10/9/08 11:15:04 PM

380

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

regional integration
diversifying production through, 263b9.2
findings concerning, 113–14
framework in action, 273–83
geography of, 270–73
and growth spillovers, 102b3.1
and income convergence, 112
to increase access to world markets, 29–32
institutional reform to improve, 275–76
instrument per dimension of, 271, 273t9.4
investments in cross-country infrastructure for, 276–77
policy framework for, 265–73
Sub-Saharan Africa, 286
trade of agricultural products as entry point to, 280
See also integration
regional trade agreements (RTAs), 102b3.1, 266, 280
regions
cooperation in, 19
description of, 35–36, 36b0.2
development of markets in, 261
as geographic scale, 3b1
income convergence within faster growing, 112–15
patterns of migration in regional neighborhoods, 150–53
policies to integrate nations, 27–29
regional cities, 52–54
regulations
for housing finance, 206
land market regulations, 250
for land use and building, 204–6, 226–27
of transport for benefits of scale economies, 186–87
remittance flows, 161–62, 165–66, 168
rent-seeking, 186
research and development, 101
resource allocations, 236
response rule, 40–42
Ricardo, David, 106
roads
road networks, 251
road space, 144
road transport costs, 175
RTAs. See regional trade agreements (RTAs)
rural areas
link to towns, 53–54
rural households and macroeconomic policies, 200b7.1
rural-to-rural migration, 153
rural-urban disparities in, 62–66
rural-urban transformations, 216–20
in Cambodia and Vietnam, 218, 219b7.9
China, 226, 227b7.14
and land market institutions, 220b7.11
Russian Federation, population and economic opportunities in,
241–42

sanitation, in slums, 67
scale economies
agriculture disperses and manufacturing clusters in, 132–33
amplified by density and attenuated by distance, 134–35

WDR09_23_index.indd 380

in China, 126, 127b4.1
cities facilitation of, 134
clustering of services vs. clustering of manufacturing in, 133–34
and enhancement of productivity-enhancing regional
infrastructure, 268
guide to, 128t4.1, 129–32
list, 128t4.1
overview, 126
theoretical advances recognized, 136–37
and transport costs, 171–72, 181–84
transport sector, 19, 186–87
in United States, 46
sea-locked countries, 103–4
search costs, 180
secondary cities, 49–50, 52
second-nature geography, 116, 118
security, in slums, 67
Seoul, Korea, 220–23, 224–25
services
clustering of in scale economies, 133–34
and developing economies, 132–33
fragmentation of, 20b3
and internal scale economies, 129–30
rural-urban disparities in, 65
SEZs. See special economic zones, (SEZs)
shipping
costs for, 176–79
rates of, 174
routes, 172
sigma-convergence, 46
Singapore, slums in, 214, 215b7.8
size
and economic prosperity, 101–3, 103b3.3
influence of, 118
as volume of demand, 183
skills
and patterns of internal and international migration, 155–57,
158f5.6
skilled emigrants, 168
slums
as challenge for economic integration, 24
in developing countries, 4map1, 5
divergence and convergence within cities, 66–70
India, 204, 205b7.3, 227
integration into cities, 227–29
Singapore, 214, 215b7.8
slum improvement programs, 26, 229b7.15
spatially targeted interventions for, 212–15
Sweden, 213
in world class cities, 69b1.7
smaller cities, 52–53, 137–38
Smith, Adam, 14–15, 93, 126, 135, 194
social inequalities, 39b0.3, 46
social policies, impact on migration, 150b5.4
social services, 26, 216–28
China, 227b7.14
and policies to manage migration, 168–69
rising investments in, 87b2.4

10/9/08 11:15:04 PM

381

Index

South Africa, housing shortage, 214
South America, 115b3.6
South Asia
average annual growth rate of GDP, 110f3.11
disparities in lagging areas of, 80b2.3
tariffs in, 99, 99f3.3
Southeast Asia, per capita GDP in, 89, 89f2.9
Southern African Development Community, 270
Southern Cone of South America, 115b3.8
Southern Europe, 115b3.8
South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation
Agreement (SPARTECA), 278b9.5
Soviet Union, spatial inefficiency and fall of, 90–91b2.5
SPARTECA. See South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic
Cooperation Agreement (SPARTECA)
spatial dimensions, elements of, 36–37
spatial disparities, 80b2.3
in developed countries, 85–87
France, 238, 238f8.1
in incomes in fast-growing countries, 89–92
in living standards in developing countries, 87–89
and U.S. tax system, 238–39
spatial integration, 22–24
spatially balanced development, 73
spatially blind institutions, 22–24, 29, 38, 202–3
and economic integration policies, 231b8.1
to overcome density and distance, 242–44
See also institutions
spatially connective infrastructure, 23–24, 29, 38
China, 221–22
Egypt, 243–44
Iran, 250–51
Japan, 208, 209b7.5
Korea, 221
to reduce distance to density, 206–12
See also infrastructure
spatially targeted incentives, 37-39, 253–57
spatially targeted interventions, 23–24, 37–39, 42, 238, 242
spatial scales, 35–36
spatial transformations, 33, 198–99
special economic zones, (SEZs), 224b7.13, 254–55b8.10
specialization
and diversity in cities, 137–40
of production, 34b0.1
and transport costs, 13, 18–20
spillovers
of growth from across borders, 102b3.1
of knowledge, 134, 158
from proximity to density, 76–77
regional, 116
Stabilization and Association Agreements, 274
standard of living. See living standards
statistical areas, and economic activity link to development stages,
83–84, 85t2.1
subnational areas
definition of, 78b2.1
rural-urban convergence in, 66
spatial disparities of living standards in, 87–89

WDR09_23_index.indd 381

subnational governments, and decentralization, 231
Sub-Saharan Africa
brain drain in, 168b5.9
density, distance, and division in, 284–86
GDP for, 265b9.3
and labor mobility, 151–52, 281
urbanization in, 59b1.4
subway systems, 208b7.4, 210
Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast
(SUDENE), Brazil, 38
supply and demand
demand management relationship to public transportation,
208, 210–12
regional global integration for, 262–65
Sweden, slums in, 213
symbiosis, and large cities, 52, 53

tanneries, 6b2
tariffs, 99, 192b6.7
taxonomy, to assist countries integration policies, 241
tax systems, 238–40
technical information, 101
technologies, for transport sector, 173, 177b6.2
telecommunications, 138, 267, 275
costs of, 140b4.5
impact of costs on, 94–95
and labor mobility, 157
territorial development, 27–29, 286
territorial disputes, economic costs of, 105
territorial policies, of European Union, 39b0.3
territorial units, classification of, 78b2.1
textile producers, 131
TFP. See total factor productivity (TFP)
Thailand, 153b5.2
time
costs of, 189
as factor in international trade, 179–80
Tinbergen principle, 229
Tobler, Waldo, 76
Todaro class of migration models, 159–60
Tokyo-Yokohama, Japan, 109b7.5
total factor productivity (TFP), 77, 116, 135
tourism, 177b6.2
town planning, Hong Kong, China, 213
towns, 53–54
trade, 182
in agricultural products for regional integration, 280
and institutional cooperation, 266–67
in intermediate goods, 20, 22
international, 179–80, 182
interregional, 193–95, 194–95
link to border permeability, 98–99
logistics and time factors in, 75, 179–80
national efforts and regional coordination to facilitate, 187–90
between neighbors, 182–83
preferential trade agreements, 282–83
protectionist policies for, 175

10/9/08 11:15:05 PM

382

WO R L D D E V E LO P M E N T R E P O RT 2 0 0 9

trade (continued)
regional and global integration of, 262–65
restraints, 45
as share of global GDP, 93f2.13, 94
shipping routes, 172
trade-enhancing regional infrastructure, 268–69
trade friction, 179–81
trade volume, 171–72
See also intraindustry trade; markets and marketing; transport
costs; world markets
trade agreements, 46, 271, 273t9.4
training, and mobility-enhancing regional infrastructure, 268
tramp shipping, 176–79
transfers, 247–50
transfrontier regionalism, 279
transmigration programs, 238
transport costs, 94–95, 134, 170
across United States, 45
air transport costs, 176
China, 251
concentration within countries, 183–84, 185b6.5
domestic transport, 173–74
and economic concentration, 252
and economic geography, 181–82
and growth strategies, 21b4
historical perspective, 170–71, 173–81
impact of distance on, 285–86
and increase in transport intensity, 175–79
and infrastructure, 186–87, 212
international transport, 174
and intraindustry trade, 20b3
Italy, 184b6.4
maritime transport costs, 176–79
rail freight costs, 175–76
reduction in, 45
road transport costs, 175
and scale economies, 171–72, 181–84
in sea-locked countries, 103
specialization and trading as costs fall, 13, 18–20
Sub-Saharan Africa, 286
and trade between neighbors, 182–83
and trade-enhancing regional infrastructure, 268–69
and trade friction, 179–81
trade volume impact on, 171–72
transport infrastructure, 46, 75, 175
in advanced urbanization, 223–29
to connect lagging and leading areas, 250–52
transport sector
Africa, 186, 187t6.1
and air pollution, 190–91
in developing countries, 267
domestic transport, 173–74
and economic concentration, 252
and expansion of cities, 144
importance of sector, 192–93
and institutional cooperation, 266–67
international transport, 174–75
investments in, 222

WDR09_23_index.indd 382

Mexico, 244b8.6
negative externalities of, 190–92
policies in developing world, 184–92
scale economies in, 19
technology inventions for, 177b6.2
urban transport systems, 183, 185b6.5
weight-value ratio in, 179
travel speed, link to market access, 77f2.1
trust, as component of regional cooperation, 270
Turkey, 21, 22, 225–26

Uganda, 236b8.3, 247, 248b8.7
unemployment, 184b6.4, 215b7.8
unemployment insurance, 160b5.4
UN-HABITAT, 229b7.15
United Kingdom
criteria used to define lagging areas in, 79b2.2
divergence then convergence of income and welfare in, 85–86
economic development in, 255
infrastructure in, 206–7
United Nations, region classification, 36b0.2
United States
borders of, 46
convergence of living standards, 73
divergence then convergence of income and welfare in, 85–86
economic development programs in, 256
economic geography of, 44–45
evolvement of institutions and infrastructure in, 207
federal income tax system, 238–39
historical perspective of wages in United States South, 165b5.7
investing in human capital, 246–47
rank-size rule of, 52b1.1
slums in, 213
urban areas, 55b1.3
and density, 49
and external economies, 141
rural-urban disparities in, 62–66
transport sector in, 222
See also slums
urban hierarchy, 51, 53b1.2
urbanization, 3, 9, 128t4.1, 129
and access to public services, 10–12
Africa, 59b1.4, 285
China, 26b5, 154–55b5.3
and climate change, 211b7.6
and divergence and convergence of slums within cities, 66–70
economic activities in, 141–42
framework in action, 216–29
and housing finance regulations, 206
indicators of well-being in, 72
from industrial diversity that fosters innovation, 131–32
infrastructure policies to reduce distance to density, 206–12
Korea, 216–27
land reform to facilitate in Denmark, 203b7.2
and land use and building regulations, 204–6
measures of, 54–56, 57f1.3
pace and pattern of, 57–59, 70–71

10/9/08 11:15:05 PM

Index

policy considerations for, 24–27, 199–200
policy instruments for dimensions of, 215–16
principles for managing, 200–202
promotion of, 23–24
rate of, 8
and reduction of congestion, 207–8, 209b7.5
rural-urban disparities in, 62–66
spatially targeted interventions for, 212–15
strategy for inclusive urbanization, 229
Sub-Saharan Africa, 285, 286
Turkey, 225–26
United Kingdom, 206–7
volume of in developing countries, 71–72
See also slums
urbanization economies, 15, 215–16
urban residents, definition of, 8

Vajpayee, Behari, 120
value added, 49, 181
value-to-weight ratios, 179, 182
variable trade costs, 180
vehicles
and congestion, 210
and enlargement of cities, 45–46
growth in numbers of, 144
vertically integrated industries, 256
Vietnam
poverty in lagging and leading areas, 81map2.4
rural-urban transformation of, 218, 219b7.9
visa requirements, 100, 101f3.5

WAEMU. See West African Economic and Monetary Union
(WAEMU)
wages
Asia vs. Europe, 194
converging of, 10–12
historical perspective in United States South, 165b5.7
and labor mobility, 164–65
rural-urban disparities in, 62–66
water management, 275
wealth
concentration of, 9f1c, 10, 115–20
rural-urban disparities in, 64
The Wealth of Nations, 14–15, 93, 126, 135

WDR09_23_index.indd 383

383

welfare
divergence then convergence of in developed countries, 85–87
and factor mobility, 258
impact of education on, 247
improvements in, 110
indicators of, 73
Malaysia, 92, 92f2.12
rural-urban disparities in, 62–66
spatial disparities in developing countries, 87–89
West Africa, 187
cotton-led industrial development in, 280, 280map9.6
and economic integration, 21–22
West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU), 263b9.2,
264–65
Western Asia
average annual GDP growth, 113–14
income convergence in, 113–14
tariffs in, 99, 99f3.3
World Bank, region classification, 36b0.2
World Development Report 2009
elements not covered in, 34b0.1
scope of, 34
structure of, 39–43
terms used in, 34–39
world markets
countries distant from world markets with small neighbors,
277–83
and geography of regional integration, 270–73
importance of, 93–94
and institutional reforms, 274–75
integration options
for countries close to world markets, 273–75
for distance obstacles, 275–77
integrating Pacific Islands into, 277, 278b9.5
regional integration to increase access to, 29–32
strategies to integrate poor countries into, 260-62
and telecommunications, 275
World Trade Organization (WTO), 187–88, 265b9.3, 266, 278b9.4
World Urbanization Prospects, 55b1.3, 56, 58, 285
WTO. See World Trade Organization (WTO)

Zheng He, 194
Zipf ’s law, 51, 139
zoning policies, 207, 228

10/9/08 11:15:05 PM

ECO-AUDIT

Environmental Benefits Statement
The World Bank is committed to
preserving endangered forests and
natural resources. The Office of the
Publisher has chosen to print the
World Development Report 2009
on recycled paper with 10 percent
postconsumer fiber in accordance
with the recommended standards
for paper usage set by the Green
Press Initiative, a nonprofit program
supporting publishers in using fiber
that is not sourced from endangered
forests. For more information, visit
www.greenpressinitiative.org.

WDR09_23_index.indd 384

Saved:
• 92 trees
• 64 million BTUs of
total energy
• 211,008 pounds of
CO2 equivalent
greenhouse gases
• 700,880 gallons of
waste water
• 83,411 pounds of
solid waste

10/29/08 9:53:00 AM

reshaping
economic
geography
Places do well when they promote transformations along the dimensions
of economic geography: higher densities as cities grow; shorter
distances as workers and businesses migrate closer to density; and
fewer divisions as nations lower their economic borders and enter
world markets to take advantage of scale and trade in specialized
products. World Development Report 2009 concludes that the
transformations along these three dimensions—density, distance, and
division—are essential for development and should be encouraged.
The conclusion is controversial. Slum-dwellers now number a billion,
but the rush to cities continues. A billion people live in lagging areas of
developing nations, remote from globalization’s many benefits. And poverty
and high mortality persist among the world’s “bottom billion,” trapped
without access to global markets, even as others grow more prosperous
and live ever longer lives. Concern for these three intersecting billions often
comes with the prescription that growth must be spatially balanced.
This report has a different message: economic growth will be unbalanced.
To try to spread it out is to discourage it—to fight prosperity, not
poverty. But development can still be inclusive, even for people who
start their lives distant from dense economic activity. For growth to be
rapid and shared, governments must promote economic integration,
the pivotal concept, as this report argues, in the policy debates on
urbanization, territorial development, and regional integration. Instead,
all three debates overemphasize place-based interventions.
Reshaping Economic Geography reframes these debates to include
all the instruments of integration—spatially blind institutions, spatially
connective infrastructure, and spatially targeted interventions. By
calibrating the blend of these instruments, today’s developers can
reshape their economic geography. If they do this well, their growth
will still be unbalanced, but their development will be inclusive.

