Report
The United Nations World Water Development Report 2015 	

Water for a
sustainable
world

UNDESA, UNECE,
UNECLAC, UNESCAP,
UNESCWA

United Nations
Educational, Scientiﬁc and
Cultural Organization

Empowered lives.
Resilient nations.

WWDR 2015

Chapter title

001

The United Nations World Water Development Report 2015 	

Water for a
sustainable
world

Published in 2015 by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization, 7, place de Fontenoy, 75352 Paris 07 SP, France
© UNESCO 2015
This report is published by UNESCO on behalf of UN-Water. The list of UN-Water
Members and Partners can be found on the following website: http://www.unwater.org
Chapter 11, Europe and North America, by Annukka Lipponen and Nicholas Bonvoisin,
© United Nations
Chapter 14, Latin America and the Caribbean, © United Nations 2014
ISBN 978-92-3-100071-3
ePub ISBN 978-92-3-100099-7
Suggested citation:
WWAP (United Nations World Water Assessment Programme). 2015. The United Nations
World Water Development Report 2015: Water for a Sustainable World. Paris, UNESCO.

This publication is available in Open Access under the Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 IGO
(CC-BY-SA 3.0 IGO) license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/igo/). By
using the content of this publication, the users accept to be bound by the terms of use
of the UNESCO Open Access Repository
(http://www.unesco.org/open-access/terms-use-ccbysa-en).
The present license applies exclusively to the text content of the publication. For the use
of any material not clearly identified as belonging to UNESCO, prior permission shall be
requested from: publication.copyright@unesco.org or UNESCO Publishing, 7, place de
Fontenoy, 75352 Paris 07 SP France.
The designations employed and the presentation of material throughout this
publication do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of
UNESCO concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its
authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries.
The ideas and opinions expressed in this publication are those of the authors; they are
not necessarily those of UNESCO and do not commit the Organization.
The contents of Parts 2, 3 and 4 were contributed by the UN-Water Members and
Partners listed on the title pages of the chapters therein. UNESCO and the United
Nations World Water Assessment Programme (WWAP) are not responsible for errors in
the content provided or for discrepancies in data and content between contributed
chapters.
WWAP provided the opportunity for individuals to be listed as authors and contributors
or to be acknowledged in Parts 2, 3 and 4. WWAP is not responsible for any omissions in
this regard.

Cover and interior design and typesetting by Phoenix Design Aid A/S, an ISO 14001
(environmental management) and a DS 49001 (corporate social responsibility) certified
and approved carbon-neutral company.
Printed by Dimensione Grafica (ISO 9001:2008 and FSC-COC), Spello, Umbria, Italy
This publication is printed in vegetable inks on FSC Mixed Sources paper, supporting
responsible use of forest reserves, 100% recycled, acid-free and chlorine-free.

Printed in Italy

Table of Contents

Foreword

by Ban Ki-moon, Secretary-General of the United Nations	

iv

Foreword

by Irina Bokova, Director-General of UNESCO	

v

Foreword

by Michel Jarraud, Chair of UN-Water and Secretary-General of WMO	

vi

Preface

by Michela Miletto, WWAP Coordinator a.i., and Richard Connor, Lead Author	

vii

Acknowledgements	ix
Executive summary 	

1

Prologue
The future of water — A vision for 2050			

7	

Chapter 1. Unsustainable growth 	

10

1.1 	Increasing global water demand	
1.2 	 Potential impacts of increasing demand	
1.3 	 Water resources: Status and availability 	
1.4 	 Constraints on water resources management	
	

10
11
12
13

WATER AND THE THREE DIMENSIONS OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT

PART 1

Chapter 2. Poverty and social equity 	

19

2.1 	The water and poverty relationship 	
2.2 	The equity challenge 	
2.3 	 Key dimensions of poverty reduction 	
2.4 	Targeting gender equality 	

19
20
21
22

Chapter 3. Economic development 	

23

3.1 	Expanding economic opportunities through water infrastructure 	
3.2 	Facilitating structural change 	
3.3 	Investment challenges 	
3.4 	Economic opportunities from improved water efficiency 	
3.5 	Intersectoral trade-offs 	
3.6 	 Protecting water resources 	

23
23
24
26
27
27

Chapter 4. Ecosystems 	

28

4.1 	 Context 	
4.2 	 Challenges 	
4.3. 	Responses 	
	

28
29
31

WWDR 2015

i

i

PART 2

ADDRESSING CRITICAL DEVELOPMENTAL CHALLENGES
Chapter 5. Water, sanitation and hygiene 	

37

5.1 	Return on WASH investments 	
5.2 	Environmental implications 	
5.3 	Reducing disparities and enhancing services 	
5.4 	Towards sustainable WASH services 	

38
39
40
41

Chapter 6. Urbanization 	42
6.1 	 Water in a rapidly urbanizing world 	
42
6.2 	 Challenges 	
42
6.3 	Responses 	
45
Chapter 7. Food and agriculture 	48
7.1 	Improving resource use efficiency 	
49
7.2 	 Conserving, protecting and enhancing natural resources 	
50
7.3 	Rural livelihoods and social well-being 	
51
7.4 	Improving resilience 	
52
7.5 	Effective governance 	
52
Chapter 8. Energy 	54
8.1 	Thirsty energy 	
54
8.2 	 Challenges: Meeting ever growing demands 	
55
8.3 	Responses: A water perspective on energy 	
57
Chapter 9. Industry 	58
9.1 	 Context 	
58
9.2 	 Challenges 	
59
9.3 	Responses 	
61
Chapter 10. Adapting to climate variability and change 	65
10.1 	Context 	
65
10.2 	Challenges 	
65
10.3 	Responses and opportunities 	
67

ii

Table of Contents

REGIONS

PART 3

Chapter 11. Europe and North America 	

71

11.1 	Coordination between users 	
11.2 	'Greening' agricultural practices 	

71
72

Chapter 12. Asia and the Pacific 	74
12.1 	Water-related disasters 	
12.2 	Urban water 	
12.3 	Groundwater 	

74
75
76

Chapter 13. The Arab Region 	

78

13.1 	Water scarcity 	
13.2 	Threats to sustainability 	
13.3 	Progress and perspectives 	

78
79
80

Chapter 14. Latin America and the Caribbean 	

82

14.1 	Water governance 	
14.2 	Drinking water supply and sanitation 	

83
83

Chapter 15. Africa 	

85

15.1 	Overview 	
15.2 	Key water challenges related to sustainable development in Africa 	
15.3 	The way forward 	

85
86
87

RESPONSES AND IMPLEMENTATION

PART 4

Chapter 16. Framework for implementing The Future We Want 	93
16.1 	Water and the three dimensions of sustainable development 	
93
16.2 	The post-2015 development agenda 	
93
16.3 	Achieving The Future We Want 	97

Epilogue
Water for a sustainable world 			

104	

References 			

106

Abbreviations and acronyms 			

119

Boxes, tables and figures 			

121

WWDR 2015

iii

Foreword
by Ban Ki-moon
Secretary-General of the United Nations

Water flows through the three pillars of sustainable development – economic, social and environmental. Water resources, and
the essential services they provide, are among the keys to achieving poverty reduction, inclusive growth, public health, food
security, lives of dignity for all and long-lasting harmony with Earth’s essential ecosystems.
Water issues have risen in prominence in recent years, reflecting growing understanding of water’s centrality as well as the
world’s success in achieving the Millennium Development Goal target of halving the proportion of people without sustainable
access to safe drinking water. Between 1990 and 2010, 2.3 billion people gained access to improved drinking water sources,
such as piped supplies and protected wells.
The publication of the World Water Development Report 2015, “Water for a Sustainable World”, comes as Member States
strive to build on the gains made under the MDG framework, articulate an inspiring post-2015 development agenda and
reach an ambitious agreement on climate change. The report illustrates the complex linkages between water and critical areas
such as human health, food and energy security, urbanization, industrial growth and climate change. It also describes the
status of the world’s water resources, including an overview of the impacts of unsustainable growth on freshwater resources,
and suggests possible responses to these challenges.
The World Water Development Report 2015, coordinated by UNESCO’s World Water Assessment Programme, brings together
31 UN-Water Members and 37 Partners, and offers data and information aimed at policy- and decision-makers, inside and
outside the water sector. The decisions that determine how water resources are used (or abused) are not made by water
managers alone. Progress towards sustainable development thus requires engaging a broad range of actors. I appeal to
Government leaders as well as civil society and the private sector to join forces to protect and share our most precious
resource, and to build a more sustainable future for all.

Ban Ki-moon

iv iv

Foreword

Foreword
by Irina Bokova
Director-General of UNESCO

This report comes at a critical moment, when freshwater resources face rising pressure to provide for the social, economic and
environmental needs of a growing world population. 2015 is also a year of high expectations and hopes, as the deadline for
the Millennium Development Goals, and when States will define a new global sustainable development agenda to follow.
Water is inextricably linked to the development of all societies and cultures. At the same time, this development also places
considerable pressure on water resources — agriculture, energy and industry all have impacts on the use and governance of
water. More than two decades after the first summit on sustainable development, many countries still face the challenges
of eliminating poverty and promoting economic growth, ensuring health and sanitation, preventing land degradation and
pollution, and advancing rural and urban development. Around 748 million people today still do not have access to an
improved source of drinking water, and water demand for manufacturing is expected to increase by 400 per cent between
2000 and 2050 globally.
The 2015 World Water Development Report sets both an aspirational and a realistic vision for the future of water towards
2050. Water is essential for promoting inclusive sustainable development, as it supports human communities, maintains the
functions of ecosystems and ensures economic development. Translating this vision into reality requires efforts by all, through
concrete and interrelated actions that go from establishing the legal and institutional framework to ensure sustainable water
management and increasing investments and financial support for water development to enhancing and improving access to
water supply, sanitation and hygiene services.
To these ends, UNESCO is deeply committed to ensuring equitable and inclusive quality education and lifelong learning for
women and men across the world. In many contexts, this calls for freeing women and children from the burden of fetching
water for hours every day to provide them with opportunities for their empowerment and fulfilment. This is essential for
advancing respect for human rights and for eliminating poverty. This is why the 2015 Report has mainstreamed the needs of
the most vulnerable, as well as those of minorities, women and children, throughout its approach and analysis.
I am confident that the 2015 World Water Development Report will contribute significantly to the discussion of the 69th
United Nations General Assembly and to shaping an ambitious new global sustainable development agenda, with water at its
heart. In this respect, I wish to thank all members and partners of UN-Water, under the coordination of United Nations World
Water Assessment Programme, for their contribution to this report and commitment to the goals we share. I see this as a
powerful example of the United Nations delivering as one on key issues for all member States. The Secretariat of the United
Nations World Water Assessment Programme has played a particularly important role in coordinating this important work.
In this respect, I wish to express my gratitude also to the Government of Italy and the Umbria Region for hosting the United
Nations World Water Assessment Programme and supporting its work.
The sustainable use and management of water is vital for welfare of all humanity today, and it is essential for building the
future we want for all. This is why this Report is so important.

Irina Bokova

WWDR 2015

v v

Foreword
by Michel Jarraud
Chair of UN-Water and Secretary-General of WMO

2015 is when the Millennium Development Goals will come to term and the new sustainable development agenda will come
to light. This year we have an unprecedented opportunity to be bold, brave and vigorous when creating the future we want.
Water is truly at the core of sustainable development. It is inextricably linked to climate change, agriculture, food security,
health, equality, gender and education, and there is already international agreement that water and sanitation are essential to
the achievement of many sustainable development goals.
In my capacity as Chair of UN-Water, I am proud of this year’s World Water Development Report. With a broad and ambitious
scope, the Report provides a thorough understanding of water and sanitation challenges and how to transform them into
opportunities.
The production of this Report was only made possible by the hundreds of hours of inter-agency collaboration that went into
it. Therefore, I would like to sincerely thank all of my UN-Water colleagues for their contributions. I would also like to express
my profound appreciation to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) for its World
Water Assessment Programme, which coordinates the production and publication of the Report on behalf of UN-Water.
This 2015 Report is a must-read to understand the role of water and sanitation in the Post-2015 Development Agenda and it
is my hope that this Report can inspire strategies, policies and actions for years to come.

Michel Jarraud

vi

Foreword

Preface
by Michela Miletto, WWAP Coordinator a.i.
and Richard Connor, Lead Author

In its 1987 report, Our Common Future, the United Nations’ World Commission on Environment and Development (the
Brundtland Commission) defined ‘sustainable development’ as "development that meets the needs of the present without
compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs." Since then, several other definitions have
been proposed and debated, and countless papers, articles and books have been published, each seeking to broaden our
understanding of the concept and the types of actions it implies.
With the 1992 UN Conference on Environment and Development (the Rio Summit) through to the 2000 United Nations
Millennium Declaration and its eight Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), sustainable development has become integrated
into the UN System as the organizing principle for sustaining the finite resources necessary to provide for the needs of future
generations of life on the planet. 2015 marks yet another critical milestone in this evolution. As the MDG cycle draws to a
close, a new cycle of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) is poised to guide national governments and the international
community in our common quest to achieve a sustainable world.
As the second in a new series of annually released theme-oriented reports, the 2015 edition of the United Nations World
Water Development Report (WWDR) clearly shows how water is critical to sustainable development. Indeed, water is the
essential primary natural resource upon which nearly all social and economic activities and ecosystem functions depend.
Sustainable development requires that we properly manage our freshwater resources and equitably share its benefits.
The linkages between water and sustainable development are numerous, complex and often subtle. In addition to describing
the relationship between water and its social, economic and environmental dimensions, this WWDR also examines water’s
role in addressing several of the most pressing developmental challenges of our time, from food and energy security to
urbanization and climate change. The Report is further enriched by regional perspectives, and provides decision-makers and
practitioners with specific examples of measures, actions and approaches to addressing these interconnected challenges
through water.
Like its predecessors, the WWDR 2015 is primarily targeted at national-level decision-makers and water resources managers.
However, it is hoped the Report will also be well received by academics and the broader developmental community as well by
those who care about the common future of our planet.
This latest edition of the WWDR is the result of a concerted effort between WWAP, the ten Lead Agencies (FAO, UNDESA,
UNDP, UNEP, UNESCO, UN-Habitat, UNICEF, UNIDO, WHO and WMO) responsible for the thematic part of the Report and
the five Regional UN Economic Commissions who provided geographically-focused perspectives on water and sustainable
development.
The Report has also benefitted to a great extent from the inputs and contributions of several UN-Water Members and
partners, as well as from dozens of scientists, professionals and NGOs who provided a wide range of excellent material. The
members of WWAP’s Technical Advisory Committee were particularly active and generous in providing their guidance and
knowledge to the production team. In line with the previous publications of WWAP, this Report is gender-mainstreamed
thanks to the support of UN Women, the WWAP Advisory Group on Gender and the UNESCO Division for Gender Equality.

WWDR 2015

vii

The report begins by describing a world in the not-so-distant future in which water resources and water-related services are
managed in such a way that the benefits derived from water are maximized and shared equitably throughout the world. This
vision is not merely a fictional utopian outlook; it is a future that we believe is entirely achievable – a future in which water
is recognized and managed as the fundamental resource that supports all aspects of sustainable development. This vision
represents a new and innovative approach to the WWDR which we hope will prompt readers to reflect on how our world
could be, provided we make appropriate changes to the ways we do things.
Although the concept of sustainable development may be straightforward, different stakeholders tend to see the challenges
and potential solutions from their particular – and often varying – perspectives. We have endeavoured to present a fact-based,
balanced and neutral account of the current state of knowledge, covering the most recent developments pertaining to water
and sustainable development. As we move towards a new paradigm of sustainable development, whether via a new set of
development goals, the decoupling of water and economic growth, or the ‘greening’ of economies, it is our sincere hope that
this factual Report is received as a useful, informative and credible tool that will support and strengthen proactive discussions
pertaining to our common future, and ultimately help to identify and adopt appropriate responses.
On behalf of WWAP’s Secretariat, we extend our deepest appreciation to the UN-Water Lead Agencies and Regional
Commissions, to the members and partners of UN-Water, and to the authors, writers, editors and other contributors for
collectively producing this unique and authoritative report. A special recognition goes to the UNDP, who provided outstanding
support from the very beginning of the Report’s development through to the final editing process.
A particular thanks goes to Ms Irina Bokova, Director-General of UNESCO, for her crucial support for WWAP and the
production of the WWDR.
We are profoundly grateful to the Italian Government for funding the Programme, and to the Umbria Region for hosting
the WWAP Secretariat in Villa La Colombella in Perugia. Their contribution has been instrumental to the production of the
WWDR.
Finally, we extend our most sincere gratitude to all our colleagues at the WWAP Secretariat, whose names are listed in the
acknowledgements. This report could not have been completed without their dedication and professionalism.

Michela Miletto	

viii

Preface

Richard Connor

Acknowledgements

The United Nations World Water Assessment Programme (WWAP) Secretariat would like to extend its sincere thanks to all the
organizations, institutions and individuals who made the preparation of this Report possible.
WWAP recognizes the valuable contribution, useful revisions and timely endorsements of UN-Water members and partners.
Special thanks go to UNDP for their assistance in developing the structure and main messages of the Report, and for hosting
the WWDR 2015 Developmental Workshop in cooperation with Stockholm International Water Institute.
WWDR 2015 benefitted from the significant reviews, comments and guidance of WWAP’s Technical Advisory Committee.
We wish to express our earnest thanks to Ms Irina Bokova, the Director-General of UNESCO, whose support was instrumental
in preparing the Report.
We would like to acknowledge the support of Ms Blanca Jiménez-Cisneros, Director of the Division of Water Sciences and
Secretary of the International Hydrological Programme (IHP), and colleagues at IHP.
WWAP is grateful for the generous financial contribution of the Italian Government, under the ratified Memorandum of
Understanding for WWAP, and for the facilities provided by the Umbria Region.

WWDR 2015

ix

WWDR 2015 team

The United Nations World Water Assessment Programme (WWAP)

Content Coordinator
Michela Miletto

Donors
Government of Italy
Government of the Region of Umbria, Italy

Lead Author
Richard Connor
Process Coordinator
Simone Grego
Data and Indicators Officer
Engin Koncagül
Publications Officers
Alice Franek/Diwata Hunziker
Publications Assistant
Valentina Abete
Copy-editing
PICA publishing
Design and layout
Phoenix Design Aid

x

Acknowledgements

WWAP Technical Advisory Committee
Uri Shamir (Chair), Dipak Gyawali (Deputy Chair), Fatma Abdel Rahman Attia, Anders
Berntell, Elias Fereres, Mukuteswara Gopalakrishnan, Daniel P. Loucks, Henk van Schaik,
Yui Liong Shie, Lászlo Somlyody, Lucio Ubertini and Albert Wright
WWAP Advisory Group on Gender Equality
Gülser Çorat and Kusum Athukorala (Co-Chairs), Joanna Corzo, Irene Dankelman, Manal
Eid, Atef Hamdy, Deepa Joshi, Barbara van Koppen, Kenza Robinson, Buyelwa Sonjica and
Theresa Wasike, Marcia Brewster and Vasudha Pangare
WWAP Secretariat
Coordinator a.i.: Michela Miletto
Programmes: Barbara Bracaglia, Richard Connor, Angela Renata Cordeiro Ortigara,
Simone Grego, Engin Koncagül, Lucilla Minelli, Daniel Perna, Léna Salamé and
Laurens Thuy
Publications: Valentina Abete and Diwata Hunziker
Communications: Simona Gallese
Gender and Regional Monitoring: Francesca Greco
Administration: Arturo Frascani and Lisa Gastaldin
Security: Fabio Bianchi, Michele Brensacchi and Francesco Gioffredi
Interns and volunteers: Agnese Carlini, Lucia Chiodini, Greta di Florio, Alessio Lilli, Jessica
Pascucci, Emma Schiavon, Maxime Turko and Sisira Saddhamangala Withanachchi

STATUS, TRENDS AND CHALLENGES

Executive Summary

Cascata delle Marmore (Marmore Waterfalls), Terni, Umbria (Italy)
Photo: Antonio Picascia

Water is at the core of sustainable development. Water
resources, and the range of services they provide, underpin
poverty reduction, economic growth and environmental
sustainability. From food and energy security to human and
environmental health, water contributes to improvements
in social well-being and inclusive growth, affecting the
livelihoods of billions.

Vision 2050: Water in a sustainable world
In a sustainable world that is achievable in the near
future, water and related resources are managed in
support of human well-being and ecosystem integrity
in a robust economy. Sufficient and safe water is
made available to meet every person’s basic needs,
with healthy lifestyles and behaviours easily upheld
through reliable and affordable water supply and
sanitation services, in turn supported by equitably
extended and efficiently managed infrastructure.
Water resources management, infrastructure and
service delivery are sustainably financed. Water is duly
valued in all its forms, with wastewater treated as a
resource that avails energy, nutrients and freshwater
for reuse. Human settlements develop in harmony
with the natural water cycle and the ecosystems
that support it, with measures in place that reduce
vulnerability and improve resilience to water-related
disasters. Integrated approaches to water resources
development, management and use − and to
human rights − are the norm. Water is governed in a
participatory way that draws on the full potential of
women and men as professionals and citizens, guided
by a number of able and knowledgeable organizations,
within a just and transparent institutional framework.
The consequences of unsustainable growth
Unsustainable development pathways and governance
failures have affected the quality and availability of water
resources, compromising their capacity to generate social
and economic benefits. Demand for freshwater is growing.
Unless the balance between demand and finite supplies is
restored, the world will face an increasingly severe global
water deficit.

development, in particular food production and energy.
The competition for water − between water ‘uses’ and
water ‘users’ − increases the risk of localized conflicts and
continued inequities in access to services, with significant
impacts on local economies and human well-being.
Over-abstraction is often the result of out-dated models
of natural resource use and governance, where the use
of resources for economic growth is under-regulated and
undertaken without appropriate controls. Groundwater
supplies are diminishing, with an estimated 20% of the
world’s aquifers currently over-exploited. Disruption of
ecosystems through unabated urbanization, inappropriate
agricultural practices, deforestation and pollution are among
the factors undermining the environment’s capacity to
provide ecosystem services, including clean water.
Persistent poverty, inequitable access to water supply and
sanitation services, inadequate financing, and deficient
information about the state of water resources, their use
and management impose further constraints on water
resources management and its ability to help achieve
sustainable development objectives.

Water and the three dimensions of
sustainable development
Progress in each of the three dimensions of sustainable
development − social, economic and environmental − is
bound by the limits imposed by finite and often vulnerable
water resources and the way these resources are managed
to provide services and benefits.
Poverty and social equity
While access to household water supplies is critical
for a family’s health and social dignity, access to water
for productive uses such as agriculture and family-run

Global water demand is largely influenced by population
growth, urbanization, food and energy security policies,
and macro-economic processes such as trade globalization,
changing diets and increasing consumption. By 2050, global
water demand is projected to increase by 55%, mainly due
to growing demands from manufacturing, thermal electricity
generation and domestic use.
Competing demands impose difficult allocation decisions
and limit the expansion of sectors critical to sustainable
Fisher and her husband pulling in the net (Timor Leste)
Photo: UN Women/Betsy Davis

2

Executive summary

businesses is vital to realize livelihood opportunities,
generate income and contribute to economic productivity.
Investing in improved water management and services can
help reduce poverty and sustain economic growth. Povertyoriented water interventions can make a difference for
billions of poor people who receive very direct benefits
from improved water and sanitation services through better
health, reduced health costs, increased productivity and
time-savings.
Economic growth itself is not a guarantee for wider social
progress. In most countries, there is a wide – and often
widening – gap between rich and poor, and between those
who can and cannot exploit new opportunities. Access to
safe drinking water and sanitation is a human right, yet
its limited realization throughout the world often has
disproportionate impacts on the poor and on women and
children in particular.
Economic development
Water is an essential resource in the production of most
types of goods and services including food, energy and
manufacturing. Water supply (quantity and quality) at
the place where the user needs it must be reliable and
predictable to support financially sustainable investments in
economic activities. Wise investment in both hard and soft
infrastructure that is adequately financed, operated and
maintained facilitates the structural changes necessary to
foster advances in many productive areas of the economy.
This often means more income opportunities to enhance
expenditure in health and education, reinforcing a selfsustained dynamic of economic development.
Many benefits may be gained by promoting and facilitating
use of the best available technologies and management
systems in water provision, productivity and efficiency, and
by improving water allocation mechanisms. These types
of interventions and investments reconcile the continuous
increase in water use with the need to preserve the critical
environmental assets on which the provision of water and
the economy depends.

under-recognized and under-utilized within most current
economic and resource management approaches. A more
holistic focus on ecosystems for water and development
that maintains a beneficial mix between built and natural
infrastructure can ensure that benefits are maximized.
Economic arguments can make the preservation of
ecosystems relevant to decision-makers and planners.
Ecosystem valuation demonstrates that benefits far exceed
costs of water-related investments in ecosystem conservation.
Valuation is also important in assessing trade-offs in ecosystem
conservation, and can be used to better inform development
plans. Adoption of ‘ecosystem-based management’ is key to
ensuring water long-term sustainability.

Water’s role in addressing critical
developmental challenges
Interlinkages between water and sustainable development
reach far beyond its social, economic and environmental
dimensions. Human health, food and energy security,
urbanization and industrial growth, as well as climate
change are critical challenge areas where policies and
actions at the core of sustainable development can be
strengthened (or weakened) through water.
Lack of water supply, sanitation and hygiene (WASH)
takes a huge toll on health and well-being and comes at
a large financial cost, including a sizable loss of economic
activity. In order to achieve universal access, there is a need for
accelerated progress in disadvantaged groups and to ensure
non-discrimination in WASH service provision. Investments in
water and sanitation services result in substantial economic
gains; in developing regions the return on investment has
been estimated at US$5 to US$28 per dollar. An estimated
US$53 billion a year over a five-year period would be needed
to achieve universal coverage – a small sum given this
represented less than 0.1% of the 2010 global GDP.

Environmental protection and ecosystem services
Most economic models do not value the essential services
provided by freshwater ecosystems, often leading to
unsustainable use of water resources and ecosystem
degradation. Pollution from untreated residential and
industrial wastewater and agricultural run-off also weakens
the capacity of ecosystem to provide water-related services.

The increase in the number of people without access to
water and sanitation in urban areas is directly related to the
rapid growth of slum populations in the developing world
and the inability (or unwillingness) of local and national
governments to provide adequate water and sanitation
facilities in these communities. The world's slum population,
which is expected to reach nearly 900 million by 2020, is
also more vulnerable to the impacts of extreme weather
events. It is however possible to improve performance of
urban water supply systems while continuing to expand the
system and addressing the needs of the poor.

Ecosystems across the world, particularly wetlands, are
in decline. Ecosystem services remain under-valued,

By 2050, agriculture will need to produce 60% more food
globally, and 100% more in developing countries. As the

WWDR 2015

3

spatial distributing of water resources and the frequency
and intensity of water-related disasters rise significantly with
increasing greenhouse gas emissions. Exploitation of new
data sources, better models and more powerful data analysis
methods, as well as the design of adaptive management
strategies can help respond effectively to changing and
uncertain conditions.

Regional perspectives
The challenges at the interface of water and sustainable
development vary from one region to another.

Haitian students breathe new life into depleted pine forest
Photo: UN Photo/Logan Abassi

current growth rates of global agricultural water demand
are unsustainable, the sector will need to increase its
water use efficiency by reducing water losses and, most
importantly, increase crop productivity with respect to
water. Agricultural water pollution, which may worsen
with increased intensive agriculture, can be reduced
through a combination of instruments, including more
stringent regulation, enforcement and well-targeted
subsidies.
Energy production is generally water-intensive. Meeting
ever-growing demands for energy will generate increasing
stress on freshwater resources with repercussions on other
users, such as agriculture and industry. Since these sectors
also require energy, there is room to create synergies as they
develop together. Maximizing the water efficiency of power
plant cooling systems and increasing the capacity of wind,
solar PV and geothermal energy will be a key determinant in
achieving a sustainable water future.
Global water demand for the manufacturing industry is
expected to increase by 400% from 2000 to 2050, leading
all other sectors, with the bulk of this increase occurring in
emerging economies and developing countries. Many large
corporations have made considerable progress in evaluating
and reducing their water use and that of their supply chains.
Small and medium-sized enterprises are faced with similar
water challenges on a smaller scale, but have fewer means
and less ability to meet them.
The negative impacts of climate change on freshwater
systems will most likely outweigh its benefits. Current
projections show that crucial changes in the temporal and

4

Executive summary

Increasing resource use efficiency, reducing waste and
pollution, influencing consumption patterns and choosing
appropriate technologies are the main challenges facing
Europe and North America. Reconciling different water
uses at the basin level and improving policy coherence
nationally and across borders will be priorities for many
years to come.
Sustainability in the Asia and the Pacific region is intimately
linked with progress in access to safe water and sanitation;
meeting water demands across multiple uses and mitigating
the concurrent pollution loads; improving groundwater
management; and increasing resilience to water-related
disasters.
Water scarcity stands at the forefront when considering
water-related challenges that impede progress towards
sustainable development in the Arab region, where
unsustainable consumption and over-abstraction of surface
and groundwater resources contribute to water shortages
and threaten long-term sustainable development. Options
being adopted to enhance water supplies include water
harvesting, wastewater reuse and solar energy desalination.
A major priority for the Latin America and the Caribbean
region is to build the formal institutional capacity to manage
water resources and bring sustainable integration of water
resources management and use into socio-economic
development and poverty reduction. Another priority is to
ensure the full realization of the human right to water and
sanitation in the context of the post-2015 development
agenda.
The fundamental aim for Africa is to achieve durable and
vibrant participation in the global economy while developing
its natural and human resources without repeating the
negatives experienced on the development paths of some
other regions. Currently only 5% of the Africa’s potential
water resources are developed and average per capita storage
is 200 m3 (compared to 6,000 m3 in North America). Only 5%

of Africa’s cultivated land is irrigated and less than 10% of
hydropower potential is utilized for electricity generation.

production, energy, industry and other social and economic
activities.

Responses and means of implementation

Achieving ‘The Future We Want’

The post-2015 development agenda
The Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) were successful
in rallying public, private and political support for global
poverty reduction. With regard to water, the MDGs
helped to foster greater efforts towards improving access
to drinking water supply and sanitation. However, the
experience of the MDGs shows that a thematically broader,
more detailed and context-specific framework for water,
beyond the issues of water supply and sanitation, is called
for in the post-2015 development agenda.

The outcome document of the 2012 UN Conference
on Sustainable Development (Rio+20), The Future We
Want, recognized that ‘water is at the core of sustainable
development’, but at the same time development and
economic growth creates pressure on the resource and
challenges water security for humans and nature. There
also remain major uncertainties about the amount of water
required to meet the demand for food, energy and other
human uses, and to sustain ecosystems. These uncertainties
are exacerbated by the impact of climate change.

In 2014, UN-Water recommended a dedicated Sustainable
Development Goal for water comprised of five target areas:
(i) WASH; (ii) water resources; (iii) water governance;
(iv) water quality and wastewater management; and (v)
water-related disasters. Such a focused water goal would
create social, economic, financial and other benefits that
greatly outweigh its costs. Benefits would extend to the
development of health, education, agriculture and food

Water management is the responsibility of many different
decision-makers in public and private sectors. The issue is
how such shared responsibility can be turned into something
constructive and elevated to a rallying point around which
different stakeholders can gather and participate collectively
to make informed decisions.

A stakeholder meeting in Punjab, India
Photo: India Water Portal

WWDR 2015

5

– greatly improve the resilience of communities. Blending
structural and non-structural flood management approaches
is particularly cost-effective.
Risks and various water-related security issues can also
be reduced by technical and social approaches. There are
a growing number of examples of reclaimed wastewater
being used in agriculture, for irrigating municipal parks and
fields, in industrial cooling systems, and in some cases safely
mixed in with drinking water.

A Somali woman drawing water from one of the many man-made
ponds dug through a UNDP-supported initiative to bring water
to drought affected communities.
Photo: UNDP Somalia, Jalam, Garowe, Somalia

Governance
Progress in water-related governance calls for engaging a
broad range of societal actors, through inclusive governance
structures that recognize the dispersion of decisionmaking across various levels and entities. It is, for example,
imperative to acknowledge women’s contributions to local
water management and role in decision-making related to
water.
While many countries face stalled water reform, others
have made great strides in implementing various aspects of
integrated water resources management (IWRM), including
decentralized management and the creation of river basin
organizations. As IWRM implementation has too often
been geared towards economic efficiency, there is a need to
put more emphasis on issues of equity and environmental
sustainability and adopt measures to strengthen social,
administrative and political accountability.
Minimizing risks and maximizing benefits
Investing in all aspects of water resources management,
services provision and infrastructure (development,
operation and maintenance) can generate significant social
and economic benefits. Spending on drinking water supply
and sanitation is highly cost-effective on health grounds
alone. Investments in disaster preparedness, improved
water quality and wastewater management are also highly
cost-effective. Distribution of costs and benefits among
stakeholders is crucial for financial feasibility.
Water-related disasters, the most economically and socially
destructive of all natural hazards, are likely to increase with
climate change. Planning, preparedness and coordinated
responses – including floodplain management, early
warning systems and increased public awareness of risk

6

Executive summary

Existing assessments of water resources are often
inadequate for addressing modern water demands.
Assessments are necessary to make informed investment
and management decisions, facilitate cross-sector decisionmaking, and address compromises and trade-offs between
stakeholder groups.
Equity
Social equity is one of the dimensions of sustainable
development that has been insufficiently addressed in
development and water policies. Sustainable development
and human rights perspectives both call for reductions in
inequities and tackling disparities in access to WASH services.
This calls for a reorientation of investment priorities and
operational procedures to provide services and allocate
water more equitably in society. A pro-poor pricing policy
keeps costs as low as possible, while ensuring that water is
paid for at a level that supports maintenance and potential
expansion of the system.
Water pricing also provides signals for how to allocate scarce
water resources to the highest-value uses – in financial
terms or other types of benefits. Equitable pricing and water
permits need to adequately assure that abstraction as well
as releases of used water support efficient operations and
environmental sustainability in ways that are adapted to the
abilities and needs of industry and larger-scale irrigation as
well as small-scale and subsistence farming activities.
The principle of equity, perhaps more than any technical
recommendation, carries with it the promise of a more
water-secure world for all.

Prologue
The future of water – A vision for 2050
WWAP | Richard Connor, Joana Talafré, Karine Peloffy, Erum Hasan and Marie-Claire Dumont

Over the past several decades, ever-growing demands for
– and misuse of – water resources have increased the risks
of pollution and severe water stress in many parts of the
world. The frequency and intensity of local water crises have
been increasing, with serious implications for public health,
environmental sustainability, food and energy security, and
economic development.

The fact is there is enough water available to meet the
world’s growing needs, but not without dramatically
changing the way water is used, managed and shared. The
global water crisis is one of governance, much more than of
resource availability, and this is where the bulk of the action
is required in order to achieve a water secure world.

Although the central and irreplaceable roles that water
occupies in all dimensions of sustainable development have
become progressively recognized, the management of
water resources and the provision of water-related services
remains far too low on the scales of public perception and
of governmental priorities. As a result, water often becomes
a limiting factor, rather than an enabler, to social welfare,
economic development and healthy ecosystems.

Evoluzione
Photo: Rhae
WWDR 2015

7

A vision for 2050
By 2050, humanity has achieved a water secure world,1
where every person has access to adequate quantities
of water of an acceptable quality and from sustainable
sources, to meet their basic needs and sustain their wellbeing and development. The human population is protected
from waterborne pollution and diseases and water-related
disasters. Accessing water is no longer a gendered burden,
and equitable access to water resources and services for
both women and men has fostered greater social inclusion.
Ecosystems are protected in a climate of peace and stability.
Local and national economies are more robust, as the
risks and uncertainties related to the availability of water
resources have been taken into account in the long-term
planning for poverty reduction and economic development.
Norms and attitudes have changed as a result of educational
interventions, institutional changes, improved scientific and
technical knowledge, sharing of lessons learned and best
practices, and proactive policy and legislative developments.
Access to water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) has been
made universal through the massive deployment of urban
water infrastructure as well as through decentralized smallscale water purification technology in remote areas, leading
to widely improved health conditions and allowing a life
of human dignity for all persons. Technological innovation
allows for reduced water consumption, such as through
waterless sanitation infrastructure that provides energy and
products from human excreta and eliminates pollution to
precious freshwater resources.
There is a balance between extracted water and water
returned to aquatic ecosystems and aquifers, ensuring their
long-term sustainability. Wastewater from all major human
uses is collected and treated to the most appropriate level
for reuse or release back to the environment, and maximized
reuse is a major contributor to the achievement of universal
access to water.
Water demand per capita and per unit of productivity is
significantly lower than it was in 2015 in the agricultural,
industrial and energy sectors, allowing for the resource to
be shared more equitably. Reduced competition among the
major water users has also helped increase their long-term
economic performance. Water productivity (e.g. ‘crop

1	Based on the definition of ‘water security’ by the UN-Water Task Force on
Water Security: “Water security is defined as the capacity of a population to
safeguard sustainable access to adequate quantities of acceptable quality
water for sustaining livelihoods, human well-being, and socio-economic
development, for ensuring protection against water-borne pollution and
water-related disasters, and for preserving ecosystems in a climate of
peace and political stability.”

8

Prologue

per drop’) in both rainfed and irrigated agriculture
has increased dramatically, and water use efficiency in
agriculture is widespread.
Agriculture as a whole is less vulnerable to rainfall
variability due to the widespread adoption of advanced
agro-technology, highly efficient irrigation techniques,
reliable wastewater reuse and state-of-the-art water
and soil conservation techniques. Water demand for
everyday domestic uses is met through the use of efficient
technologies and effective, equitable tariffs are in place.
Power generation has increasingly adopted water efficient
techniques (e.g. dry cooling), the proportion of less water
intensive renewable energy (e.g. wind, solar PV and
geothermal) has increased dramatically, and the development
of sustainable hydropower installations in sub-Saharan
Africa and South-East Asia has helped provide electricity to
hundreds of millions of people who were previously unserved.
Implementation and enforcement of water use regulation,
in combination with development and adoption of waterefficient manufacturing processes, has limited the water
demand for industry, prompting economic development.
Ecosystem-based management and other environmental
interventions that build resilience have been widely adopted;
these interventions also support protection of water sources,
catchments and riverbanks and promote conservation and
efficient use of water in agriculture and other economic
activities.
Sustainable production and consumption patterns related
to water are achieved based on consistent and transparent
water accounting systems that quantify water flows in the
economy and the environment, providing clear and relevant
information about related impacts. In this context, effective
decoupling of economic growth from water resource use
and negative environmental impacts has been accomplished.
Water is a key consideration for all sectors that use it as
a resource through production chains, resulting in better
supply and demand management. Efficiency measures
such as rainwater harvesting and wastewater reuse
are mainstreamed. Global markets and trade flows are
monitored through a global water sensitivity certification
scheme that ensures water-intensive products are exported
from areas with comparatively little or no water stress.
The economic value of water has been recognized and all
forms of economic enterprise take consideration of the
water implications of their actions. Explicit, transparent and
equitable regulation mechanisms are in place to address
water allocation, distribution, access and management,
without risk of corruption.

The world’s major transboundary basins and aquifers are
managed in a collaborative manner among the multiple
states involved, leading to improvements in quality and
ecological conditions as well as improved relations, capacity
and benefit-sharing among neighbouring countries. Flexible
multi-stakeholder water governance frameworks are
commonplace, as are examples of cooperation, knowledge
and technology transfers, and on-going participatory
dialogue at all levels: local, national, regional and global.
At the national level, governments rely on an integrated
water resources management (IWRM) approach. IWRM
is based on a sound and systematic knowledge of the
resource, both surface and groundwater, and of its current
state. It supports effective and adaptive decision-making
across a broad policy spectrum, including agriculture and
food security, energy, industry, financing, environmental
protection, public health and public security.
Financing for a wide range of water-related infrastructure
and services, including operation and maintenance, has
become a central element of government expenditure. A
flexible approach has been adopted to achieve financial
sustainability with on-going exploration of alternative
financing options. Financing from non-governmental sources
(including self-financing) and equitable tariffs support the
public sector in achieving complete coverage of water
management costs. This in turn has created an environment
that encourages private sector involvement because of the
lower risks to investment. Improved guidelines, legislation,
licensing agreements and contracts also support sustainable
financing for water-related infrastructure and services. Lifecycle planning approaches have improved understanding
of the short-term, mid-term and long-term costs associated
with development, maintenance and replacement of water
systems. Mid-course corrections are also possible due to a
flexible approach to financing for water. In using such an
approach, investment plans are transparent and accessible,
thus promoting accountability and participation from
stakeholders. The principle that sustainable financing is
necessary for ensuring universal access to water services
underpins this integrated approach.
Technology, better management approaches and effective
early warning systems enable rapid adaptive responses to
variations in water availability and extreme water-related
events. Despite massive reductions in greenhouse gas
emissions GHG emissions worldwide, impacts from such

WWDR 2015

extreme events are still increasing as a result of decades of
human-induced climate change. Surface and groundwater,
conjunctively managed, are at the centre of climate adaptation
strategies, and improved and expanded water storage
capacities create buffers for periods of water shortages.
The importance and value of ecosystems, and the services
they deliver through water, are widely recognized.
Appropriate steps to protect key aquatic systems have
been taken through basin-wide cooperation to ensure that
water abstraction remains compatible with hydrological
and environmental sustainability, pollution is eliminated,
and ecosystems are restored to provide climate-resilient
sources of freshwater. Human and natural infrastructures
are mutually reinforcing, and their coordinated management
increases benefits while reducing costs. Cities are redesigned
to give public access to natural watershed community
parks that, in addition to providing direct benefits in terms
of overall living standards, foster broad-based citizen
stewardship over water.
Equity, non-discrimination, participation and accountability
have become key principles in water governance. National
laws support the mainstreaming of the human rights-based
approach to water, which helps correct potential imbalances
and avoid social exclusion. Over the period 2015-2030, the
greenhouse gas emissions SDGs and targets, including an
SDG specifically dedicated to water, helped muster political
will, trigger public support and mobilize investments
between. Although these alone were not enough to
secure sustainable water for all, they led to new efforts
and international conventions that take full account of the
opportunities and limitations imposed by water on various
other development goals, leading to cross-cutting synergies
among sectors and actors. Policymakers, politicians,
regulators, the judiciary, educators, allocators of resources,
academics and members of civil society organizations are
able to work together within their own areas of expertise
to advance shared norms, protocols and understanding of
water as a resource and how best to consume and protect it.
Water’s role in underpinning all aspects of sustainable
development has become widely recognized. It is now
universally accepted that water is an essential primary
natural resource upon which nearly all social and economic
activities and ecosystem functions depend.
Getting there was not easy.

9

1

Unsustainable growth
WWAP | Richard Connor, Joana Talafré, Erum Hasan and Evisa Abolina

Unsustainable development pathways and governance
failures have generated immense pressures on water
resources, affecting its quality and availability, and in turn
compromising its ability to generate social and economic
benefits. The planet’s capacity to sustain the growing
demands for freshwater is being challenged, and there can
be no sustainable development unless the balance between
demand and supply is restored.
Global gross domestic product (GDP) rose at an average
of 3.5% per year from 1960 to 2012 (World Economics,
2014), and much of this economic growth has come at a
significant social and environmental cost. During this same
period, population growth, urbanization, migration and
industrialization, along with increases in production and
consumption, have generated ever-increasing demands
for freshwater resources. These same processes have
also contributed to the polluting of water resources,

further reducing their immediate accessibility and thus
compromising the capacity of ecosystems and the natural
water cycle to satisfy the world’s growing demand for water
(MEA, 2005a).

1.1 Increasing global water demand
Global water demand is largely influenced by population
growth, urbanization, food and energy security policies, and
macro-economic processes such as trade globalization and
changing consumption patterns.
Over the past century, the development of water resources
has been largely driven by the demands of expanding
populations for food, fibre and energy. Strong income
growth and rising living standards of a growing middle
class have led to sharp increases in water use, which can be
unsustainable, especially where supplies are vulnerable or
scarce and where its use, distribution, price, consumption

Traffic in Beijing
Photo: Li Lou/World Bank

10

Chapter 1	

and management are poorly managed or regulated.
Changing consumption patterns, such as increasing meat
consumption, building larger homes, and using more motor
vehicles, appliances and other energy-consuming devices,
typically involves increased water consumption for both
production and use.
Demand for water is expected to increase in all sectors of
production (WWAP, 2012). By 2030, the world is projected
to face a 40% global water deficit under the business-asusual (BAU) scenario (2030 WRG, 2009).
Population growth is another factor, but the relationship
is not linear: over the last decades, the rate of demand
for water has doubled the rate of population growth
(Shiklomanov, 1999; USCB, 2012). The world’s population is
growing by about 80 million people per year (USCB, 2012).
It is predicted to reach 9.1 billion by 2050, with 2.4 billion
people living in Sub-Saharan Africa, the region with the
most heterogeneously distributed water resources (UNDESA,
2013a).
Increasing urbanization (see Chapter 6) is causing specific
and often highly localized pressures on freshwater resource
availability, especially in drought-prone areas. More than
50% of people on the planet now live in cities, with 30%
of all city dwellers residing in slums. Urban populations
are projected to increase to a total of 6.3 billion by 2050
(WWAP, 2012). Developing countries account for 93% of
urbanization globally, 40% of which is the expansion of
slums. By 2030, the urban population in Africa and Asia will
double (UN-Habitat, 2010).
Excessive water withdrawals for agriculture and energy (see
Chapters 7 and 8) can further exacerbate water scarcity.
Freshwater withdrawals for energy production, which
currently account for 15% of the world’s total (WWAP, 2014),
are expected to increase by 20% through 2035 (IEA, 2012).
The agricultural sector is already the largest user of water
resources, accounting for roughly 70% of all freshwater
withdrawals globally, and over 90% in most of the world’s
least-developed countries (WWAP, 2014). Practices like
efficient irrigation techniques can have a dramatic impact on
reducing water demand, especially in rural areas.
Many of the pressures that impact water sustainability occur
at local and national levels, and are influenced by rules and
processes established at those levels. Increasingly, however,
the rules and processes that govern global economics –
investment of capital, trade, financial markets, as well as
international aid and development assistance – influence
local and national economies, which in turn dictate local

WWDR 2015

water demand and the sustainability of water resources at
the basin level (UNDESA, 2012).

1.2 Potential impacts of increasing demand
Competing demands will lead to increasingly difficult
allocation decisions and limit the expansion of sectors critical
to sustainable development, in particular food production
and energy. Inter-sectoral competition and the delicate
trade-offs between energy and agricultural production can
already be seen in the debate about biofuels. Production
of biofuel from food crops, such as corn, wheat and palm

Population growth, urbanization,
migration and industrialization,
along with increases in production
and consumption, have generated
ever-increasing demands for
freshwater resources
oil, has induced additional competition for land and water
even within the agricultural sector, especially in regions
already under water stress (HLPE, 2013), and has also been
associated with increased food prices. Growing food crops
for biofuel has spurred debate over ethical considerations
regarding future food security as well as existing efforts to
combat malnutrition (Pimentel et al., 2008).
Increasing industrial production (see Chapter 9) will also
lead to increased water use, with potential impacts on
water quality. In certain areas where water use for industrial
production is not well-regulated or enforced, pollution could
increase dramatically, closely linking increasing economic
activity with the degradation of environmental services.
Competition for water between water ‘uses’ and water
‘users’ increases the risk of localized conflicts and continued
inequities in access to services. In this competition, the
need to maintain water and ecosystem integrity in order
to sustain life and economic development is often ignored
(see Chapter 4). Frequently, the environment, as well as
marginalized and vulnerable people, are the biggest losers in
the competition for water.
Inter-state and regional conflicts may also emerge due
to water scarcity and poor management structures. It is
noteworthy that 158 of the world’s 263 transboundary
water basins lack any type of cooperative management
framework. Of the 105 water basins with water institutions,

Unsustainable growth

11

approximately two-thirds include three or more riparian
states (adjacent to rivers and streams); yet, less than 20%
of the accompanying agreements are multilateral (UNEP,
2002). This indicates that the mechanisms, political will and/
or resources to manage shared water resources bilaterally
or multilaterally and share potential benefits efficiently and
effectively are missing.

contributed to water resources management failures in
many parts of the world.
If institutional mechanisms within governments and other
governance structures continue to follow narrow objectives
along sector-specific mandates, fundamental disconnects
will continue to occur. This situation has already led to
negative impacts for the most vulnerable and marginalized
people; accelerated ecosystem degradation; depleted natural
resources; and slowed progress towards development goals,
poverty reduction and conflict mitigation (Bonn2011 Nexus
Conference, 2012).

Competition over water highlights the difficult policy
choices that are posed by the water-food-energy-nexus
and the trade-offs involved in managing each sector, either
separately or together. These three pillars of any functioning
society are closely interlinked, and choices made in one
area will inevitably impact the choices and hence resources
available in the others (WWAP, 2014).

1.3 Water resources: Status and availability
The distribution and availability of freshwater resources,
through precipitation and runoff, can be erratic, with
different areas of the globe receiving different quantities
of water over any given year. There can be considerable
variability between arid and humid climates and over wet
and dry seasons. However, compounded yearly averages
show significant variations in per capita water availability
between countries (Figure 1.1).

Over-abstraction is often the result of out-dated models
of natural resource use and governance, where the use
of resources for economic growth is under-regulated and
undertaken without appropriate controls. Unsustainable
withdrawals of surface and groundwater can severely
affect water availability for ecosystems and the services
they provide, with significant impacts on local economies
and human well-being. Inadequate assessment of water
resources, especially groundwater (Section 1.4), and in some
cases a disregard of information when it is available, have

Average annual total renewable water resources, 2011
Total3 renewable water resources per capita (2013)
(m per capita per year)

Figure

1.1

Climate change will exacerbate the risks associated with
variations in the distribution and availability of water
resources (see Chapter 10). Increasing variability in

No data
available

Absolute
scarcity

0

Stress

Scarcity

500

1 000

Vulnerability

1 700

2 500

7 500

15 000

50 000

Note: The figures indicate total renewable water resources per capita in m3.
Source: WWAP, with data from the FAO AQUASTAT database. (http://www.fao.org/nr/water/aquastat/main/index.stm) (aggregate data for all
countries except Andorra and Serbia, external data), and using UN-Water category thresholds.

12

Chapter 1	

precipitation patterns, which many countries have already
begun to experience, are leading to direct and indirect
effects on the whole of the hydrological cycle, with changes
in runoff and aquifer recharge, and in water quality (Alavian
et al., 2009). In addition, higher water temperatures due
both to warmer climates and increasing discharges of waste
heat, are expected to exacerbate many forms of pollution.
These include sediments, nutrients, dissolved organic carbon,
pathogens, pesticides and salt, as well as thermal pollution,
with possible negative impacts on ecosystems, human
health, and water system reliability and operating costs
(Bates et al., 2008).
Groundwater plays a substantial role in water supply, in
ecosystem functioning and human well-being. Worldwide,
2.5 billion people depend solely on groundwater resources
to satisfy their basic daily water needs, and hundreds of
millions of farmers rely on groundwater to sustain their
livelihoods and contribute to the food security of so many
others (UNESCO, 2012). Groundwater reportedly provides
drinking water to at least 50% of the global population
and accounts for 43% of all water used for irrigation
(Groundwater Governance, n.d.). Groundwater also sustains
the baseflows of rivers and important aquatic ecosystems.
Uncertainty over the availability of groundwater resources
and their replenishment rates pose a serious challenge to
their management and in particular to their ability to serve
as a buffer to offset periods of surface water scarcity (van
der Gun, 2012).

to the eutrophication of freshwater and coastal marine
ecosystems, creating ‘dead zones’ and erosion of natural
habitats (UN-Water, 2013).
The human interference with phosphorus and nitrogen
cycles is well beyond safe thresholds. Eutrophication of
surface water and coastal zones is expected to increase
almost everywhere until 2030 (UNDESA, 2012). Thereafter, it
may stabilize in developed countries, but is likely to continue
to worsen in developing countries. Globally, the number of
lakes with harmful algal blooms will increase by at least 20%
until 2050. Phosphorus discharges will increase more rapidly
than those of nitrogen and silicon, exacerbated by the rapid
growth in the number of dams (UNDESA, 2012).
The disruption of ecosystems through unabated urbanization,
inappropriate agricultural practices, deforestation and
pollution is undermining the environment’s capacity to
provide basic water-related services (e.g. purification,
storage). Degraded ecosystems can no longer regulate
and restore themselves; they lose their resilience, further
accelerating the decline in water quality and availability (see
Chapter 4).
Global environmental degradation, including climate
change, has reached a critical level with major ecosystems
approaching thresholds that could trigger their massive
collapse (UNDESA, 2012). This is a result of past failures
to design decision-making mechanisms that would
appropriately govern the global and national commons
and the earth’s shared natural resources. Despite efforts
to create cooperation around environmental treaties and
agreements, decisions directly affecting environmental issues
are often taken outside of environmental policy circles. Any
predominance of economic logic without the integration of
social and environmental considerations, as it currently exists
in many development approaches, means that long-term
environmental objectives may be set aside in favour of shortterm economic goals.

Groundwater supplies are diminishing, with an estimated
20% of the world’s aquifers being over-exploited (Gleeson
et al., 2012), leading to serious consequences such as
land subsidence and saltwater intrusion in coastal areas
(USGS, 2013). Groundwater levels are declining in several
of the world’s intensely used agricultural areas and around
numerous mega-cities (Groundwater Governance, n.d.).
In the Arabian Peninsula, freshwater withdrawal, as a
percentage of internal renewable water resources, was
estimated at 505% in 2011 (FAO AQUASTAT), with
significant volumes of groundwater reserves being
transboundary in nature (UNESCWA/BGR, 2013).

1.4 Constraints on water resources
management

Water availability is also affected by pollution. Most
problems related to water quality are caused by intensive
agriculture, industrial production, mining and untreated
urban runoff and wastewater. Expansion of industrial
agriculture has led to increases in fertilizer applications.
These and other industrial water pollutants create
environmental and health risks. Excessive loads of nitrogen
and phosphate, the most common chemical contaminants in
the world’s freshwater resources (WWAP, 2009), contribute

The previous sections of this chapter have provided a
summary view of the processes that drive increasing
demands for water, their potential consequences and what
these could mean for water resources. However, there are
additional constraints that pose significant challenges to
improving water resources management. These transcend
any type of pressure-state-response analysis, yet they are
tangible and merit a critical level of consideration when
addressing water-related issues in the context of sustainable
development.

WWDR 2015

Unsustainable growth

13

1.4.1 Persistent poverty
Persistent poverty is usually the result of a vicious cycle
in which limited income converges with limited access to
resources. Safe water and sanitation are precursors to health
care, education and jobs (see Chapter 2). For the last 15
years, eradication of extreme poverty and hunger has been
the number one priority under the MDGs. Nevertheless,
as of 2012, 1.2 billon people still lived in extreme poverty
(Lockhart and Vincent, 2013), the majority located in slums,
often lacking adequate drinking water and sanitation
services (UN-Habitat, 2011). The global limit of ecological
sustainability of water available for abstraction is reported
to have been reached (Barker et al., 2000). Regionally, this
limit has already been exceeded for about one-third of the
human population and it will rise to about half by 2030
(WWAP, 2012). Apart from access to sanitation and clean
drinking water, the world’s 850 million rural poor also lack
access to water for agricultural production, which is usually
their primary source of income (Soussan and Arriens, 2004).
Without access to improved agricultural water management,
poverty in these regions will persist (Namara et al., 2010).
Women and youth are disproportionately impacted both by
water scarcity and the lack of safe drinking water, increasing
the vulnerability associated with persistent poverty. Water
policies are often based on generalized perspectives that
lack gender perspectives and local knowledge (WWAP,
2012). By failing to integrate gender considerations in
water resources management and also in sectors such as
agriculture, urban water supply, energy and industry, gender
inequities will persist, preventing the adoption of innovative
solutions that may be put forth by women (WWAP, 2012).

In most countries (...) funding
for water infrastructure is neither
adequate, nor sustainable
1.4.2 Discrimination and inequalities in access to
drinking water and sanitation services
Socio-economic inequalities, and the lack of policies to
effectively address them, were among the main obstacles
to the achievement of MDGs in general and improved
access to sanitation and safe drinking water in particular
(Donat Castelló et al., 2010). Many people around the globe
including women, children, the elderly, indigenous peoples
and people with disabilities have lower levels of access to
safe drinking water, hygiene or sanitation facilities than
other groups (see Chapter 5). While access to safe drinking
water and sanitation is recognized as a basic human right,

14

Chapter 1	

discrimination based on ethnicity, religion, economic class,
social status, gender, age or physical abilities often restricts
people from accessing land and water resources and related
services. Such exclusion has long-term social and economic
effects, as the disadvantaged are more likely to remain poor,
lacking opportunities for education, employment and social
engagement.
Population dynamics also affect access. High urbanization
rates in many countries have not been matched by
governments’ ability to provide adequate drinking water and
sanitation infrastructure and improved service delivery (UNHabitat, 2011). Human migration from rural to urban areas
is posing a continuous challenge to the provision of basic
drinking water and sanitation services, especially in poor
peri-urban and slum areas, as well as to public health, in
particular to prevent outbreaks of cholera and other waterrelated diseases (WHO and UNICEF, 2014a).
In the rural context, which require different systems to
those generally found in urban settings, providing adequate
drinking water and sanitation is also challenging. The lack
of infrastructure and services means that many people do
not have access to adequate sanitation and must rely on
unsafe water supplies. The lack of access to safe drinking
water coupled with other shortages of basic services, scarce
resources and limited income-generating possibilities, can
further entrench vulnerability.
1.4.3 Insufficient and unsustainable financing for
water resources management and services
Water services remain rather low on the scale of policy
priorities, despite well-documented contributions to human
and economic development. When compared with other
development sectors, particularly education and health,
sanitation and drinking water services receive a relatively
low priority for both official development assistance
(ODA) and national expenditure (UNDESA, 2013a). This
under-prioritization of water directly contravenes a State’s
obligation to expend maximum available resources to
promote the progressive realization of the human right to
water and sanitation for all persons, without discrimination.
Financing for water resources management is also usually a
low priority, in spite of it being a cornerstone of economic
growth (see Chapter 3) (SIWI, 2005).
In most countries, funding for water infrastructure comes
from government allocations, although many developing
countries still depend on external assistance to fund water
resources management and utilities. This is neither adequate,
nor sustainable. Most countries report that information
required for adequate financial planning in the water

BOX

1.1

The terms ‘safe’ and ‘improved’ in the MDG context
When it was first devised, the objective of the water target in the Millennium Development Goals was to ensure access to ‘safe’
drinking water. The precise wording is as follows:
Goal 7: Ensure environmental sustainability
Target 7.C: Halve, by 2015, the proportion of the population without sustainable access to safe drinking water and basic sanitation.
There were no practical means, however, to measure the ‘safety’ of the water sources people use. The WHO AND UNICEF Joint
Monitoring Programme (JMP) for Water Supply and Sanitation started using the proxy indicator of an ‘improved’ water source
for monitoring Target 7.C:
Indicator: Proportion of population using an improved drinking water source
All ‘improved’ water sources are not necessarily ‘safe’. An improved water source is one where human use is kept separate
from use by animals and faecal contamination. In many cases the water from such sources is not of good enough quality to
be safe for human consumption (Bain et al, 2014).
Various estimations of the number of people who use ‘improved’ sources that are not ‘safe’ now exist and these indicate that
billions of people do not have access to water that is truly safe. See, for example, the UN Report of the High-Level Panel of
Eminent Persons on the Post-2015 Development Agenda (UN, 2013a). The number of people without ‘safe’ water could be
as large as those who do not have access to basic sanitation (about 2.5 billion), for which progress is unsatisfactory by nearly
all accounts. In its latest report, the WHO/UNICEF JMP recognizes and explains the inadequacy of the improved water proxy
indicator and outlines plans for strengthening monitoring and encouraging safe management of water sources and sanitation
services. Its commissioned studies have found that, at any given time, 1.8 billion people are using a source of drinking water
that is faecally (TBC)-contaminated (Bain et al., 2014).
The unintended consequence of using the proxy indicator ‘improved water source’ for the ‘safe’ drinking water target is that
the indicator has redefined the target by default; therefore, the original ambition of MDG 7.C has been downgraded. The
claim that the original target has been reached is misleading, because what has really been met is a new and unintended MDG
target for ‘improved’ water. This redefinition of the original target can send decision-makers in the wrong direction, leading
them to believe that target 7.C has been met and a problem solved, when in reality much still remains to be done.
Contributed by AquaFed (www.aquafed.org/).

services sector, such as information on users and their
potential contributions, is insufficient. Costs of infrastructure
operation and maintenance are often neglected or not well
factored into water mobilization projects. As a result, many
water systems are inadequately maintained, leading to
damages, losses, unreliability, and decreasing quality and
quantity of service to users. Financing is reported to be
particularly inadequate for sanitation, with drinking water
absorbing the majority of funding available particularly
in developing countries (WHO, 2012a). Financing for
wastewater treatment is chronically neglected.
Despite persistent management obstacles relating to
financing in the water sector, over 50% of countries low
in the Human Development Index (HDI) have reported
that financing for water resources development and

WWDR 2015

management from government budgets and official
development assistance have been increasing over the last
20 years (UN-Water, 2012).
1.4.4 Data and information
Monitoring water availability, use and the related impacts,
represents a massive and persistent challenge. Reliable
and objective information about the state of water
resources, their use and management is often poor, lacking
or otherwise unavailable. Worldwide, water observation
networks provide incomplete and incompatible data
on surface and groundwater quality and quantity, and
no comprehensive information exists on wastewater
generation and treatment (WWAP, 2009). Various studies
and assessments provide a snapshot of the state and use
of water resources at a given time and place, but generally

Unsustainable growth

15

do not provide a broader, more complete picture of how
different dimensions of water are changing over time in
different parts of the world.
In the context of sustainable development, where water
is often a key driver – and a potential limiting factor – for
economic growth, human well-being and environmental
health, this lack of information and knowledge creates
barriers to cohesive policy formulation and sound decisionmaking on developmental objectives. For example, there
are often too few reliable metrics on which to track the
outcomes of water productivity improvement measures
(WWAP, 2014).
From an economic perspective, there is a need to couple
data and information on water resources and their use with
indicators of growth in various economic sectors in order
to assess its role and contribution in terms of economic
development, and to garner a better understanding of its
consequences on the resource and different users. Similarly,
quantifying water’s role in maintaining healthy ecosystems
is often limited to the determination of ‘environmental
flows’ (i.e. the quantity and timing of water flows required
to sustain freshwater ecosystems). Although an important
and useful tool for managing freshwater ecosystems,
environmental flows are often based on the requirements
of certain indicator species and may not take full account of
the interconnections between ecological systems and their
impacts on economic and social development.
In terms of human well-being, much of the focus has been
on monitoring access to safe water supply and sanitation
services, which has in large part been driven by MDG target
7.C. Here too, data and information challenges persist,
including the difficulty in translating the term ‘safe’ into a

16

Chapter 1	

measurable metric (see Box 1.1). Water quality testing is
still not available in most countries, making it difficult to
determine if improved sources actually deliver ‘safe’ water
to the user or whether the risks of contracting water-related
diseases remain. Furthermore, most countries do not report
on other aspects of access to ‘safe’ water such as the
quantity available, possible security threats including as risks
on the journey to fetch water, frequency and duration of
access or supply, and water’s potentially prohibitive cost (Dar
and Khan, 2011).
Although real progress has been made, full compliance
with the human right to access safe drinking water clearly
requires something that is significantly better than many
of the improved sources that people have to use. This
situation also highlights the need to select target indicators
based on good (and readily available) data, and to craft
and implement good monitoring mechanisms. The MDG
indicators focused on aggregate outcomes, which masked
the fact that access improvements often did not reach the
most vulnerable groups such as the elderly poor, people
with disabilities, women and children. Indicators that
disaggregate data by gender, age and social group pose
both a challenge and an opportunity for the SDGs in the
post-2015 development agenda (UN-Water, 2013).
While data availability and quality remain a concern, a
limited number of core indicators pertaining to various
aspects of water resources, services, uses and management
in the context of sustainable development are available.
Several of these indicators are used in this Report. They
are compiled and presented in Case studies and Indicators
report (WWAP, 2015).

PART 1
WATER AND THE THREE DIMENSIONS
OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
Chapters
2. Poverty and social equity – 3. Economic development
– 4. Ecosystems

Water consumption of ricefields (Viet Nam)
Global Water Consumption
Photo: UN Photo/Kibae Park

The Prologue presents an ideal future where water resources are developed and used sustainably for
the benefit of all. Although this vision for water is fully attainable by 2050, a number of obstacles
related to unsustainable growth, as well as other challenges described in Chapter 1, will first need to
be overcome.
A water-secure world is more than a goal unto itself. It is a critical and necessary step towards a
sustainable future. Progress in each of the three dimensions of sustainable development − social,
economic and environmental − is bound by the limits imposed by finite and often vulnerable water
resources and the way these resources are managed to provide services and benefits. It is therefore
imperative that the role of water is taken into account, when seeking to address all major sustainable
development objectives.
Part 1 of this Report, presented in three chapters, explores the complex linkages between water and
the three dimensions of sustainable development. Chapter 2 examines water and the social dimension
of sustainable development with a focus on poverty. Chapter 3 presents a series of sound arguments
that show how water is a central pillar of sustainable economic growth. Chapter 4 describes the
fundamental and irreplaceable role of ecosystems and the services they provide in the context of
water and sustainable development.

18

WATER AND THE THREE DIMENSIONS OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT

Poverty and social equity
UNDP | Joakim Harlin, Marianne Kjellén and Håkan Tropp
WWAP | Richard Connor, Joana Talafré, Karine Peloffy, Erum Hasan and Marie-Claire Dumont

2.1 The water and poverty relationship
A daily struggle for water is one of the terrible burdens of
poverty, especially for women and girls who spend endless
hours fetching water over long distances. Sources of water
are often unclean or unaffordable, or groups are simply cut
off from using a particular water source. Many poor urban
dwellers have to pay very high water prices to informal
water vendors or do without water. Not having sufficient
and safe water means constant weakness and pain through
recurrent diarrhoea and other debilitating or fatal waterrelated diseases. It leads to loss of time, educational and
employment opportunities. Low incomes and limited access
to water also means choosing between paying for water,
food, school fees or medicines. Around the world, 748
million people lack access to an improved drinking water
source, while billions more lack drinking water that is really
safe. In 2012, 2.5 billion people did not have access to an
improved sanitation facility (WHO and UNICEF, 2014a).
Access to water for household uses is critical for a family’s
health and social dignity. Access to water for productive uses
such as agriculture and family-run businesses is vital to realize
livelihood opportunities, generate income and contribute

BOX

2.1

2

to economic productivity. Almost one-fifth of the world's
population – about 1.2 billion people – live in areas where
water is physically scarce (UN-Water/FAO, 2007). One quarter
of the global population also live in developing countries
that face water shortages due to weak governance and
human capacities, and a lack of infrastructure to transport
water from rivers and aquifers (Comprehensive Assessment
of Water Management in Agriculture, 2007). In practice, this
means fewer opportunities to make use of water resources
to grow food and for other productive purposes.
Access to water is linked to poverty. Reducing poverty
through water management is a useful pro-poor framework
for action, allowing for the introduction of inter-related issues
of governance, water quality, access, livelihood opportunities,
capacity-building and empowerment, water-related disaster
prevention and management, and ecosystem management.
Access to water is also about access to land. In most cases,
access to and ownership of land implies access to the water
that passes through, lies beneath the surface or comes from
the sky. The land-water interdependency is often overlooked
and handled under separate governance structures.

Water supply investments: The importance of governance and financing for reducing poverty
Weak governance, in combination with low incomes and costs of services, make it much harder for poor people to acquire
sustainable access to water. Even in situations where investments are made, sustainability remains a serious challenge. As
much as 30% to 50% of water supply projects fail after two to five years. Though figures differ between countries, about 30%
or more of water supply points are non-functioning, with another 10% to 20% being only partially functional. “Figures collated
by the Rural Water Supply Network indicate an average rate of 36% non-functionality for hand pumps across 21 countries in
sub-Saharan Africa.” This level of failure represents a total investment of between US$1.2 billion and US$1.5 billion in the last
20 years. A European Union evaluation report of 23 water supply and sanitation projects in sub-Saharan Africa found that
equipment was generally installed as planned, but fewer than half of the projects’ results meet the needs of beneficiaries. A
majority of the projects were potentially sustainable in the sense of using standard technologies and local materials. However,
their results and benefits will not continue to flow in the medium and long term unless non-tariff revenue is ensured; or
because of institutional ineffectiveness to regulate, monitor, collect service fees, manage procurement processes, and collect
and disseminate information, or deficiencies in the capacities of operators to run the equipment installed.
Sources: ECA (2012); IRC (2009) and RWSN (2010).
Note: The evidence on unsustainable water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) investments is mounting; see, for example, Ministry of Foreign Affairs of
the Netherlands (2012).

WWDR 2015

Poverty and social equity

19

The relation between water and poverty is a two-way street.
Poverty itself can have negative effects on the management
of water resources and services. The desperation and
limitations arising from poverty can be a driver of pollution
and unsustainable use of water resources. Poverty can also
render existing investments in water less efficient, since
households and communities often find it difficult to
finance, operate and maintain infrastructure such as rural
water pumps. This poses a serious threat to long-term
development and poverty reduction (Box 2.1).

2.2 The equity challenge
Great strides have been made in many countries − such as
Brazil, China and India − to reduce poverty. The Human
Development Report (HDR) 2013 suggests that by 2020
the combined economic output of these countries alone

BOX

2.2

will surpass the aggregate production of Canada, France,
Germany, Italy, the United Kingdom and the United States
(UNDP, 2013). Much of this expansion is being driven by
new trade and technology partnerships within the South.
However, economic growth itself is not a guarantee for
wider social progress. Poverty still remains at unacceptable
levels even in these three countries, as elsewhere. In many
developing countries, there is a wide – and often widening
– gap between rich and poor, and between those who can
and cannot exploit new opportunities arising from economic
growth. This means that access to good schools, health care,
electricity, safe water and other critical services still remains
elusive for many people who live in economies on the rise.
Other challenges, such as economic shocks, food shortages
and climate change, threaten to undercut economic and
social progress made in recent years.

Safeguarding the interests of poor people: Global trends with local effects
According to the Water Governance Facility (WGF, 2012), “Most vulnerable in a world of greater water insecurity are poor
people living in informal urban settlements and those in rural areas whose livelihoods are dependent upon rainfed agriculture
or the availability of grasslands and water for grazing animals. Protecting the rights of such people and avoiding elite capture
of the resource and the benefits derived from it require tools that foster a more equitable allocation of scarce water resources.”
Two global trends are converging: climate change, and growing economic development in least developed countries (LDCs)
and emerging economies. This convergence is certain to intensify the water insecurity of poor and marginalized people in
low income countries and add to the urgency for new approaches to the allocation of water resources for development. The
OECD Environmental Outlook to 2050 (OECD, 2012a) estimates that by 2050 water demands from manufacturing industries and
thermal power generation will increase dramatically, especially in developing countries and the BRICS (the five major emerging
national economies of Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa). In the manufacturing industry alone, the share of total
water demand by 2050 is expected to increase from 7% to 22%. The water demand increase in BRICS will be sevenfold, while in
developing countries it will come close to increasing by 400%. In OECD countries, an increase is expected of some 65%. While
such increased demand for water can indicate positive economic growth ahead it also implies the huge challenge of how to
allocate scarce water between and within different sectors such as industry, energy, agriculture and domestic use. There is also
the huge challenge of how different groups, such as poor people, will be affected.
“To allocate water in ways that are efficient, equitable and sustainable in a world of increasing demand and more variable
water supplies, the following issues could be considered:
• M
 arket mechanisms (trading systems and full-cost pricing through valuation) excel in the efficiency arena, but can fall short
when the goal is to realize the right to water and sanitation or when externalities that impact environmental sustainability
are not taken into account.
• F rom an efficiency perspective, when markets do not fully capture the total value of water, other mechanisms have to be
engaged to allocate water to the highest value uses and users. Yet what constitutes ‘efficiency’ and ‘highest value uses and
users’ is often subjective. People living at the margins seldom qualify as high value users, yet good development practice
demands that their needs be given priority.
• C
 onflict resolution mechanisms and rubrics for managing trade-offs are often needed to facilitate water sharing among
competing users such as upstream and downstream stakeholders. Ensuring that powerful interests do not dominate or
entirely capture the process requires robust safeguards to ensure that poor people can participate meaningfully, hold
officials to account and access information.” (WGF, 2012)

20

Chapter 2

WATER AND THE THREE DIMENSIONS OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT

The Global Risks 2014 report finds that income disparity
is the risk most likely to cause an impact on the global
scale in the next decade (WEF, 2014a). More than 80%
of the world’s population live in countries where income
differentials are widening (UNDP, 2007). The HDR 2013
identified four key areas to keep the momentum of
economic growth: (a) enhancing equity, including the gender
dimension; (b) enabling greater voice and participation of
citizens, including youth; (c) confronting environmental
pressures; and (d) managing demographic change (UNDP,
2013).
Development is about improving people’s well-being,
giving them a say in the decisions that affect their lives,
and expanding their freedoms, choices and opportunities.
From this perspective, the way in which water resources
are allocated in countries around the world is deeply
problematic. Water resource allocation for a range of
productive purposes, from agriculture to industry to
ecosystem services, is typically inequitable. Generally
speaking, comparatively powerless groups tend to be shut
out of access to water, as well as the processes whereby
allocation decisions are made. Although integrated water
resources management (IWRM) approaches are guided by
a balanced concern for economic efficiency, environmental
sustainability and social equity, in practice, the social equity
goal is often given less priority when water allocation
decisions are made (WGF, 2012).
Non-inclusive growth coupled with inappropriate allocation
of water resources and services and increasing demand for
water by industry, agriculture and households run the risk
of making societies more unstable and prone to tensions
and conflicts. While demand is expected to continue
to grow as a result of economic growth and changing
consumer preferences, much can be done in the ways water
is allocated and used. There is a need for more effective
allocation mechanisms that also take into account the
interests of poor people, and that can mediate grievances
between different users (Box 2.2).

water resources management can provide fewer risks and
increased productivity gains across and within sectors –
such as land, energy, food, and mining – and upkeep of
ecosystem services.
Water management contributes to four key dimensions of
poverty reduction (UNDP/SEI, 2006):
Enhanced livelihoods security relates to incentives
provided to poor people to develop abilities and make use
of their assets to earn an acceptable living. Access to water
is key to realizing livelihood opportunities and continuity of
water flows determine the status and integrity of ecosystem
services on which poor people are directly dependent, such
as fishing or grazing of cattle. Reliable water supplies are

Comparatively powerless
groups tend to be shut out of
not just access to water but also
the processes whereby allocation
decisions are made
critical for a range of food production activities including
irrigation, rearing of livestock, aquaculture, horticulture
and other types of production in rural and certain urban
areas. It is therefore critical that water interventions support
diversified domestic livelihood opportunities such as
vegetable production, pottery or laundering.
Reduced health risks relates to mitigating the social and
environmental factors that put poor and vulnerable groups
– especially women and children – at high risk from diseases

2.3 Key dimensions of poverty reduction
Water and economic development are closely associated,
and poverty-oriented water interventions can have
direct, immediate and long-term social, economic and
environmental results, making a difference to billions of
people. Investing in improved water management and
services is a prerequisite to reducing poverty and achieving
sustainable economic growth. Poor people receive very
direct benefits from improved water and sanitation services
through better health, reduced health costs, increased
productivity and time-savings. Improved management of
“One usual working day in Europe”
Photo: Svetlana Punte/European Commission DG EMPL
WWDR 2015

Poverty and social equity

21

and poor nutrition leading to premature death. Waterborne diseases, such as diarrhoea and water-related vectorborne diseases like malaria are among the leading causes
of death, especially affecting children and other vulnerable
groups. Increased access to safe water, basic sanitation and
better hygiene is one of the most effective ways to improve
health and reduce poverty. From an economic perspective
it is a highly attractive investment since the rate of return is
in excess of those found in many so-called productive uses.
Another effective strategy to alleviate poverty is to enhance
the design of water infrastructure and water management
in, for example reservoirs and irrigation structures, to reduce
vector-borne disease transmission.
Reduced vulnerability implies reducing the risks and
impacts of hazards related to volatile politics and economics
as well as unsustainable environmental trends and shocks
from water-related natural disasters. For example, floods
and droughts undercut development and can lock people
in to poverty and desperation. Long-term trends of
degrading ecosystems, increased rainfall variability, water
pollution and land degradation place additional strains on
poor people and long-term development. Investment in
improved water storage to ‘even out’ water access in and
between rainy seasons and support preparedness for flood
management is also an imperative part of any poverty
reduction strategy.
Economic growth for poverty reduction is also critical.
However, what matters is the quality of growth and how
new wealth in a society is distributed. Water management
and services provision are catalysts for such growth,
which must create new livelihood opportunities for poor
people. Water provides livelihood and entrepreneurial
opportunities in various productive areas at many levels to
develop supplying technologies, services and constructions.
The untapped potential of local entrepreneurs needs to
be realized since it can generate high returns for local
economies in terms of jobs and multiplier effects (see
Chapter 3). Major water infrastructure developments can
generate significant national as well as regional economic
benefits, and lessen vulnerabilities related to food and
energy security. Such investments need to be done with
proper impact assessments and in collaboration with
other countries whenever relevant. These investments are
not a panacea, however, and need to be accompanied by

22

Chapter 2

smaller-scale investments in relation to irrigation, power
generation, crop diversification, institutional development,
better access to markets by farmers and rural artisans, and
capacity development. A diversified investment strategy is
required to make good progress in reducing poverty.

2.4 Targeting gender equality
Improved gender equality is a key to boosting water
management and access. The past two decades have
seen a significant increase in gender awareness and the
role women play to promote improved access to and
management of water. However, in spite of a big push to
mainstream gender in national development plans and
policies, results on the ground remain rather limited. Women
have considerable knowledge about the location and quality
of local water resources and how to store water, but this
knowledge is seldom tapped, and inclusion of women in
decision-making on water development and management at
all levels is still lagging. A study in South Asia, for example,
attributed the workforce gender disparity to women’s
broader challenges of participating in the labour market (e.g.
lack of access to childcare or work-schedule flexibility) and
to their educational opportunities, which do not necessarily
favour engineering education currently demanded by many
parts of the water sector (UN-Women, 2012).
The current limited water access by the poor can result not
only from economic pressures, but also from socio-political
and environmental pressures, such as armed conflicts and
droughts. Thus, women and children may have to walk even
longer distances to access water, which can result in an
increased exposure to violence in politically volatile areas.
Access to safe drinking water and sanitation is a human
right, yet its limited realization throughout the world often
has disproportionate impacts on women. The fact that many
women and children are carrying water as a daily chore
has a number of social and economic implications. A 2012
estimate suggests that cutting just 15 minutes off the
walking time to a water source could reduce under-five child
mortality by 11% and the prevalence of nutrition-depleting
diarrhoea by 41%. In Ghana, a 15-minute reduction in
water collection time increased girls’ school attendance
from 8% to 12%. A Bangladesh school sanitation project
that provided separate facilities for boys and girls boosted
girls’ school attendance by an annual average of 11% (UNWomen, 2012; Nauges and Strand, 2011).

WATER AND THE THREE DIMENSIONS OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT

Economic development
UNDESA/UN-DPAC | Josefina Maestu (UNDESA/UN-DPAC), Carlos Mario Gómez (Universidad de Alcalá), Colin Green (University of Middlesex)
With contributions from Alan Hall (Global Water Partnership), Xavier Leflaive (OECD), Jack Moss (Aquafed) and Diego Rodriguez (World Bank)

3.1 Expanding economic opportunities
through water infrastructure
Developed and developing economies require water
resources and water infrastructure to support activities
and services needed for all three dimensions of sustainable
development. Economic development and water are
intimately connected in many ways. Water is an essential
resource for economic production and an ‘enabler’ of
trade for most types of goods and services. Water is as an
essential input for the production of food and electricity,
as well as for many manufactured products. Investments
in water infrastructure are therefore fundamental to
unlocking the full potential of economic growth (Box 3.1).
Water supply (quantity and quality) at the place where the
user needs it must be reliable and predictable to support
financially sustainable investments in economic activities.
This requires both hard and soft infrastructure that is
financed, operated and reliably maintained. In addition,
infrastructure to reduce risk of water scarcity and to manage
water-related disasters such as floods and droughts can
make a country’s development efforts more sustainable by
reducing the vulnerability and/or increasing the resilience of
economies to extreme events (Box 3.2).

BOX

3.1

3

3.2 Facilitating structural change
Over the long term, water development benefits spill
over into the entire economy. Wise investment in water
infrastructure and sound water management are both
essential to facilitate the structural changes that are

Water development benefits
spill over into the entire
economy over the long term
necessary in many developing and intermediate economies.
In rural areas, irrigation can be a pre-condition for
modernized agriculture, paving the way for industry by
facilitating the accumulation of capital that allows surplus
investments (Box 3.3).
When favoured by enabling social and political conditions,
better living conditions can translate into new and
heightened income opportunities. These in turn generate
the savings required to foster capital accumulation with
further improvements in infrastructure health and education

Opportunities for water investments to facilitate economic growth
The expansion of irrigated agriculture in the 1950s and 1960s in Asia saw a doubling of cereal production and a 30% increase
in calories available per person. Investment in water supply and irrigation can produce high economic rates of return, as
measured by benefit-cost ratios, and compare well with those in other sectors of infrastructure. Groundwater development
has brought major socio-economic benefits to rural communities and in many countries has helped to alleviate agrarian
poverty through increasing food security. According to the GWP (2012), “In South Asia, the groundwater boom has also
largely been pro-poor, with marginal farmers of holdings smaller than two hectares increasing their groundwater-irrigated
area by three times more proportionally than farmers with more than ten hectares of land.”
Smallholder farmers in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia are increasingly using small-scale irrigation to cultivate their land
and examples show it is leading to improved yields and reduced risks from climate variability (Giordano et al., 2012).
Irrigated systems will increasingly require greater storage capacity to respond to variability in rainfall and more frequent
and intense droughts. Quick and Winpenny (2014) have found that, “In Madhya Pradesh, incomes of farmers who
constructed on-farm ponds to irrigate pulses and wheat have risen by over 70%; as a result, they have also been able to
improve and expand their livestock herds. In Tanzania, half of the dry-season cash incomes of smallholders come from
growing irrigated vegetables.”

WWDR 2015

Economic development

23

that widen the potential opportunities for production and
reinforce the gains of progress.

economic benefits of investing in basic water services have a
direct correlation with poverty alleviation (see Chapters 2 and 5).

Basic provision of water and sanitation services is required to
unlock the potential of economic growth, particularly to break
the vicious cycle of low productivity linked to poor health and
lack of educational opportunities that maintains poverty and
economic stagnation. Gains in terms of time-saving, improved
health and more effective learning demonstrate that improve
access to water and sanitation is one of the more labour-saving
solutions. It has the twin effect of (a) freeing resources for
the production of food and other goods and services; and (b)
expanding the productive potential of the economy by indirectly
enhancing human capital. Not surprisingly, the demonstrated

Using Albert Hirschman’s (1958) terms, one can say that the
backward linkages of increased water supplies at affordable
prices serve to foster further economic advances in many
productive areas of the economy. In turn, higher production,
means more income opportunities that enhance expenditure
in health and education and many other goods and services
reinforcing a self-sustained dynamic of economic development.

BOX

3.2

3.3 Investment challenges
Success of water investments can be measured by the
sustainable economic progress and development to which it

Investing in water infrastructure: When damages avoided become main benefits
In Kenya, the 1997-98 floods cost the country at least US$870 million (11% of GDP) and the 1999-2000 drought cost at least
US$1.4 billion a year (16% of GDP). On average, the country experiences a flood that costs about 5.5% of GDP every seven
years and a drought that costs it about 8% of GDP every five years. This translates to a direct long-term fiscal liability of about
2.4% GDP per annum. This means that Kenya’s GDP annually should grow at a rate of at least 5% to 6% in order to start
reducing poverty. In 1996, a good year in Kenya, real GDP growth was 4.1% (SIWI, 2005).
In Pakistan, three years of repeated floods in 2010, 2011 and 2012 inflicted serious damage on the national economy, halving its
potential economic growth. The economy grew on average at a rate of 2.9% per year during this period. That is less than half the rate
of 6.5% that Pakistan could potentially have achieved if it had not faced economic and human losses associated with flooding.
Pakistan lost a total of 3,072 lives and US$16 billion to the 2010-2012 floods. An initial estimate made by the National Disaster
Management Authority of the floods’ impact shows agriculture sector losses at US$2 billion due to damages to 1.05 million
acres of standing crops.
Consecutive years of flooding have also pushed up the country’s inflation and unemployment rate because the flooding
has disrupted supply chains, damaged major crops like sugarcane, rice and cotton, and hampered industrial production
(Government of Pakistan, 2012).

BOX

3.3

Investing in water: A wise policy option that’s good for business
Analysis of Africa’s irrigation needs demonstrates an attractive internal rate of return, ranging from 12% in central Africa for
large-scale irrigation to 33% for small-scale irrigation in the Sahel. The average economic rates of return for both water supply
and irrigation projects compare well with those in infrastructure investments in other sectors, according to Foster and BriceñoGarmendia (2010), who present this table showing economic rates of return for infrastructure projects in sub-Saharan
Africa (percentages):
Railway
rehabilitation

Irrigation

Road
rehabilitation

Road
upgrades

Road
maintenance

Power
generation

Water
supply

5.1

22.2

24.2

17

138.8

18.9

23.3

Source: Table extracted from Foster and Briceño-Garmendia (2010, Table 2.5, p. 71), © World Bank. https://openknowledge.worldbank.org/
handle/10986/2692 License: CC BY 3.0 IGO.

24

Chapter 3

WATER AND THE THREE DIMENSIONS OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT

Dhay, the first recipient of an urban micro credit scheme (PPAF) for women in Pakistan
Photo: Caroline Suzman/World Bank

contributes overall, but water challenges are context-specific.
Some countries may give priority to investments in infrastructure
for hydropower and irrigation for economic growth. However,
poor attention to water availability and protection of critical
water sources may mean that these investments perform

BOX

3.4

below expectations. In other cases, technologies and financial
resources to invest in water infrastructure might be available
while the institutional capability is lacking, leading to poor or
non-existent service provision. In other instances, the social
benefits of water infrastructure might be self-evident, but the

Still many opportunities to do more with less
Agriculture, which accounts for 70% of global freshwater withdrawals, offers some of the best opportunities to take advantage
of enhanced water efficiency to improve productivity and reduce poverty.
“On-farm water balance analysis indicates that, in savannah farming systems in sub-Saharan Africa, less than 30% of rainfall
is used as productive transpiration by crops. Thus, crop failures commonly blamed on ‘drought’ might be prevented in many
cases through better farm-level water management (Rockström et al., 2010)”.
In sub-Saharan Africa, agricultural productivity can improve with little impact on water resources (FAO, 2012a) through
a combination of sound agricultural practices and links to inputs, credit and markets combined with weather insurance
schemes. These measures are ways of producing more with less. They offer outstanding opportunities to reconcile economic
growth with the recovery and adequate protection of water resources (Quick and Winpenny, 2014).
More radical improvements in ‘crop per drop’ can be realized by the adoption of aerobic rice production in place of paddy field
rice and the use of System of Rice Intensification cultivation and other agro-ecological methods not only for rice but also for
other crops (Africare, Oxfam America and WWF-ICRISAT, 2010).

WWDR 2015

Economic development

25

potential beneficiaries of these services might not have the
ability to pay for their provision, or policymakers may not be
willing to charge for them.

Scarcity of capital, in some contexts, forces reliance on low
capital cost. On the other hand, high running cost solutions
might make water unaffordable for the poor.

Water management can be highly capital intensive. Capital
intensity results in economies of scale and low running costs.
Many countries face very practical problems with the lack of
availability of capital and the cost of capital. That availability
is in turn dependent upon the ability to recover that capital.

3.4 Economic opportunities from
improved water efficiency

BOX

3.5

Water challenges and water development priorities
change over time. The outstanding benefits of water as
a means to pave the way out of poverty suggest placing

Trade-offs in water and production
To avoid solving one problem by worsening another, it is essential to understand how different areas of the economy are
linked through water.
In spite of outstanding advances in water provision in the last decades, over 80% of wastewater worldwide (and 90% or more in
developing countries) is not collected or treated, and urban settlements are the main source of pollution (WWAP, 2012). Effluent from
industry is causing pollution to downstream surface-waters and aquifers and major health threats to people (Bahri, 2009). Small-scale
industries, such as agro-processors, textile dyeing and tanneries, can release toxic pollutants into local waters (WWAP, 2012).
Land use change from urban and rural development can exacerbate soil erosion, reduce soil water-holding capacity,
and decrease the recharge of groundwater and existing surface-water storage capacity. It does so through siltation and
sedimentation of rivers and reservoirs that subsequently results in water scarcity over time. Land use change may involve the
loss of wetlands, yet the importance of wetlands in regulating flood and drought risk is well understood (WWAP, 2012).
There is also a link between deforestation and increasing flood risk, which has been observed at the micro level and over
particular catchments. Deforestation results in degradation and desertification of watersheds and catchment areas, and
reduces the amount of usable safe water available downstream (FAO, 2007).
Water development might come along with other costs, too. It may increase the exposure of economic assets to drought
events and may lower reserves in rivers and aquifers to compensate for rainfall deficits. This exposure has been recognized in
recent reports in the United States, where drought in 2012 had an impact on 80% of farms and ranches, resulting in crop losses
in excess of US$20 billion and a wide range of ripple effects. According to the National Drought Forum (2012), “Corn crops
were greatly reduced due to a lack of rainfall, affecting food and livestock feed supplies and prices, as well as corn ethanol
production. Power plants had to scale back operations or even shut down because the water temperatures of many rivers,
lakes and estuaries had increased to the point where they could not be used for cooling. Household, municipal and farm wells
in the Midwest had to be extended deeper into aquifers to make up for the lack of rainfall, draining groundwater supplies and
demanding more electricity to run the pumps.” The full costs are estimated to be as high as US$50 billion.

BOX

3.6

Investing in protecting water resources
Measures of improved water resource management have shown considerable economic gains. A US$15 to US$30 billion
investment in improved water resources management in developing countries can have direct annual income returns in the
range of US$60 billion. Every US$1 invested in watershed protection can save anywhere from US$7.5 to nearly US$200 in costs
for new water treatment and filtration facility (SIWI, 2005).
A global economic assessment of 63 million hectares of wetlands estimated their value at US$3.4 billion per year (Brander and
Schuyt, 2010).
In eastern Uganda, more than one-third of the District of Pallisa is occupied by wetlands. The annual value of their goods and
services has been estimated to be US$34 million for the local economy, which is equivalent to US$500 per hectare (Emerton
and Bos, 2004).

26

Chapter 3

WATER AND THE THREE DIMENSIONS OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT

an emphasis on infrastructure to unlock the economic
growth potential of water in the early stages of a country’s
economic development. Once the marginal benefits of
further development decrease, emphasis must gradually
shift towards building human and institutional capabilities
to enhance water efficiency and sustainability and secure
economic and social development gains. Many benefits
may be gained through promotion and application of best
available technologies, management systems in water
provision, use and allocation (Box 3.4).

and in isolation from each other can lead to water scarcity,
unsustainable use of resources, and conflicts between users
and local communities. For example, energy options such as
biofuels and hydraulic fracturing, and agricultural options
such as crop choice or irrigation, impact directly on water
scarcity and/or water pollution. This is one reason that an
integrated approach to managing water resources has been
adopted by the United Nations and governments in many
countries. That approach will need to be extended (Box 3.5).

3.6 Protecting water resources
Fortunately, wider adoption of best practices offers substantial
efficiency gains, particularly in industry where greater
efficiency in water use often results in increased profitability.
This emphasizes the need to increase learning as well as
improve the rate of adoption and diffusion of appropriate
technologies. Capacity for rapid learning and innovation is
now a key requirement for water management organizations.

3.5 Intersectoral trade-offs
Water is an essential input to production activities, and
availability must be taken into account by decisionmakers in sectors such as energy and industry; if not, their
investments (by both private and public sector) will be
put at risk. Projects in hydropower, irrigation, energy or
urban development that are carried out simultaneously

WWDR 2015

Water investments are crucial in emergent economies to
ensure abundant and affordable water supplies to the
economic system. There is a need, however, to increasingly
shift the focus of such investments towards changing the
way in which water, and the environment more generally,
are valued, managed and used. Water investments can
help to reconcile the continuous increase in water use with
the need to preserve the critical environmental assets on
which the provision of water and the economy depend. Any
possibility of sustaining the gains of economic progress relies
on investing in the protection of water-related ecosystems
(see Chapter 4) for maintaining the essential and varied
environmental services they provide, and upon which the
economy depends (Box 3.6).

Economic development

27

4

Ecosystems
UNEP | Thomas Chiramba, Eric Hoa, Annie Von Burg (UNEP), Rob Sinclair, Salim Kombo (Nottawasaga Institute)
Contributions from: Peter Koefoed Bjørnsen, Maija Bertule (UNEP DHI), Isabelle Fauconnier (IUCN) and Glenn Benoy (International Joint Commission)

4.1 Context
Aquatic ecosystems are at the centre of all life and all
forms of development. However, while economic and
population growth are set to increase strain on existing
water resources, most economic models are yet to value
the essential services provided by freshwater ecosystems,
a mistake that often leads to unsustainable use of water
resources and degradation of aquatic ecosystems. There is a
need to shift towards environmentally sustainable economic
policies where ecosystem-based management (EBM) takes
into consideration the interconnection of ecological systems
to address human impacts and meet the needs for healthy
productive ecosystems. EBM needs to be part of the solution
to ensure a ‘green economy’2 and sustainable development.

2	UNEP has developed a working definition of a green economy as one that
results in improved human well-being and social equity, while significantly
reducing environmental risks and ecological scarcities. In its simplest
expression, a green economy can be thought of as one which is low
carbon, resource efficient and socially inclusive.

BOX

4.1

Healthy ecosystems are required for continuous supply of water
and other services vital for human well-being and development.
According to the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment (MEA,
2005b), ecosystem services comprise four main categories:
•
•
•
•

provisioning (e.g. clean water);
regulating (e.g. flow regulation and flood control);
cultural (e.g. recreation); and
supporting (e.g. habitat for aquatic species).

Different ecosystems provide different services. Wetlands, for
instance, attenuate floods, store water and provide other
direct economic benefits such as fisheries and tourism. As
Box 4.1 illustrates, a healthy ecosystem provides key services
to maintain environmental, economic and social well-being.
Another example is forested highlands, which have a key
role in recharging aquifers and ensuring clean water flows
for agriculture, hydropower and other uses. They are also
critical for conserving biological diversity, water and soil, and
providing major habitats for wildlife. (see also Box 6.2).

Reconnecting lakes in the Central Yangtze River Basin
In the last 50 years, Hubei Province’s wetland ecosystem, with its 1,066 lakes, has played a major role in summer flood
attenuation along the Yangtze River basin, home to 400 million people. However, 757 of the lakes were converted to polders
and disconnected from each other, which resulted in massive flood damage from 1991 to 1998 causing hundreds of deaths,
costing billions of dollars, and resulting in pollution from aquaculture fertilizer.
In 2002, a WWF sustainable lake programme demonstrated a good example of the role of natural infrastructure by reestablishing the natural flood protection provided by the river basin. Sluice gates were seasonally opened around three lakes
(Hong, Tian-e-Zhou and Zhangdu) and illegal, uneconomic aquaculture facilities and other infrastructure were removed,
reducing pollution.
This resulted in an increase in fish and wildlife and return of species. Before the programme, Lake Hong supported only 100
herons and egrets; since its restoration, 45,000 wintering water birds and 20,000 breeding birds are now found. To strengthen the
effectiveness of wetland conservation efforts, a Nature Reserve Network was established linking 17 reserves. In 2006, the Hubei
provincial government adopted a wetlands conservation master plan and allocated resources to protect 4,500 km2 by 2010.
The local population benefited from cleaner water supplies and a 17% increase in fish catches within six months of
reconnection of Lake Zhangdu. The development of certified eco-fish farming adopted by 412 households increased income
of fisheries dependent households by 20% to 30%.
Sources: WWF (2008); Pittock and Xu (2011); ICPDR (1999) and Scholz et al. (2012).

28

Chapter 4

WATER AND THE THREE DIMENSIONS OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT

Tourism and ecosystems conservation, Napo Wildlife Center, Yasuni National Park (Ecuador)
Photo: Peter Prokosch, http://grida.no/photolib/detail/napo-wildlife-center-yasuni-national-park-ecuador_d911

4.1.1 Ecosystem-based management
Ecosystem-based management is described by the United
Nations Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) as a
“strategy for the integrated management of land, water and
living resources that promotes conservation and sustainable
use in an equitable way” (CBD, 2014). The interconnected
network of ecosystems can be seen in the quantity of water
required to maintain water-related ecosystem services, and
the ecosystems that serve to maintain this quantity, such as
wetlands and forests (WWAP, 2012). Such ecosystem interrelationship is often referred to as ‘natural infrastructure’
(NI). It is nature’s equivalent to human-built infrastructure,
providing for the maintenance of healthy ecosystems, and
many of the same services.
Natural infrastructure uses the natural environment and
natural processes to create healthier environments and
may present economic benefits, since the destruction of NI
requires investment in built infrastructure to perform some
of the same services. EBM demonstrates that opportunities
can be missed when the interlinkages between ecosystems
and their collective provision of services are not taken into
account.
Ecosystem services remain under-valued, under-recognized
and under-utilized within economic and resource
management approaches. The MDG framework did not

WWDR 2015

fully recognize water’s interlinkages with other areas, and
an emphasis on ‘sustainability’ was not included (UN-Water,
2014).
A more holistic focus on ecosystems for water and
development can ensure that benefits are maintained. As
noted in the UN-Water (2014) report on a global goal for
water, the difficulty of balancing water supply between
multiple users and uses will become worse, unless attention
is paid to the sustainable use and development of water
resources and the ecosystems that provide them. The
EBM approach addresses these shortfalls. Incorporating
ecosystem-based thinking into water management will play
important roles in addressing the proposed target areas
for the post-2015 Sustainable Development Goals, which
include WASH, water quality, water efficiency, integrated
water resources management and water-related ecosystems.

4.2 Challenges
Ecosystems across the world, particularly wetlands, are in
decline in terms of the services they provide. Increasing
population and economic growth are accelerating strain on
the natural world. Direct drivers of ecosystem degradation
include infrastructure development, land conversion, water
withdrawal, eutrophication and pollution, overharvesting
and overexploitation, and the introduction of invasive alien
species (MEA, 2005b).

Ecosystems

29

4.2.1 Environmental challenges
The WWF Living Planet Index 2012 shows a 30% decline
in biodiversity health since 1970 (WWF, 2012). Poor
water management approaches can be a driver of this
decline, for example, through poorly designed or operated
dams disrupting water flows or degradation of soil water
retention. Pollution from untreated residential and industrial

Ecosystems across the world,
particularly wetlands, are in
decline in terms of the services
they provide
wastewater and agricultural run-off also weakens ecosystem
capacity to provide services such as water.
Climate change also has a significant impact on ecosystems.
The effect on wetlands and their multiple ecosystem services
is expected to be severe. Rising sea levels will threaten
biodiversity, while increased frequency and strength of
storms and tidal surges will increase damage and variation
of sediment transfer in river flows (Boelee, 2011).
While these environmental challenges steadily degrade the
health of ecosystems and thus the quality of their services,
short-term economic and social decisions further threaten
sustainability. Over-exploiting forests for timber or firewood,
for example, compromises ecosystem health, including its
capacity to regulate the level of the water table.
4.2.2 Social challenges
Degraded ecosystems strain the most vulnerable populations,
particularly the poorest, leading to food and water insecurity.
As populations increase and ecosystem services decline, the
risk of resource conflicts rises especially where tensions
already exist along ethnic or socio-economic lines. According
to UN peacekeepers, since 1990, at least 18 violent conflicts
have been fuelled by the exploitation of natural resources,
whether ‘high-value’ resources like timber, diamonds, gold,
minerals and oil, or scarce ones like fertile land and water
(UNEP, 2009). Ecosystem degradation and climate change
have significant potential to increase these tensions.
4.2.3 Economic challenges
While economic development may lead to ecosystem decline,
ecosystem services underpin economic development, so
the real challenge is in building awareness of the economic
value of healthy ecosystems.

30

Chapter 4

In some cases, human-built infrastructure can cause
biodiversity loss and degradation of ecosystem services, yet
it often directly depends on ecosystem services to maintain
performance. Dams, for example, are constructed to
ensure water availability, flood protection, hydropower and
other services. However, dams can prevent nutrients and
sediments from reaching oceans and alter the water cycle
by increasing water ‘residence time’, altering the flow of
matter and energy in rivers which changes the conditions
of these ecosystems entirely (Vörösmarty et al., 2010). This
can have a direct and negative impact on other sectors
such as downstream fisheries and agriculture. At the
same time, dams only work effectively when supported by
healthy ecosystems. Unhealthy ecosystems cause dams to
become clogged by siltation, damaged by flood waters or
degraded with pollution. Dams also need proper watershed
management. The challenge, therefore, is to manage water
resources to maintain a beneficial mix between built and
natural infrastructure and provision of their respective
services.
Current food production practices are likewise responsible
for nitrogen, phosphorous and pesticide loading and
fisheries depletion (Vörösmarty et al., 2010). It is estimated
that between US$4.3 and US$20.2 trillion per year worth of
ecosystem services were lost between 1997 and 2011 due
to land use change (Costanza et al., 2014).
Water is a key resource for industrial and manufacturing
processes (e.g. heating, cooling, cleaning, rinsing, etc.),
but generated wastewater can cause environmental
damage when discharged untreated. The industrial and
manufacturing sector has a corporate social responsibility to
take action to ensure acceptable quality of discharged water
and cover the costs related to any corrective clean-up action.
At the same time, manufacturing processes can also benefit
from cleaner water influent by saving costs on treating
potential impurities (Corcoran et al., 2010).
4.2.4 Management challenges
Current water management practices are often fragmented,
leading to lost synergies, poor trade-offs and sub-optimal
solutions. This phenomenon pervades across sectors such as
health, leaving missed opportunities for broader strategies
(Boelee, 2011). It fails to capitalize on synergies in basinwide and cross-sectoral approaches to water management
to protect ecosystem services, such as the flow of water
needed to maintain biodiversity.
Poor water management (especially wastewater
management) leads to the degradation of ecosystems
through pollution and contamination, resulting in social

WATER AND THE THREE DIMENSIONS OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT

and economic costs: it is more expensive to rehabilitate
an ecosystem than to preserve it. In short, there is a basic
failure to recognize the economic and social value of healthy
ecosystems.
The water management sphere is beset by a lack of
ecosystem knowledge among decision-makers, and
lack of resources and technical know-how to empower
communities to take the lead in EBM. Lack of resources,
skills and capacity affects related approaches such as
watershed management or other conservation programmes.
Management practices have emphasized water quantity
requirements for human and environmental needs at the
expense of water quality. Moreover, they prioritize human
uses over environmental needs and fail to recognize the
symbiotic relationship between the two.

4.3 Responses
Responses that mitigate, reverse and, most of all, prevent
ecosystem degradation are required to address threats to
ecosystems. The nature of these responses has implications
for the quality and quantity of water supply, especially
since restored ecosystems do not always perform the same
range of ecosystem services as the original sites (Boelee,
2011). The adoption of EBM is essential to ensure water
sustainability.
4.3.1 Ecosystems valuation
Using economic arguments for preserving ecosystems
can make them relevant to decision-makers and planners.
An economic perspective is also important in assessing

BOX

4.2

trade-offs in the conservation of ecosystems and can be
used to better inform development plans (Farber et al.,
2002).
Ecosystem valuation can be broadly described as what
users would be willing to pay directly for the services, or
what it would cost to replace the same services with built
infrastructure (Boelee, 2011). Such valuations can be
incorporated into national income accounts, or used to
clarify comparative options in land use planning, payment

Ecosystem valuation has
demonstrated that benefits far exceed
costs of water-related investments in
ecosystem conservation
for ecosystem services (PES) and common asset trusts
(Costanza et al., 2014). Valuations help in building the case
for a green economy in the post-2015 development agenda.
Ecosystem valuation has demonstrated that benefits far
exceed costs of water-related investments in ecosystem
conservation. According to the study ‘Changes in the Global
Value of Ecosystem Services’, the 2011 economic value
of ecosystems has been globally estimated at US$124.8
trillion. Global GDP was estimated at US$75.2 trillion in the
same year (Costanza et al., 2014). Box 4.2 illustrates the
application of this approach at the micro-level.

Wastewater treatment in the Fynbos Ecosystem, South Africa
The Fynbos Ecosystem of Western Cape, South Africa, contains numerous wetlands whose function and value until recently
were unknown. Many of these wetlands have been degraded or lost due to farming practices and other land use changes.
Both wetlands and land use play a role in determining water quality emanating from sub-catchments in the biome.
Water-quality amelioration by wetlands benefits both ecology and humans downstream. For example, preventing
contamination protects downstream fisheries from pollutants and reduces the impact on human health, such as from
extensive growth of algae or aquatic macrophytes due to nutrient loading.
The economic benefits of the water treatment capacity of wetlands in the Fynbos Biome were estimated “on the basis of the
cost of performing the same service, i.e. removal of nitrogen, with man-made water treatment plants. The study calculated the
value of the wetlands’ service as US$12,385 per hectare per year, high enough to compete with alternative land uses.”
Highlighting the economic value of critical wetlands builds a case for investing in natural infrastructure. While policy changes
have not directly been impacted by this study, an increased number of these studies globally show growing demand for
improved understanding of the value of nature.
Source: Turpie (2010).

WWDR 2015

Ecosystems

31

BOX

4.3

Transboundary collaboration for healthy ecosystems and community engagement
The International Joint Commission (IJC) was established by the Boundary Waters Treaty of 1909 between the USA and Canada
and serves to resolve and prevent transboundary water disputes between the two countries.
The Commission adopted the Lake Erie Ecosystem Priority (LEEP) for 2012-2015. In August 2013 it released a collaborative
report between scientists of both countries entitled ‘Lake Erie Ecosystem Priority: Scientific Findings and Policy
Recommendations to Reduce Nutrient Loadings and Harmful Algal Blooms’. The study focused on lake-wide changes resulting
from phosphorus enrichment, climate change and invasive species.
The report contained policy proposals to reduce phosphorus inputs to the lake, for implementation by federal, state and
provincial governments, including setting phosphorus load targets 40% below average loads of the past five years.
The report was then opened up to the public for comment through the internet and open house events held in Michigan,
Ohio and Ontario and a scientific panel discussion at the Great Lakes Week held in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Public engagement
helped in shaping the outcomes of the report.
Source: IJC (2013).

4.3.2 Natural infrastructure solutions
In order to effectively address the myriad environmental
challenges, water managers need to recognize and
incorporate NI into their planning and implementation
activities (Dini, 2013). For example, the creation of ‘green
corridors’ along rivers, floodplains and streams can link
ecosystems, thus absorbing nutrients and reducing water
pollution.
Conservation programmes are often reactive and fail to fully
consider the interconnected nature of ecosystem processes
for sustainability. The NI perspective places emphasis on
connectivity (EPA, 2014), creating a sustainability framework
for environmental decisions. NI solutions should be seen
as cost-effective, long-term infrastructure solutions that
utilize water-related ecosystem services to augment, replace
and/or strengthen performance of built infrastructure to
provide a wide array of benefits that support livelihoods.
It has higher capacity to adapt to climate change impacts.
Hence investments yield benefits across a number of policy
areas, as illustrated in Table 4.1. For example, in the table,
the rows which refer to “Water purification and biological
control”, “Reconnecting rivers to floodplains” and “Wetland
restoration/conservation” are shown as NI alternatives
for “Water treatment plant”, as illustrated in the Yangtze
example in Box 4.1.
4.3.3 Policy responses
The major decisions in EBM over the next decades must
address trade-offs between “agricultural production and
water quality, land use and biodiversity, water use and
aquatic biodiversity” (MEA, 2005c).

32

Chapter 4

The emphasis on access to water and sanitation in the MDGs
has focused policy priorities on urgent human needs, but
addressing broader sustainability issues that underpin access
to water resources must move to the forefront. The post2015 development agenda focuses on higher attention to
ecosystems, water quality and disaster management and
needs to be supported by further evidence of the necessity
of an integrated ecosystem-based management of water
resources.
Coordination and collaboration between natural resource
managers and sectors such as health, agriculture and
industry are needed to foster synergy and integrate
responses to environmental, economic and social challenges
and eliminate compartmentalization. Collaboration is vital
for policy formulation and compliance and for stakeholder
engagement in planning and monitoring, as in the example
in Box 4.3. Policies should provide incentives and reduce
operational bottlenecks for the implementation of EBM
tools, such as PES, in combination with Reducing Emissions
from Deforestation and Forest Degradation (REDD), and
landscape planning, among others.
Coordination among international environmental bodies
can reduce compartmentalization and create a conducive
framework for enforcement. The Ramsar Convention,
for instance, is already working with the World Heritage
Convention, Convention on the Conservation of Migratory
Species of Wild Animals and the CBD in developing ‘wise
use’ concepts for an integrated approach to wetland
conservation (Boelee, 2011).

WATER AND THE THREE DIMENSIONS OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT

Policies should seek to increase participation of all
stakeholders (local, regional and national) including
rural women in developing countries, who already act
as grassroots ecosystem managers. Involving them
more substantively in decision-making would benefit all,
integrate indigenous knowledge in the process and help

Sustainable wastewater treatment is also key to maintaining
sustainable ecosystem services, particularly water provision
and purification. Protected areas can be utilized to preserve

Overview of natural infrastructure solutions for water resources management

Table

Coastal

Urban

Location

Natural infrastructure
solution
Watershed

Water management issue
(Primary service to be provide)

Floodplain

4.1

capitalize on the increasing global concern for international
environmental issues.

Corresponding
built infrastructure
solution
(at the primary
service level)

Re/afforestation and forest conservation
Reconnecting rivers to floodplains
Water supply regulation
(including drought mitigation)	

Wetland restoration/conservation
Constructing wetlands
Water harvesting*
Green spaces (bio-retention & infiltration)

Dams and
groundwater
pumping
Water distribution
systems

Permeable pavements*
Water quality
regulation

Water purification
and biological
control

Re/afforestation and forest conservation
Riparian buffers
Reconnecting rivers to floodplains
Wetland restoration/conservation

Water
treatment
plant

Constructing wetland
Green spaces (bio-retention & infiltration)
Erosion control

Re/afforestation and forest conservation
Riparian buffers

Reinforcement
of slopes

Reconnecting rivers to floodplains
Moderation
of extreme
events
(floods)

Riverine flood
control

Re/afforestation and forest conservation
Riparian buffers
Reconnecting rivers to floodplains
Wetland restoration/conservation

Dams and
levees

Constructing wetland
Establishing flood bypasses
Coastal flood
(storm) control

Protecting/restoring mangroves, coastal
marshes and dunes

Sea walls

Protecting/restoring reefs (coral/oyster)
* Built elements that interact with natural features to enhance water-related ecosystem services.		
Source: Extracted from UNEP/UNEP-DHI/IUCN/TNC (2014, Table 1, p. 6).

WWDR 2015

Ecosystems

33

specific ecosystems that provide services vital to the
health of much larger landscapes that may shelter specific
endangered species. This requires collaboration with local
populations and balancing trade-offs between conservation
and economic activities.
The drivers of ecosystem and biodiversity degradation must
be addressed through policies with actionable goals:
• E limination of perverse subsidies that deplete ecosystem
services and the reallocation of funds towards their
preservation;
• Promotion of water efficiency technologies and increased
water productivity in agriculture;

34

Chapter 4

• R
 eduction of nutrient loading through wiser fertilizer use;
• Improved mitigation of destructive environmental impacts
in extractive industries;
• C
 orrection of market failures that cause environmental
degradation; and
• G
 reater involvement and capacity building of stakeholders
and greater accountability and transparency in decisionmaking regarding ecosystem conservation (Boelee, 2011).
Ecosystem-based management must be adaptive and
incremental, beginning with a specific objective focused on
a few issues; later, these issues can be increased in number
and scope.

WATER AND THE THREE DIMENSIONS OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT

PART 2
ADDRESSING CRITICAL
DEVELOPMENTAL CHALLENGES
Chapters
5. Water, sanitation and hygiene – 6. Urbanization
7. Food and agriculture – 8. Energy – 9. Industry
10. Adapting to climate variability and change

Uzbek women, Khiva (Uzbekistan)
Photo: Global Water Partnership

The interlinkages between water and sustainable development reach far beyond its social, economic
and environmental dimensions. Water plays a vital role in various aspects and challenges related to
sustainable development, including human health, food and energy security, urbanization, industrial
growth and climate change. Part 2 of this Report defines critical ‘challenge areas’ where policies and
actions at the core of sustainable development can be strengthened or weakened through water.
Chapter 5 reflects on the role of water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) in achieving sustainable
development and outlines key challenges to achieving sustained universal coverage. Chapter 6 covers
the challenges associated with rapid urbanization, describing how cities provide opportunities for
more sustainable use of water. Chapter 7 focuses on what is required to achieve a world free from
hunger and malnutrition in a sustainable manner. Chapter 8 addresses the challenges of meeting
rising energy demands without compromising the sustainability of freshwater resources. Chapter
9 examines water’s role in the pursuit of sustainable industrial development. Finally, Chapter 10
describes how sustainable freshwater resources management is affected by climate variability and
change.

36

Addressing critical developmental challenges

Water, sanitation and hygiene
UNICEF and WHO | Robert Bain, Richard Johnston,* Cecilia Scharp, Rifat Hossain,* Bruce Gordon* and Sanjay Wijesekera

5

This chapter reflects on the role of water, sanitation and
hygiene (WASH) in achieving sustainable development, and
outlines key challenges that need to be addressed in order
to achieve and sustain universal coverage.

implications of inadequate WASH – for education, cognitive
development and nutrition – are not fully documented, and
inadequate WASH is one of many deprivations suffered by
the world’s poorest and most marginalized populations.

WASH is fundamentally important to lives and livelihoods,
and underpins poverty alleviation and sustainable
development (Figure 5.1). At a basic level, everyone needs
access to safe water in adequate quantities for drinking,
cooking and personal hygiene, and sanitation facilities that
do not compromise health or dignity. Lack of WASH takes
a huge toll on health and well-being and comes at a large
financial cost, including a sizeable loss of economic activity
in many countries, not just least developed countries. While
the impacts are most pronounced in lower income countries,
challenges remain in wealthier nations where concerns
regarding water safety and environmental sustainability
persist alongside inequalities. Many of the broader

Access to water and sanitation is recognized as a human
right and has long been a central aim of international
development policies and targets (UNCESCR, 2003; UNGA,
2010). The MDGs sought to “halve the proportion of the
population without access to safe drinking water and basic
sanitation” between 1990 and 2015 (UNGA, 2001). The

Figure

5.1

*	The author is a staff member of the World Health Organization. The author
alone is responsible for the views expressed in this publication and they
do not necessarily represent the views, decisions or policies of the World
Health Organization. Nothing contained herein shall be construed as a
waiver of any of the privileges and immunities enjoyed by WHO under
national or international law, and/or as submitting WHO to any national
court jurisdiction.

Schematic of criteria for sustainable water, sanitation and hygiene services and their key impacts
on sustainable development

Sustainable Development
Economy

Environment

Equity

Direct
• Reduced burden of collecting
water when on premises
• Lower medical expenses
• Affordability including for the poor

Direct
• Reduced water wastage and
avoiding overexploitation
• Adequate treatment of excreta
and wastewater to protect the
natural environment

Direct
• D
 isease prevention
• D
 ignity
• S chool attendance, especially for
adolescent girls

Indirect
• Educated and healthy workforce
• Industry and commerce

Indirect
• Sustainable environmental
services

Indirect
• F ull participation in society
• R
 educed poverty
• G
 ender equality

Underpinning Human Rights WASH criteria:
Normative: Availability, safety, acceptability, accessibility and affordability
Cross-cutting: Non-discrimination, participation, accountability, impact and sustainability
Source: Authors and UNGA (2010).

WWDR 2015

Water, sanitation and hygiene

37

Hand washing with soap is one of the important elements
of hygiene in WASH, although it did not form part of MDG
monitoring. Globally, the prevalence of hand washing with
soap is very low with some estimates suggesting four out
of five people do not wash their hands after contact with
excreta (Freeman et al., 2014). Moreover, many challenges
remain in addressing concerns about the adequacy of WASH
services and ensuring their sustainability (Box 5.1).

5.1 Return on WASH investments
Investments in water and sanitation services result in
substantial economic gains. In developing regions, the
return on investment has been estimated at US$5 to US$28
per dollar invested (WHO, 2012b). Overall, US$53 billion
a year over a five-year period would be needed to achieve
universal coverage (Hutton, 2013) – a small sum given this
represented less than 0.1% of global world product in 2010
and since the return on investment is many times higher.
Despite the potential for sizeable returns on investment,
sustainable financing has not yet been attained in many
settings, raising questions about who should pay and
what the barriers to investment are. In many cases, capital
investments are made without adequate financial planning

BOX

5.1

38

or investment in maintenance, operations and monitoring
(AMCOW, 2011; WaterAid India, 2008; Barnard et al., 2013).
This leads to poor levels of service (e.g. quality, reliability,
acceptability), lower usage and, in some cases, permanent
failure. Such unsustainable financing not only reduces the
benefits but also wastes available capital, resulting in lower
coverage per dollar spent.
From the user’s perspective, the affordability of WASH
services is of utmost importance and may influence
access, especially for the poor. The financing of water
and sanitation, including the proportion contributed by
households, varies greatly (WHO, 2014) as does willingness
to pay for water and sanitation services. Data on household
contributions are few and generally available at the national
level, preventing assessments of affordability for the poorest.
In most countries, regressive cost structures predominate
whereby low volume consumers pay a premium on a
per volume basis. There are some notable exceptions, such
as South Africa (Box 5.2), where a basic level of service is
free to the end user.
In order to reap the full benefits of these services, greater
emphasis is needed on ensuring that services last. In many
settings, services are not living up to their potential, with
intermittency a daily problem for piped supplies even in

5.2
BOX

WHO and UNICEF Joint Monitoring Programme for Water
Supply and Sanitation (JMP) reports impressive gains made
over the last two decades with 2.3 billion people gaining
access to an improved drinking water source and 1.9 billion
to an improved sanitation facility (WHO and UNICEF, 2014a).
Of those gaining access to drinking water, 1.6 billion
now use a higher level of service: a piped water supply
on premises. However, much still needs to be done – 748
million do not use an improved source of drinking water
and 2.5 billion do not use an improved sanitation facility.
Moreover, not all of those using improved facilities have
fulfilled their rights; for example, an estimated 1.8 billion
people drink water contaminated with Escherichia coli, an
indicator of faecal contamination (Bain et al., 2014).

A focus on providing for the poorest leads
to more equitable WASH outcomes in South
Africa
"With the ending of apartheid the Government of
South Africa prioritized the provision of basic services
including, water supply, sanitation and energy services.
Ambitious targets were set within a policy framework
that included ‘free basic water’ and ‘free basic sanitation’
for households with resources below the social grant
amount (approximately US$1 per day). In 2012, 3.47
million and 1.84 million people benefitted from free
services for water and sanitation respectively."

•	 Persistently non-functioning community supplies
•	 Failure to treat wastewater or safely handle excreta
•	 Leakage and intermittency of utility piped water
•	Increasing water scarcity and low priority given to
domestic water use
•	Inadequate investment in maintenance and
operations

"Resources were provided to decentralized
organizations charged with providing basic WASH
services. Strong monitoring frameworks were put in
place to track progress against the targets. Although
the time frame for reaching the targets of universal
coverage have not been met, major gains in access
have been achieved, especially for the poor and those
living in rural areas. There remains, however, a major
challenge in attracting and retaining professional staff
to manage, operate and maintain WASH infrastructure."

Source: UNGA (2013).

Source: WHO (2014, p. 4).

Examples of unsustainable WASH

Chapter 5

Addressing critical developmental challenges

major cities, and functionality of community sources and
hygienic sanitation facilities not always assured. The problem
of non-functioning supplies and unused sanitation facilities
is symptomatic of unsustainable or misdirected financing
and a mismatch between supply and demand. This points
to the need for greater accountability, enhanced monitoring
as well as adequate financing for continued operations
and maintenance. This is not restricted to lower income
countries. The investment ‘deficit’ for ageing infrastructure
in the United States has been estimated at US$84 billion by
2020 (ASCE, 2011). Water services should also be located
close to or ideally within the home in order to ensure that
time can be used more productively since opportunity
costs are an important contributor to the overall return on
investment (WHO, 2012b) and to support good hygiene.

the risk of contamination due, in part, to more frequent and
intense flooding (WHO/DFID, 2009).
Pollution of the environment in other spheres can also
influence the ability to provide adequate quantities of highquality drinking water or the costs and energy required to
do so. Ensuring water safety requires a focus on source
protection, rational use of fertilizer and pesticides, and
reducing industrial pollution as integral elements of
comprehensive water safety planning.

In many lower-income countries
bottled water is a privilege of
the wealthy who may resort to
it due to lack of trust in the
safety of municipal supplies,
exacerbating inequalities

5.2 Environmental implications
The quantities of water required for domestic uses, and
especially ingestion, are generally very small compared
to those for agriculture and industry: 20 litres per person
per day for drinking and personal hygiene is considered to
be ‘basic’ access (WHO, 2011). Domestic water accounts
for at most 11% of freshwater withdrawals (FAO, 2011a).
Yet the availability of water and sanitation services is
intimately linked to the wider policies and practices in
water management. Unregulated abstraction can influence
local availability of water and its quality with negative
repercussions for water services. Changing climate is also
expected to influence water resource availability, putting
more pressure on already stretched resources and increasing

Strong growth of bottled and sachet water as a main drinking water source in urban settings,
2000-2012

Proportion of the urban population (%)

Figure

5.2

As societies develop, their water usage patterns change.
Global trends in the use of different water sources
demonstrate a shift towards piped water on premises,
especially in urban areas. Use of piped water can be highly
beneficial for societal well-being; however, it also generates
a tendency to raise the quantity of water used per capita,
increasing stress on local water resources and wastewater

60
54

50

51

40

40

30

31

29

20

23

20

20

15

10

0

37

11
1

Lao People’s
Democratic Republic
2000

2005

Indonesia

7
0

Philippines

0

Ghana

Turkey

2010

Source: Authors’ analysis based on data compiled by the WHO and UNICEF Joint Monitoring Programme for Water Supply and Sanitation (JMP).

WWDR 2015

Water, sanitation and hygiene

39

treatment facilities. In addition, household surveys show a
marked increase in the use of packaged waters – bottles and
sachets – in several countries (Figure 5.2). Although globally
this is a small proportion of people, with an estimated
6% of people primarily relying on bottled water in 2010
(WHO and UNICEF, 2012), there are concerns about the
environmental sustainability of packaging water (especially
the plastic waste) and affordability of this trend. In many
lower-income countries, bottled water is a privilege of the
wealthy who may resort to it due to lack of trust in the
safety of municipal supplies.
Lack of sanitation and poor management of excreta has a
detrimental impact on the environment. In many countries,
the demand for sewer-connected sanitation coverage has
meant increases in connections without due attention to
treatment and disposal of wastewater. Although data are
few, estimates suggest that even in upper-middle income
countries wastewater from 75% of households with sewer
connections may not receive adequate treatment (Baum
et al., 2013).The impact of releasing untreated human
excreta to the environment is substantial, with negative
impacts on rivers, lakes and coastal waters. Furthermore, the
WHO and UNICEF JMP finds that one billion people do not
use a sanitation facility and instead defecate in the open
(WHO and UNICEF, 2014a). In addition to the clear risk to
the health of communities, where open defecation takes
place, the consequences for water and the environment are
severe. The ideal solution from a sustainability perspective
is to find productive uses for wastewater, especially in
agriculture, thus relieving stress on water resources and
treatment facilities as well as avoiding loss of nutrients.
Where wastewater is to be treated, minimizing the amount
of wastewater generated improves the potential for
adequate and efficient treatment. In countries where robust
regulations and wastewater treatment exist, reducing energy
use is a key challenge requiring innovative approaches.

5.3 Reducing disparities and
enhancing services
Sustainable development and human rights perspectives
both call for reductions in inequalities and tackling
disparities in access to services (UNGA, 2013). The human
right to water and sanitation sets normative and crosscutting criteria against which the adequacy of WASH
services is to be judged (Figure 5.1). For WASH services to
meet individual’s needs, they must be aesthetically and
culturally acceptable so that people are willing to and
continue to use them, reliable, functional and physically
accessible for all, including the elderly and disabled. Services
must be appropriate for a given population and setting, and
therefore must be selected and managed in such a way as

40

Chapter 5

Public toilet in the shanty town of Ciudad Pachacutec, Ventanilla District, El
Callao Province (Peru)
Photo: Monica Tijero/World Bank

to enable participation from a wide range of stakeholders,
including the customers.
Pronounced disparities in access to WASH services, for
example between regions, rural and urban areas, and
socio-economic groups, are well-documented (WHO and
UNICEF, 2014a). In order to achieve universal access, there
is a need for accelerated progress in disadvantaged groups
and to ensure non-discrimination in WASH service provision.
Whereas some countries have made remarkable progress
in reducing inequalities, in others these gains have largely
bypassed the poor and marginalized. Ethiopia provides an
example of a country that has made great progress during
the period of working towards the MDGs – substantially
increasing sanitation coverage and doing so equitably
across wealth quintiles and regions (Figure 5.3). In 22 years,
Ethiopia reduced open defecation from 92% to 37% (WHO
and UNICEF, 2014a).
Coverage alone does not fully reflect inequalities; disparities
are evident in the levels of service related to the safety,
accessibility and reliability of water services (WHO and
UNICEF, 2011). Even in countries where the majority of the
population uses piped water on premises, certain minority
groups may be neglected. For example, an analysis of
data from Bosnia and Herzegovina found only 32% of the
poorest Roma use an improved source of drinking water
compared with 94% of the general population (WHO and
UNICEF, 2014a). In order to ensure sustainability, the type of
service needs to be appropriate to the context and carefully
chosen based on the available infrastructure, human
and financial resources. For example, the suggestion that
everyone should aspire to a sewer-connected sanitation
facility (a flush toilet) can create great difficulties for
achieving sustainable systems with adequate financing and
especially suitable management of wastewater. Similarly, in

Addressing critical developmental challenges

remote rural areas community sources such as boreholes
can be more affordable than a piped system and easier
to maintain. In these settings, safe household storage is
essential to avoid contamination and creating potential
breeding grounds for disease vectors.

will shift towards attaining the additional benefits of
higher levels of service as well as achieving environmental
sustainability.
Globally, key targets for sustainable WASH identified by
a wide stakeholder consultation include: universal access
to basic water, sanitation and hygiene; elimination of
open defecation; reduction of inequalities; progressive
improvement of service levels; and safe management of
water and excreta (WHO and UNICEF, 2013). In order to
achieve these goals, there is a need to focus on service
delivery and not solely on capital costs, ensure that
services are financially viable, enhance accountability
and transparency in financing, strengthen independent
regulatory agencies, and build capacity to monitor
progress and assess inequalities in service. Creation of new
infrastructure, while essential, will not suffice to increase
sanitation and hygiene coverage. A renewed focus on
changing social norms is paramount.

Household surveys and national censuses also indicate that
there are disparities within households, including gender.
Women and girls are often responsible for collecting water,
especially in rural sub-Saharan Africa where many must
spend at least half an hour to do so (WHO and UNICEF,
2012), and some make multiple trips taking up two to four
hours a day (Pickering and Davis, 2012). At school, lack
of sanitation is more likely to hinder a girl’s educational
attainment than a boy’s. Women’s involvement in local
management of water supplies improves the chances
of successful outcomes (UNEP, 2004), illustrating the
importance of inclusive and participatory approaches in
sustainable water resource management.

5.4 Towards sustainable WASH services
Many challenges remain in securing sustainable WASH
services for present and future generations and ensuring
that these services are within environmental limits. The types
of challenges vary considerably between countries, with
attaining basic access the priority in some and enhancing
services and meeting environmental targets in others. As
coverage continues to increase globally, the emphasis

Sanitation coverage (%) in Ethiopia, by province (2000-2012)

Figure

5.3

12
34

46
61

82

72

43

58

43

37

38

56

73

85

82

89

0

93

24

94
0

17

47
3
3

9
2000

1

2012

National

19

2000

2012

Afar

10

39

18

14

8
2000

35

2012

Somali

2000

2012

8

2000

2012

Tigray

2000

62
42

40

2012

Oromia

Unimproved facilities

58

39

2000

2012

BenishangulGumuz

2000

2012

Dire
Dawa

2000

56

27
14
2012

Amhara

Open defecation

54

13

46
5
2

16

7

6

Gambela

Improved and shared facilities

41
5

98

17

7

14
9

17

15

13

35

32

5

80
19

2
0

37

37

66

11

2000

2012

Harar i

2000

2012

Southern
Nations,
Nationalities,
and People's
Region

2000

2012

Addis
Ababa

Source: WHO and UNICEF (2014a, Fig. 19, p. 15). Reproduced with the permission of the publisher.

WWDR 2015

Water, sanitation and hygiene

41

Urbanization
UN-Habitat | Bhushan Tuladhar, Andre Dzikus and Robert Goodwin

At the same time, as centres for innovation, cities provide
opportunities for more sustainable use of water, including
treating used water to standards that enable it to be used
again. They are well positioned to rapidly adopt conservation
measures, and the concentration of people in compact
settlements can reduce the cost of providing services such as
water supply and sanitation. Furthermore, cities can connect
with their hinterlands and support the protection of water
resources in their surrounding areas by actively engaging in
watershed management or providing PES.

6.2 Challenges
6.2.1 Access to water supply and sanitation
Rapid urbanization, increased industrialization, and
improving living standards generally combine to increase the
overall demand for water in cities. As shown in Figure 6.1, by
2050, global water demand is projected to increase by 55%,
mainly due to growing demand from manufacturing, thermal
electricity generation and domestic use, all of which mainly
results from growing urbanization in developing countries

42

Chapter 6

Although the MDG target on access to safe drinking water
– as measured by the proportion of population using an
improved drinking water source (see Box 1.1) – was met in
2010, the progress in urban areas has not been able to keep
up with the rapid pace of urbanization (Figure 6.2). Between
1990 and 2012, the number of urban residents who did not
have access to an improved drinking water source decreased
by 1 percentage point. However, in absolute terms, the
number of people in urban areas without access to an
improved drinking water source increased from 111 million
to 149 million (WHO and UNICEF, 2014a), indicating that

6 .1

Global water demand in 2000 and 2050
6 000
5 000
4 000
km

Cities impact the hydrological cycle in several ways by:
extracting significant amounts of water from surface and
groundwater sources; extending impervious surfaces thus
preventing recharge of groundwater and exacerbating flood
risks; and polluting water bodies through the discharge of
untreated wastewater. Since much of the water consumed
by cities generally comes from outside the city limits, and
the pollution they generate also tends to flow downstream,
the impact of cities on water resources goes beyond their
boundaries. Cities also import significant amounts of food,
consumer goods and energy from outside the city, which
requires large amounts of water at the point of production,
transportation and sale. This virtual demand of cities greatly
exceeds direct water use (Hoekstra and Chapagain, 2006).

(OECD, 2012a). As easily available surface water and
groundwater sources have been depleted in many urbanized
areas, cities will have to go further or dig deeper to access
water, or will have to depend on innovative solutions
or more advanced technologies such as reverse osmosis
for desalination, or reclaimed water to meet their water
demands (see WWAP, 2015, Chapter 1, Case study “Towards
sustainable groundwater management in Asian cities”.)

Figure

6.1 Water in a rapidly urbanizing world
Cities have become the place where development challenges
and opportunities increasingly come face to face. In 2014,
3.9 billion people, or 54% of the global population, lived in
cities, and by 2050, two-thirds of the global population will
be living in cities (UNDESA, 2014). Furthermore, most of this
growth is happening in developing countries, which have
limited capacity to deal with this rapid change.

3

6

3 000
2 000
1 000

0

2000 2050 2000 2050 2000 2050 2000 2050
OECD
BRIICS
ROW
World
Irrigation

Domestic

Manufacturing

Electricity

Livestock

Note: BRIICS (Brazil, Russia, India, Indonesia, China, South Africa);
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development);
ROW (rest of the world). This graph only measures ‘blue water’
demand and does not consider rainfed agriculture.	
Source: OECD (2012a, Fig. 5.4, p. 217, output from IMAGE). OECD
Environmental Outlook to 2050 © OECD.

Addressing critical developmental challenges

25
324
3
24
25
84
7
25 63
16
84
33
63 63
7 7 17
16 16 19
22
17117
22
1
4
19 19
63
77
63 17
2
40
4 4
35
17
15
17
17 17
40 40 19
35 35 2 2
19
3
15 15 9
3 3
49 9 40
14
14
2
23
22
14 20
14
35
4 4 2402 23 23 12
42
35
37
42
22
2037
20
40
2
11
40
12 12
52 2 11 11 99 9
1
2
20
5205
1
2 1995 2010
12
1995 2010
1995 2010
1995in2010
1995Cambodia
2010
12
Access
to
urban
in
10
10
1995
19952010
2010sanitation
1995
19952010
2010 1995
19952010
2010
19952010
2010
19952010
2010
10 1995
10 1995
18

16
16
15
15

99
4

19
19

44

17
17

33

1

414 1
22
2214
14 14

55

14
37 14 14
5
37 37
22
1 44
2
44
34
1 1
2342
10
10
10 10
10 10
18
18

Figure

22 23
4 the
23
access to drinking water is actually deteriorating where
12
1995 2010
1995
12
6.3
22
1111 9
1995
19952010
2010 1995
1995
55
most rapid urbanization is outpacing public services
(see 9
different
wealth
quintiles
1995 2010
1995 2010
1995 2010
1995 Type
2010 1:
1995
2010
1995 – 2010
1995
2010
1995 2010
1995 2010
19952: 2E
Uneven
progress
Rural
Pakistan
Type
1995 2010
1995 2010
1995 2010
1995 Type
2010
2010 progress
1995– Rural
1995
2010
1995 2010
1995 Type
2010
1995
Type
1:1995
1:
Uneven
Uneven
progress
–2010
Rural
Pakistan
Pakistan
Type
2:
2:
EqE
Section 6.3.1). The situation is worse in sub-Saharan
Africa,
Type
1:
Uneven
progress
–
Rural
Pakistan
Type
2:
Equitable
progress
–
Rural
Peru
where urbanization is happening most rapidly. In this
region,
Type
1: Uneven progress – Rural Pakistan
Type 2: Equitable progress – Rural Peru
Poorest
Poorest
Poor
PP
Middle
Rich
Richest
the percentage of people who enjoyed piped water on their
Poorest
Poorest
Poorest
Poorest
Poor
Poor
Poo
Middle
Middle
Rich
Rich
Richest
Richest
00
0 11 1
0000
22 2 55 5
00
0
0
1
0
1
1
Poorest
Poorest
Poor
Poor
Middle
Middle
Rich
Rich
Richest
Riches
premises, which is the preferred option for urban
areas,
0 Middle
0
44 4Poor
Poorest
Poor
Middle
Rich 0
Rich
Richest
Riche
00 Poorest
0 6
14
99 9
14 14
1
6 6
22 5
00
00
0 11
00
11 11
5
11
actually decreased from 42% to 34% (WHO and UNICEF,
1
4
0
0
4 99
14
0 6
14
6
1616
16
22 2 32 32
1111
2014a). This clearly indicates that access to ‘safe’ drinking
32
16
22
32
16 54
water sources continues to be a major problem in cities in
54 54
15 15
15
54
the developing world.
54
15
15 15

15

15

85 85
85

15
15

9393
9381
96
96
8196
86
86

6
9292
92
72
72

Similar to trends in drinking water, the number of urban 8585
92
92
100
100
92 86
92
100
86
15 15
96
15
90
9696 90
93
93
96
89
89
96
residents without access to improved sanitation96increased
96
87
87
100
3 3
89
100
87
15
96
3
15
96
89
87
73 73
by 40%, from 541 to 754 million, between 1990 and332012
89
87
69 69
73
14 14
69
14
73
(WHO and UNICEF, 2014a). Therefore, although sanitation
73
69
14
69
14
coverage is generally higher in urban areas, because of
1
38 38
38
13
29 29 11 11
13
rapid urbanization, increasing numbers of urban residents,
38
29 11
38
4 4
2 2 9
particularly the poor, are unable to access improved 2929 1111
4 4
4 4
55 737 23 29 2 626 42
40 0
0 0
40 0
33
2 32 41 21 2 22
44
0
5
2
4
5
1
sanitation. Also, due to higher population densities
in
urban
3
9
5 2010
42010 1995
2 1995
44
4 1995
5
32010
3 219952010
00
01995199520102010 01995199520102010 199519952010
1995
1995
22010
2
32010
31995
1 9 1995
22 2010
00
44 441995 66
00
23
23
23
22
11 2010
1995 2010
1995 2010
1995 2010
1995
1995
2010
2010
1995
2
2
2
2
areas, the health consequences of poor sanitation
1995 can
2010 be
1995 2010
1995 2010
1995 2010
1995 2010
1995 2010
1995 2010
1995 2010
1995 2010
1995 2
1995 2010
1995 2010
1995 2010
1995 Type
2010
1995
2010
2010Cambodia
1995 2010
1995 2010
1995 Type
2010
1995
Type
3: 3:
Levelling
Levelling
upup
–1995
Urban
– Urban
Cambodia
Type
4:
4:
Sta
S
pervasive. In urban Cambodia, for example, 54% ofType
the 3: Levelling up – Urban Cambodia
Type 3: Levelling up – Urban
Cambodia
Type
4: S
Type
4:
Stagnation
–
Rural
Burkina
Faso
Type 3: Levelling up – Urban Cambodia
Type 4: Stagnation – Rural Burkina Faso
people in the poorest quintile still defecate in the open,
Improved
Improved
Shared
Shared
Unimproved
Unimproved
Open
Open
defecation
defecation
while among the richest 40% of the population, this
has
Improved
Shared
Unimproved
Open defecation
Improved
Shared
Unimproved
Open
defecation
Improved
Shared
Unimproved
Open defecation
gone down to zero (Figure 6.3).
Source: Extracted from WHO and UNICEF (2014a, Fig. 29, p. 24).
Reproduced with the permission of the publisher.

The increase in the number of people without access to water
and sanitation in urban areas is directly related to the rapid

Trends in urban water supply coverage (1990-2012)

Figure

6.2

96 96
96

4
13

3
12

2
8

0
6

0
4

3
5

2
4

18

20

1
3
13

44
41

1
9

39

1
3
10

0
6
8

0
5
4

1
4
10

0
4
4

1
5
7

1
2
5

0
3
3

0
2
3

5
16

0
5

22

21

10
2

00
2

14

1
4

0
4

14

16

81

80

42

51

74

1990

1
6

49
50

42

2

34

2012

SubSaharan
Africa

41

1990

50

51

74

83

86

86

91

85

92

87

94

92

97

71

2012

1990 2012

Southern
Asia

Piped on premises

98

74

54
29

SouthEastern
Asia

51

95

1990

2012

Oceania

1990

2012

Caucasus
and Central
Asia

Other improved

1990

2012

Northern
Africa

1990

2012

Western
Asia

1990

2012

Latin
America &
Caribbean

Unimproved

1990

2012

Eastern
Asia

1990

33

2012 1990

2012

1990 2012

Least
Developing Developed
developed regions
regions
countries

1990 2012
1990
2012

World

Surface water

Source: WHO and UNICEF (2014a, Fig. A4-1, p. 66), reproduced with the permission of the publisher.

WWDR 2015

Urbanization

43

growth of slum populations in the developing world and the
inability or unwillingness of local and national governments
to provide adequate water and sanitation facilities in these
communities. While there has been some progress in moving
people out of slum conditions, it has not been enough to
counter population growth in informal settlements. The
world's slum population is expected to reach 889 million by
2020 (UN-Habitat, 2010). As slum dwellers are generally more
likely to suffer inadequate access to safe water and sanitation
and are also more vulnerable to the impacts of extreme
weather events, water management in cities, particularly
slum settlements, will be a major challenge in the future. In
some informal settlements, however, local communities and
the private sector have come up with innovative solutions. In
Mombasa, for example, where only about 15% of the people
have access to piped water supply, more than 80% have
access to an improved water source because they receive
water from kiosks (Figure 6.4).
6.2.2 Pollution and wastewater management
Many cities in developing countries do not have the
necessary infrastructure to collect and treat wastewater.
In the absence of proper drainage systems, sewage mixes
with stormwater causing further pollution. It is estimated
that up to 90% of all wastewater in developing countries is
discharged untreated directly into rivers, lakes or the oceans,
causing major environmental and health risks (Corcoran et
al., 2010). This has huge social and economic impacts due
to increased health care costs and lower labour productivity.

There is clearly a need to expand wastewater treatment systems
and improve efficiency of existing treatment plants. While
some developing countries such as Chile have been successful
in treating almost all their wastewater (Bartone, 2011),
experience from most developing countries indicates that
wastewater management can be expensive and most cities do
not have or allocate the necessary resources for this. Moreover,
the cost of the wastewater collection is often underestimated.
There is a need for more innovative options for such as
decentralized wastewater treatment solutions and biogas
production for reusing and recycling wastewater and reducing
the cost of wastewater management (Lüthi et al., 2011).
6.2.3 Institutional capacity and water governance
Given the rapid pace of urbanization, the institutional
capacity of local and national governments and water
utilities to increase investments and manage the delivery of
services is becoming critical, especially in cities with old and
poorly maintained water and sanitation infrastructure and
cities in the developing world. High rates of unaccountedfor water (mainly due to leakages), unsustainable tariffs and
weak systems of governance are typical manifestations of
the growing capacity gaps in many urban areas. Leakage
results in loss of revenue, higher chances of drinking water

Access to water in Mombasa's informal settlements

Figure

6.4

Wastewater also has impacts on the global environment as
wastewater-related emissions of methane, a powerful global
warming gas, and nitrous oxide could rise by 50% and 25%,
respectively, between 1990 and 2020 (Corcoran et al., 2010).

Drinking water coverage (%)

100

Other unimproved

80

Cart with small tank/drum
60
Other improved
40
Water kiosk
20

Neighbour's tap/public tap
Piped on premises

0
Kenya
Urban

Mombasa
Informal areas

Low

Medium

High

Wealth

Source: WHO and UNICEF (2014a, Fig. 24, p. 20). Reproduced with the permission of the publisher.

44

Chapter 6

Addressing critical developmental challenges

contamination and outbreaks of waterborne diseases, which
will further reduce water service quality and the consumers'
willingness to pay.
6.2.4 Climate change and water-related disasters
Because the impacts of climate change are complex and
unpredictable (see Chapter 10), the availability of and
demand for water are highly likely to be affected. Water and
sanitation infrastructure may be at risk because of extreme
events and sea level rise. With increased urbanization
encroaching upon natural drainage paths and changed land
use caused by urbanization resulting in increased runoff,
there is also an urgent need for more sustainable urban
drainage systems to address the issues of inundation and
water contamination. As the urban poor tend to live in
concentrated and highly vulnerable areas such as river banks,
they are more vulnerable to the impacts of climate change.
Coping with the effects of climate change will therefore
require cities to strengthen planning and management
capacities related to water and integrate water management
with overall urban development.

6.3 Responses
The dedicated goal for water and its five targets proposed
by UN-Water (2014) as part of the post-2015 agenda for
sustainable development (see Chapter 16) are very relevant
for the sustainable use of water in the urban context. The
targets provide an appropriate framework for responding to
the challenges of managing water in cities.

6.3.1 Pro-poor policies for safe water supply and
sanitation
Rapid urbanization is outpacing public service provisions
in the developing world and the overall number of people
without access to safe water and sanitation in urban areas
is increasing. The proposed target on universal access to

Many cities in developing
countries do not have the
necessary infrastructure to
collect and treat wastewater
safe water, sanitation and hygiene should stimulate action
to address this critical issue. Furthermore, as the target also
includes an element of progressively eliminating inequalities
in access, it would encourage policy-makers to address the
needs of the urban poor. In doing so, governments and
service providers can learn from experiences of successful
and innovative initiatives that focus on the needs of urban
poor and create an enabling environment for service delivery
(Box 6.1).
6.3.2 Integrated urban water management
The proposed target on sustainable use and development
of water resources can benefit from experiences of

BOX

6.1

WWDR 2015

Pro-poor policies in Kampala

BOX

6.2

Forest conservation by a water utility in
Costa Rica

In 2004, the Government of Uganda set a target
of 100% coverage of water supply and sanitation
services in urban areas by 2015. In response, the
National Water and Sewerage Corporation (NWSC),
which is responsible for water and sanitation services
in Kampala, introduced a series of measures such as
affordable connection, a pro-poor tariff, and special
projects targeted at the poor. It set up an urban propoor branch in 2007 and provided a variety of service
options including household connections, prepaid
public water points/kiosks, and shared yard taps. As
a result, NWSC was able to significantly expand its
services to the urban poor while increasing its revenue.
The pro-poor branch was also able to reduce the
proportion of inactive public water points and yard
taps from 40% in 2007 to less than 10% in 2009.

Since 2000, the local water supply company (Empresa
de Servicios Públicos de Heredia) in the province
of Heredia in Costa Rica has invested in protecting
strategic forest areas in the Virilla River Watershed,
allowing for the recharge of surface and groundwater
sources. Enforcement of approved regulation against
changes in land use patterns ensures the protection
of the province’s main sources of water supply. The
company charges an additional 3% of the monthly
water bill to its users and collected funds are used to
compensate land owners for control of changes in
land use. Over the last ten years, the programme has
protected more than 1,100 ha of forest within the
catchment. As a result, the province is able to provide
clean water to all its 200,000 residents while minimizing
the need to invest in water treatment infrastructure.

Source: Kariuki et al. (2014).

Source: Barrantes and Gámez (2007).

Urbanization

45

Rocinha Favela, the largest in Brazil
Photo: Ahln

Phnom Penh water supply: An example of
good governance
The Phnom Penh Water Supply Authority (PPWSA),
which has transformed itself from a near-bankrupt,
demoralized and corrupt institution into one of the
best water utilities in the world, can provide valuable
experiences for other cities. Under the dynamic
leadership of Ek Sonn Chan, PPWSA was able to
turn around the performance of the utility within a
decade to provide all people with continuous, good
quality and affordable water supply, while consistently
increasing its net profit. Due to its pro-poor policies, it
has also increased its connections to poor households
from 101 household connections in 1999 to 17,657
in 2008. The fact that Phnom Penh has been able
to reduce its unaccounted-for water from over 60%
in 1998 to just 6% by 2008, which is comparable to
Singapore, demonstrates that state managed utilities
in developing countries can be efficient, if they have
good leadership and governance.
Source: Biswas and Tortajada (2010).

46

Chapter 6

6.4
BOX

BOX

6.3

DEWATS in Indonesia
The government of Indonesia is promoting
community-managed decentralized wastewater
treatment systems (DEWATS) and aims to reach 5% of
the total urban population through DEWATS by the end
of 2014. A review of almost 400 DEWATS units installed
in different Indonesian cities between 2003 and 2007
found that over 80% of them were functioning well
and complying with effluent discharge standards.
The study found, however, that sustained use of
the infrastructure over the long term requires some
external monitoring and support, as community
groups often lose enthusiasm and are reluctant to
fund major repairs on their own. It concluded that
"community managed DEWATS can be effective for
serving poor communities where the appropriate type
of system is built well in the right location, the number
of users is optimized and sustained and there is shared
responsibility with government for operation and
maintenance” (WSP, 2013).
Source: WSP (2013).

Addressing critical developmental challenges

integrated urban water management (IUWM) systems in
various countries. IUWM calls for the alignment of urban
development and basin management and brings together
water supply, sanitation, and stormwater and wastewater
management, and integrates these with land use planning
and economic development. Implementation of IUWM will
require appropriate institutional structures, policies, careful
planning, capacity-building and investment in systems
such as protection of upstream catchment areas, rainwater
harvesting and recharge, water demand management and
water reuse (Box 6.2).
6.3.3 Urban water governance
The target on equitable, participatory and accountable
water governance will require strong political commitment,
appropriate policy and legal frameworks, effective
institutional structures, efficient administrative systems and
capable human resources. It will also require investments in
water infrastructure, renewal, operations and maintenance.
A study estimates that one dollar of water and sewer
infrastructure investment increases private output (gross
domestic product) in the long-term by US$6.35 and yields a
further US$2.62 output in other industries. These benefits
accrue in terms of jobs created, final output and private
sector investment (Krop et al., 2008). Experiences from cities
around the world have shown that it is possible to improve
the performance of urban water supply systems and increase
revenue and profits, while continuing to expand the system
and addressing the needs of the poor, provided that there is
strong leadership and good governance (Box 6.3).
6.3.4 Sustainable sanitation
Effective management of water resources and reduction
of water pollution will require investment in sustainable
sanitation systems which are technically appropriate,
economically viable, socially acceptable and environmentally
sound. These may include promotion of reuse, treatment of
wastewater to an appropriate level for the intended reuse
option, and integration of sanitation systems with overall
water resource and urban planning and design (Lüthi et al.,
2011). Since transportation accounts for much of the cost of
wastewater management, decentralized systems that treat
wastewater close to the source, using simple technologies
that maximize recycling of water and nutrients, can be more

WWDR 2015

effective, particularly in poor and peri-urban settlements
(Box 6.4). Wastewater systems can also generate energy;
treated wastewater can be reused, thus contributing to
water, energy and food security and therefore health and
economy. In Accra, urban vegetable gardens irrigated by
treated wastewater provide up to 90% of the vegetable
needs of the city (Tettey-Lowor, 2009).
On-site sanitation, which is still the main approach used in
most urban areas in Africa and Asia, is a challenge as well
as an opportunity. If faecal sludge is not managed properly,
it can cause major health risks and pollution, but avoiding
extensive sewer systems leads to investment savings and
allows for more innovative decentralized options that are
less water- and energy-intensive can be explored.
6.3.5 Adaptation to climate change and
water-related disasters
The World Bank estimates that the global costs of
adaptation from 2010 to 2050 will be US$70 billion to 100
billion a year (World Bank, 2010a). The sectors requiring
the main bulk of this investment will be water supply and
flood protection, infrastructure and coastal zones, with
urban areas requiring an estimated 80% of the total
funding required for adaptation (World Bank, 2010b). As
most of this investment will be needed in developing
countries, where the infrastructure and systems are yet
to be built, there are possibilities for making future cities
climate smart, thus reducing climate risks and maximizing
environmental and economic benefits. For example, costbenefit assessments of early warning systems for storms,
floods, and droughts undertaken throughout Asia indicate
potential returns of up to US$559 for each US$1 invested
(Subbiah et al., 2008).
Some cities like Singapore have taken adaptive measures to
increase the resilience of urban water supply and sanitation
systems. To avoid seawater intrusion into reservoirs, most
reservoir dams are much higher than the predicted sea
level rise, and if needed the gates can be further raised. By
diversifying its water sources to include rainwater harvesting,
reclaimed water and desalinization, the city has reduced
its vulnerability to prolonged dry periods (Chiplunkar et al.,
2012).

Urbanization

47

7

Food and agriculture
FAO | Edited by: Jippe Hoogeveen

By 2050, agriculture will need to produce 60% more
food globally, and 100% more in developing countries
(Alexandratos and Bruinsma, 2012). However, current
growth rates of agricultural demands on the world’s
freshwater resources are unsustainable. Inefficient use
of water for crop production depletes aquifers, reduces
river flows, degrades wildlife habitats, and has caused
salinization of 20% of the global irrigated land area (FAO,
2011a). The bulk of capture fisheries production comes from
coastal waters, where both the productivity and the quality
of fish stocks are severely affected by pollution, much of
which comes from agriculture. Although reservoirs can
create opportunities for aquaculture, capture fisheries and
aquaculture can also be threatened by competing demands
from hydropower development and water diversion for
industrial uses.
To achieve “a world free from hunger and malnutrition,
where food and agriculture contribute to improving
the living standards of all, especially the poorest, in an
economically, socially and environmentally sustainable

1. Improving efficiency in the use of resources is crucial to
sustainable agriculture.
2. Sustainability requires direct action to conserve, protect
and enhance natural resources.
3. Agriculture that fails to protect and improve rural
livelihoods and social well-being is unsustainable.
4. Enhanced resilience of people, communities and
ecosystems is key to sustainable agriculture.
5. Sustainable food and agriculture requires responsible and
effective governance mechanisms.
The principles are interconnected and complementary and
should often be considered simultaneously (Figure 7.1). They
support the three dimensions of sustainable development.
The first two principles directly refer to the environment,
while the third refers to social and economic development.
The fourth and the fifth underpin all three dimensions of
sustainable development. For the application of all five

The five principles of sustainable agriculture

Figure

7.1

manner” (FAO, 2013a), FAO has proposed the following five
principles (FAO, 2014a):

Source: FAO (2014a, Fig. 3, pp. 18-19).

48

Chapter 7

Addressing critical developmental challenges

principles, a range of actions can be taken to enhance
agricultural productivity and sustainability.

7.1 Improving resource use efficiency
In broad terms, agriculture has two options to increase
water use efficiency: reduce water losses and increase water
productivity.
The first option seeks to increase the efficiency of water
use by reducing water losses in the process of production.
Technically, ‘water use efficiency’ is a dimensionless ratio
that can be calculated at any scale, from irrigation system
to the point of consumption in the field. It is generally
applied to any management approach that reduces the nonbeneficial use of water (i.e. reducing leakage or evaporative
losses in water conveyance and application). The second
option focuses on increasing crop productivity. This involves
producing more crop or value per volume of water applied.

The single most important avenue
for managing water demand in
agriculture is through increasing
agricultural productivity
systems. The share of water lost through non-beneficial
consumption, either through evaporation or through
drainage into low quality water bodies or to the sea, varies
according to local conditions. A clear understanding of the
real potential for reducing water losses is needed to avoid
designing costly and ineffective demand management
strategies (2030 WRG, 2013).
In most cases, the single most important avenue for
managing water demand in agriculture is through increasing
agricultural productivity. Increased crop yields are made
possible through a combination of improved water control,
improved land management and agronomic practices.
The latter include the choice of genetic material, and

7.1

Deficit irrigation for high yield and maximum net profits

BOX

Clearly, there is scope for managing the demand for water
in agriculture in time and in space. However, excessive
emphasis is often placed on the first option, with efforts
aimed at reducing water ‘losses’ within irrigation distribution
systems. Two factors limit the scope for and impact of water
loss reduction. First, only part of the water ‘lost’(defined
as water that is diverted for purposes that have clear and
tangible benefits, such as for household purposes, irrigation,
industrial processing and cooling), while withdrawn for

beneficial use, can be recovered effectively at a reasonable
cost. Second, part of the water ‘lost’ between the source
and final users return to the hydrological system, either
through percolation into aquifers or as return flow into river

Maximum crop productivity is achieved using high-yielding varieties with optimal water supply, soil fertility and crop
protection. However, crops can also produce well with sub-optimal water supply. In deficit irrigation, water supply is less
than the crop’s full requirement, and mild stress is allowed during growth stages that are less sensitive to moisture deficiency.
The expectation is that any yield reduction will be limited, and additional benefits are gained by diverting the saved water to
irrigate other crops or for other beneficial uses.
A six-year study of winter wheat production on the North China Plain showed water savings of 25% or more through the
application of deficit irrigation at various growth stages. In normal years, two irrigations (instead of the usual four) of 60 mm
were enough to achieve acceptably high yields and maximize net profits. In Punjab, Pakistan, a study of the long-term impacts
of deficit irrigation on wheat and cotton reported yield reductions of up to 15% when irrigation was applied to satisfy only
60% of total crop evapotranspiration. The study highlighted the importance of maintaining leaching practices in order to avoid
the long-term risk of soil salinization.
In studies carried out in India on irrigated groundnuts, production and water productivity were increased by imposing transient
soil moisture-deficit stress during the vegetative phase, 20 to 45 days after sowing. Water stress applied during the vegetative
growth phase may have had a favourable effect on root growth, contributing to more effective water use from deeper soil
horizons. Higher water savings are possible in fruit trees, compared to herbaceous crops. In Australia, regulated deficit irrigation
of fruit trees increased water productivity by approximately 60%, with a gain in fruit quality and no loss in yield.
It should be noted, however, that deficit irrigation can only obtain good results if the irrigation systems provide very reliable
water services that are also quite flexible.
Source: FAO (2011b).

WWDR 2015

Food and agriculture

49

improved soil fertility management and plant protection. It
is important to note that plant breeding and biotechnology
can help by increasing the harvestable parts of the biomass,
reducing biomass losses through increased resistance to
pests and diseases, reducing soil evaporation through
vigorous early growth for fast ground cover, and reduced
susceptibility to drought. Therefore, managing overall
demand through a focus on water productivity rather than
concentrating on the technical efficiency of water use alone
is an important consideration (Box 7.1).

7.2 Conserving, protecting and
enhancing natural resources
It is crucial to protect and restore natural ecosystems like
wetlands, forests, rivers and lakes that provide important
ecosystem services with regard to the quality and quantity
of water (see Chapter 4). However, while preserving the
environmental function of water systems is a priority, its
execution will involve careful negotiation on required
environmental flows. Since agricultural landscapes also
perform environmental functions, the boundary between
environmental water requirements and agricultural water
demand is often not clear-cut (see WWAP, 2015, Chapter 7,
Case study "Progress on sustainable development objectives
in the Mekong Delta, Viet Nam.")
Planting rice in Viet Nam
Photo: UN Photo/Kibae Park

BOX

7.2

Rio Rural: Payments for environmental services in a watershed management programme
In the northern parts of the State of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, past rural policies gave priority to mono-cropping of coffee and
sugar cane, as well as extensive cattle raising. The associated deforestation and unsustainable production systems lead to soil
degradation and depletion of water resources.
Since 2006, the Rio Rural Programme has been working to reverse this pattern by providing long term support to small family
farmers, to transition to eco-friendly productive systems. Since most of the more sustainable technologies have higher costs
of implementation and low impacts on rural income, it is crucial to establish a financial incentive system to support their
adoption.
With financing from GEF (2006-2011), the World Bank (2010-2018), federal and state programmes and the private sector, Rio
Rural will invest US$200 million on 180,000 ha and benefiting 78,000 farmers, of which 47,000 receive direct financial incentives
and technical assistance to improve productivity. In return, farmers agree to conserve remnant forest areas.
The Rio Rural strategy for long-term sustainability of farmers´ agro-ecosystems is to ensure that every farming technology
upgrade is jointly adopted with a conservation practice, so farmers are able to raise productivity while improving environment
quality. Farmers who adopt rotational grazing systems with Rio Rural support also agree to release part of their lands to forest
restoration, to protect springs and riparian strips.
Activities directly related to water protection are partly funded by water supply authorities, at local, state and federal levels.
Rio Rural offers technical support and financial incentives to income generation activities and watershed management
committees invest earmarked shares of water fees directly in the conservation practices.
Contributed by the Rio Rural project team, Sustainable Development Department (SEAPEC), Rio de Janeiro State Secretariat of Agriculture, Brazil
(http://www.microbacias.rj.gov.br/index.jsp).

50

Chapter 7

Addressing critical developmental challenges

With increased intensive agriculture, water pollution from
both point and non-point sources may worsen. Technologies
exist to limit agricultural water pollution, in particular through
integrated pest and plant nutrition management. Experience
from high income countries shows that a combination of
incentives, including more stringent regulation, enforcement
and well-targeted subsidies, can help reduce water pollution
(FAO, 2012b). In addition, the PES approach (see Section
4.3.1), often in combination with the above-mentioned
incentives, can lead to a noticeable reduction in agricultural
pollution and savings in water treatment costs downstream of
agricultural land (Box 7.2).

7.3 Rural livelihoods and social well-being
Agricultural development aims to benefit those whose
livelihoods depend on it by increasing their access to
resources and assets, their participation in markets
and their job opportunities. If it fails to do so, it is
unsustainable. Since 75% of the world’s poor live in
rural areas, broad-based rural development and the wide
sharing of its benefits are the most effective means of
reducing poverty and food insecurity (World Bank, 2007a).
The status of women, who make up the majority of the
world’s hungry and have disproportionately low levels of
resource ownership, requires special attention. With equal
access to resources and knowledge, female farmers, who
account for the majority of all subsistence farmers, could
produce enough additional food to reduce the number of
the world’s hungry by 150 million (FAO, 2011c).
Water scarcity can impose a major constraint on agricultural
productivity and rural poverty reduction. The vulnerability of
rural people remains considerable due to a combination of
highly variable and erratic precipitation; poor development
of hydraulic infrastructure, management and markets;

BOX

7.3

non-conducive land and water governance; and a lack
of access to water for domestic and productive uses. For
millions of smallholder farmers, fishers and herders, water
is one of the most important production assets. Securing
access to and control and management of water is key to
enhancing their livelihoods, especially in Africa (see Chapter
15). Approaches exist for well-targeted local interventions
in water that contribute to rapid improvement in the
livelihoods of the rural poor (Box 7.3). However, investments
in water infrastructure alone cannot suffice to improve
agricultural productivity. Farmers need access to inputs like

The social impacts of rapid food
price inflation have hit the
poorest hardest
fertilizer and seed material and, like fishers, need access to
water, and all users need access to credit. In addition, they
need better education and information regarding the use of
inputs and latest techniques.
In South-East Asia, under the influence of fast but uneven
economic growth, the agricultural sector faces two
complex trends: (a) an increasing income gap between
agriculture and other sectors and (b) the need to reverse
the unsustainable use and degradation of the region’s
limited natural resources base. A key challenge for decisionmakers is to adopt policies and strategies to help bridge a
widening gap between urban affluence and rural poverty,
while also encompassing ‘green’ measures necessary to
enhance ecological well-being. For many farmers and fishers,
solutions need to be found outside of the agricultural sector.

The Keita Project: Exploring the range of water conservation options in western Niger
The Keita Project, funded by Italy and the World Food Programme at more than US$80 million, started its activities in the AderDoutchi-Majiya, an arid region of Niger, in 1984. It is a project of unusual scale and duration and, by 1991, it covered an area of
13,000 km2, with about 300,000 people in 400 villages. The project provided services and infrastructure on a grand scale. By the
end of 1999, it had created 50 artificial lakes, 42 dams and 20 anti-erosion dykes, and 65 village wells. It had applied soil and
water conservation techniques to about 10,000 ha of land, and had planted 16 million reforestation seedlings. In addition, the
project provided a variety of infrastructure, including schools, maternity centres, veterinary facilities, shops and storehouses,
and it included women’s empowerment programmes, microcredit and adult literacy courses.
The aspects of the project that were most appreciated by the local population were the increased availability of water and
fodder, together with the distribution of ‘food for work’ in an area with few work opportunities (Rossi, 2006). Ten years after
project completion, most of the hydraulic infrastructure was still in place and functioning for the benefit of local populations.
Source: FAO (2002 and 2008, Box 6, p. 51) and Italian Development Cooperation (2009).

WWDR 2015

Food and agriculture

51

There is general recognition that the current performance of
the irrigation sector is often environmentally unsustainable,
and that the level of service delivery is, on the whole,
inadequate to meet the poorest farmers’ needs to generate
sufficient income for a dignified livelihood, let alone their
future requirements. Modernizing large scale irrigation
systems should allow for farm size consolidation, rendering
them highly reliable, flexible and service oriented. This

Female farmers, who account
for the majority of all subsistence
farmers, could produce enough
additional food to reduce the
number of the world’s hungry by
150 million
would also create room for acknowledging the multiple
users of water so that their planning can be compatible
with long-term urban, energy and transport infrastructure
perspectives.

7.4 Improving resilience
In the context of sustainable food and agriculture, resilience
is the capacity of farming, fishing and herding communities,
households or individuals to maintain or enhance system

BOX

7.4

productivity by preventing, mitigating or coping with risks,
adapting to change and recovering from shocks. Phenomena
such as extreme weather events and market volatility, as well
as civil strife and political instability, impair the productivity
and stability of agriculture, which in turn increases
uncertainty and risks for producers. The social impacts of
rapid food price inflation have hit the poorest hardest.
Improving the resilience of water users to shocks and
extreme events is a vital part of an effective coping strategy
(Box 7.4). The buffering capacity of global agricultural
markets to absorb supply shocks and stabilize agricultural
commodity prices is tied to the continued functioning of
land and water systems. At the same time, climate change
brings additional risks and further unpredictability of
harvests for farmers, fishers and herders due to warming
and related aridity, shifts in rainfall patterns, and the
frequency and duration of extreme events.

7.5 Effective governance
The key principles for enhancing effective governance
include: participation, accountability, transparency, equality
and fairness, efficiency and effectiveness, and rule of
law (FAO, 2013b). Following these key principles helps
ensure social justice, equity and a long-term perspective
on the protection of natural resources. When sustainability
processes are dominated by abstract environmental
concerns, without adequate attention to social and
economic dimensions, they are unlikely to be implemented.
A transition to sustainable agriculture requires enabling

Strengthening adaptive capacity of smallholder farmers through land and water management
The pilot project ‘Strengthening capacity for climate change adaptation in land and water management’ carried out from
2011 to 2014 by FAO and funded by the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (Sida), aimed to identify
appropriate technologies that decrease crop and livestock production risk in East Africa.
In sub-Saharan Africa, ‘no regret options’ for climate change adaptation (i.e. options that increase the resilience of communities,
not only to climate change but to any type of shock) have the highest probability of success both in the short and in the long
term. In the Wurba watershed, Shoa Robit Woreda Ethiopia, measures were implemented to retain the surface runoff in the
uplands and improve water-holding capacity of the soil. These measures increase groundwater recharge and also protect the
top soil. The measures consisted of hillside terraces with trenches, stone check dams on hillsides, cut-off drains, trenches and
micro-basins.
In addition, water harvesting methods were undertaken in an attempt to reduce the impact of periods of droughts and to
diversify sources of income. These methods included excavation of ponds on homesteads and farmland, lined with geomembrane, in which water was stored and used for domestic purposes, to water animals, and for horticulture. The project
also provided cisterns for rooftop water harvesting, as no source of water is available locally during the dry season. The
interventions have decreased the time and labour required to fetch water, while also increasing household incomes through
the availability of high value horticultural products.
Source: FAO (2014b).

52

Chapter 7

Addressing critical developmental challenges

BOX

7.5

Groundwater governance in Andhra Pradesh, India
The Netherlands-funded ‘Andhra Pradesh Farmer Managed Groundwater Systems (APFAMGS) Project’ was implemented by
FAO in the southern part of the Republic of India. It covered about 638 villages in seven drought-prone districts of Andhra
Pradesh. In the project area, the natural groundwater recharge rates are estimated to be about 70–100 mm/year.
By the late 1990s, groundwater abstraction rates had grown to an equivalent of 120–150 mm/year, and an increasingly
large portion of existing dug wells fell dry or became seasonal. In response, a rapid growth of bore wells was observed with
steadily increasing depths (related to the flat-rate rural electricity tariff ). The expansion of groundwater use resulted in serious
dewatering of the main water bearing horizons of the shallow aquifer system.
In order to reverse the problem, the project developed a participatory hydrological monitoring programme to provide farmers
with the necessary knowledge, data and skills to understand the hydrology of groundwater resources. Due to significant
variations in local hydrogeology, the calculations are specific for each aquifer and follow the standard methodology developed
and used by India’s Central Ground Water Board.
Groundwater management committees in each aquifer or hydrological unit estimated the total groundwater resource
available and worked out the appropriate cropping systems to match. The committees then disseminated the information to
the entire farming community and acted as pressure groups encouraging appropriate water saving and harvesting projects,
promoting low investment organic agriculture and helping formulate rules that would ensure inter-annual sustainability of
limited groundwater resources.
In the majority of the pilot project area, the results have been very positive, as witnessed by a substantial reduction in
groundwater use through crop diversification and irrigation water-saving techniques and improving profitability despite less
water use.
Source: Govardhan Das and Burke (2013).

policy, legal and institutional environments that strike the
right balance between private and public sector initiatives,
and ensures accountability, equity, transparency and
appropriate legislation (Box 7.5).
Agriculture and food security are intimately linked to water,
and therefore policies in these domains must be consistent.
In times of crises, and with volatile markets, ensuring a
country’s food security (or that a country’s population is
fed) becomes a primary concern for national decisionmakers. Water authorities should cease to regard water as
a sector ‘compartment’ and engage more proactively with
other economic sectors to make their strategies for coping
with water scarcity coherent with key decisions being taken
elsewhere (WWAP, 2009). Such intersectoral dialogue is

WWDR 2015

essential for ‘operationalizing’ the concept of integrated
water resources management.
Policies, legislation and fiscal measures have profound effects
on what happens at district and local levels, most importantly
in setting boundaries for stakeholder involvement in
decision-making, and in clearly articulating their roles and
responsibilities (Moriarty et al., 2007). It is crucially important
that there is good alignment among the many policies,
items of legislation and fiscal measures that influence water
management, service delivery and level of demand. Decisions
outside the water domain, such as those concerning energy
prices, trade agreements, agricultural subsidies and poverty
reduction strategies, often have a major impact on water
supply and demand, and hence on water scarcity.

Food and agriculture

53

8

Energy
WWAP | Richard Connor

8.1 Thirsty energy
A necessity for meeting basic human needs like cooking
and heating, access to a secure source of energy is a
core component of sustainable development. Energy is
tightly interlinked with water. Nearly all forms of energy
require some amount of water as part of their production
process. Thermal power generation and hydropower, which
respectively account for 80% and 15% of global electricity
production, generally require large quantities of water.
Conversely, energy is required for the collection, treatment
and delivery of water. It has been estimated that electricity
accounts for 5% to 30% of the total operating cost of
water and wastewater utilities (World Bank, 2012), but in
some countries such as India and Bangladesh, it can be as
high as 40% (van den Berg and Danilenko, 2011).
Water and energy also provide complementary services at
the household level, where energy is needed for pumping
water from wells (for domestic or agricultural use), and to
produce hot water for cooking, cleaning and hygiene.
8.1.1 Access to water and energy services
Access to water and energy services is necessary to meet
sustainable development goals. The same people who lack
access to improved water and sanitation are also likely to
lack access to electricity and to rely on solid fuel for cooking
(WWAP, 2014). Some 748 million people lack access to
an improved source of drinking water (WHO and UNICEF,
2014a), although the number of people whose right to
water is not satisfied could be as high as 3 billion (Onda
et al., 2012); 2.5 billion people remain without access to
improved sanitation. Over 1.3 billion people lack access to
electricity, and roughly 2.6 billion use solid fuels (mainly
biomass) for cooking (IEA, 2012). Another estimated
400 million people rely on coal for cooking and heating
purposes, which, like wood, charcoal, peat or other biomass,
causes air pollution and has potentially serious health
implications when used in traditional stoves. The close
association between waterborne diseases like diarrhoea
3	One DALY can be thought of as one lost year of "healthy" life. The sum
of these DALYs across the population, or the burden of disease, can be
thought of as a measurement of the gap between current health status
and an ideal health situation where the entire population lives to an
advanced age, free of disease and disability.

54

Chapter 8

caused by lack of safe drinking water and sanitation and
respiratory diseases caused by indoor air pollution is a point
of evidence that it is the same people that are underserved
by water services and electricity. These two combined
courses are also one of the most important causes of
premature death and loss of disability-adjusted life years
(DALYs) 3.
Meeting any sustainable development goal related to health,
and by association to poverty, education, and overall equity,
is therefore contingent on providing access to safe water
and energy services to all, including women and children
who represent a disproportional share of the underserved.
8.1.2 Global energy demand
At the global level, energy demand is projected to increase
by one third by 2035, with demand for electricity expected
to grow by 70% over the same period (IEA, 2013). In terms
of primary energy, the transition away from fossil fuels
is likely to take considerable time to achieve. Demand is
expected to grow for all forms of energy: oil by 13%, coal
by 17% (mainly before 2020), natural gas by 48%, nuclear
by 66% and renewables by 77%. Global power generation
will continue to be dominated by thermal electricity
production from coal, natural gas and nuclear − with coal
remaining the largest source. The share of renewables,
including hydropower (the largest source), is expected to
double, accounting for 30% of all electricity production by
2035 (IEA, 2013).
Because 90% of thermal power is water intensive, the
estimated 70% increase in electricity production by
2035 would translate into a 20% increase in freshwater
withdrawals. Water consumption would increase by 85%,
driven by a shift towards higher efficiency power plants with
more advanced cooling systems (that reduce withdrawals
but increase consumption), and increased production of
biofuel (IEA, 2012).
With the exception of evaporative losses, hydropower is
generally non-consumptive but can require the storage of
large amounts of water in reservoirs, which may or may not
be available for other uses at certain times. The quantity of
water required for thermal power is dependent on the type

Addressing critical developmental challenges

of cooling system. Open-loop cooling requires more water
withdrawals but is less consumptive, whereas closed-loop
systems require less water to operate but nearly all of
this water is consumed.

independent, produces minimal to near-zero GHG emissions,
consumes minimal to near-zero water (depending on the

In terms of water impacts, wind
and solar PV are the most sustainable
forms of power generation

In terms of water impacts, wind and solar PV
are clearly the most sustainable forms of power
generation. However, in most cases, the intermittent
service provided by wind and solar PV needs to be
compensated for by other sources of power that do require
large quantities of water to maintain load balances.

Although increasing in proportion to conventional energy,
renewables remain underdeveloped and under subsidized
in comparison to fossil fuels (WWAP, 2014). Wind and solar
PV account for only 3% of the global power mix. Although
they are expected to grow rapidly over the next few
decades, they are not likely to represent much more than
10% of global electricity generation by 2035 (IEA, 2012).
Geothermal energy for direct thermal uses (district heating
and others) and for power generation is underdeveloped
and its potential is greatly underappreciated. It is climate

system configuration), and its availability is infinite at human
time scales (WWAP, 2014; Williams and Simmons, 2013).

8.2 Challenges: Meeting ever growing
demands
Meeting ever-growing demands for energy will generate
increasing stress on freshwater resources with repercussions
on other users, such as agriculture and industry. Since these
sectors also require energy, there is room to create synergies
as they develop together.
Agriculture accounts for 70% of water withdrawals
worldwide and the food production and supply chain

Geothermal plant in Wairakai (New Zealand)
Photo: Geothermal Resources Council

WWDR 2015

Energy

55

accounts for about 30% of total global energy consumption
(WWAP, 2014). The industrial sector accounts for about
37% of primary global energy use and proportionately uses
significantly less water (UNIDO, 2008). Increasing both
water and energy efficiency in these sectors alone would
generate substantial savings and have positive repercussions,
especially in areas where resources are most scarce. However,
the greatest challenge lies in decreasing the water intensity
of fuel and power generation.
Power generation is dominated by thermal electricity, which
accounts for over 80% of global electricity production.
Maximizing the water use efficiency of power plants will be
a key determinant in achieving a sustainable water future.
This will require limiting the construction and use of the least
efficient coal-fired power plants and widely adopting drycooling or highly efficient closed-loop cooling technologies.

Although increasing in proportion
to conventional energy, renewables
remain underdeveloped and
undersubsidized in comparison
to fossil fuels
Although using alternative water sources, such as sea or
wastewater, can be challenging, they offer a great potential
for reducing demands for freshwater (WWAP, 2014).
Climate change increases the risks and adds to the pressures.
Over the past decade, the increased intensity of droughts,
heatwaves and local water scarcities has interrupted
electricity generation, with serious economic consequences.
At the same time, limitations on energy availability have
constrained the delivery of water services.
There is much room for development of hydropower
installations, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa and SouthEast Asia where access to modern energy services is
lowest and undeveloped technical potential is greatest.
Beyond electricity generation, hydropower reservoirs
may also provide storage for dry spells and support flood
management, irrigation, navigation and recreation. Problems
can arise when releases of water are required for different
purposes at different times throughout the year. Largescale hydroelectric plants around the world have been
criticized for a number of reasons, including damage to the
environment and biodiversity, loss of cultural and historical
sites, and social disruption (Glassman et al., 2011).

56

Chapter 8

Although increasingly competitive, wind and solar PV remain
expensive and therefore require policy support to foster their
deployment in most countries. Hydropower and geothermal
energy have long been economically competitive. In addition
to displacing water intensive thermal power, renewables
offer additional benefits, including enhancing energy security
and diversity, reducing GHG emissions and local air pollution,
contributing to ‘green growth’, and mini-grid or off-grid
solutions which are often less costly than grid extension
to rural areas (IEA, 2013). Support for the development of
renewable energy, which remains far below that for fossil fuels,
will need to increase dramatically before it makes a significant
change in the global energy mix, and by association, in water
demand. Renewables, such as wind, solar PV and geothermal
energy, can make a substantial contribution to energy supply
and freshwater demand at local or national scales, even if they
do remain marginal at the global scale.
Biofuels offer an alternative energy source to fossil fuels.
Their water-related impacts mainly depend on whether they
are produced from rainfed or irrigated feedstock crops. The
water requirements of biofuels produced from irrigated
crops can be much larger than for fossil fuel resources and
can therefore have important implications for local water
availability, whereas rainfed production does not substantially
alter the water cycle. Bioenergy production involving
smallholders can help create jobs, improve livelihoods and
reduce poverty in rural areas. Optimism over biofuels is
tempered by concerns over their economic viability and their
implications for socio-economic development, food security
and environmental sustainability (WWAP, 2014).The outlook
for biofuels remains uncertain as they are highly sensitive to
possible changes in oil and gas prices, as well as government
subsidies and blending mandates, which remain the main
stimulus for biofuels use (IEA, 2013).
Withdrawals and consumption are not the only aspects that
deserve attention in the context of water and environmental
sustainability. Thermal power plants using open-loop
cooling release large volumes of heated water into natural
watercourses, affecting fish and other wildlife. Biofuel
production, like agriculture, can lead to nutrient loading,
affecting the quality of surface water and groundwater. Coal
mining requires large amounts of water, and discharges to
surface water bodies and aquifers may be contaminated. Oil
and gas extraction yields high volumes of water that comes
out of a well along with the oil and gas. This ‘produced
water’, which usually has very high salinity and is difficult to
treat, is often re-injected subsurface.
Uncertainties persist over potential human health and the
long-term environment impacts from the development

Addressing critical developmental challenges

With the possible exception of the most water scarce areas,
availability of (and impacts on) water for various energy
production processes is far too rarely taken into account in
energy policy-making. The two domains have historically
been regulated and managed separately (World Bank, 2013).
This has led to the adoption of unsustainable practices that
jeopardize the availability of water resources and creates risks
to other users and the environment (WWAP, 2014, Box 3.3).

Geothermal cooling towers at Larderello, Tuscany (Italy)
Photo: Simon

of unconventional sources of gas (‘fracking’) and oil (oil/
tar sands), both of which require disproportionally large
quantities of water and pose significant risks to water
quality.

8.3 Responses: A water perspective on energy
In terms of technology, the energy sector is evolving rapidly.
Unconventional oil and gas supplies are being unlocked,
liquefied natural gas is enhancing supply flexibility, larger
shares of variable renewable supply are being integrated
into the power sector and overall energy efficiency is
increasing (IEA, 2013). The drivers of this evolution are
mainly economic (market supply/demand), political (energy
security) and social (providing safe energy to the unserved).
The quest to reduce GHG emissions is leading the
deployment of renewable energy technologies. Wind,
solar PV and geothermal energy have the added benefit
of consuming negligible quantities of water. However, as
renewables become increasingly competitive on their own
merits, carefully designed subsidy schemes will be required
to allow for the multiple benefits of low-carbon energy
sources without placing excessive burdens on those that
cover the additional costs associated with low-carbon
energy production (IEA, 2013).

WWDR 2015

Yet there are pragmatic measures that can be taken to coproduce energy and water services and to exploit the benefits
of synergies. These include combined power and desalination
plants, combined heat and power plants, using alternative
water sources for thermal power plant cooling, and even
energy recovery from sewerage water (WWAP, 2014).
Unfortunately, not every situation offers such opportunities
for synergies. There are situations in which competition for
resources can arise between water and energy objectives,
meaning some degree of trade-off will be necessary.
These trade-offs will need to be managed and contained,
preferably through collaboration and in a coordinated
manner, which in turn requires adequate and compatible
data and information.
Improved cooperation between regional electrical grids
and transboundary basin organizations operating in the
same region, in conjunction with the respective national
governments, could potentially help to better coordinate
water management and the energy sector via hydropower
development. Such cooperation can also support the
sustainable allocation of water to other forms of energy
producers and other water use sectors in the region.
Finally, from a global sustainable development perspective,
the availability (and limitations) of water for energy
production will be a necessary and critical factor in achieving
the SDG on energy, and in meeting its related targets. Even
if electricity production from renewables like wind and solar
PV were to double, there would still be a need to rely on
water-intensive sources of energy to achieve universal access
to affordable, sustainable and reliable energy services and to
support global economic and industrial growth.

Energy

57

Industry
UNIDO | UNIDO Water Management Unit and John Payne, John G. Payne and Associates Ltd

Since the Dublin Statement on Water and Sustainable
Development in 1992, several notable pronouncements
regarding water and sustainability have been issued,
including the MDGs and the Rio+20 Outcome Document,
The Future We Want. But until the 2013 Lima Declaration
(UNIDO, 2013), none had specifically addressed inclusive
and sustainable industrial development.
The Lima Declaration focuses on poverty eradication
through sustainable industrial growth supported by the
‘three dimensions of sustainable development’: economic
growth, social equity and environmental sustainability.
The underlying principle is that ‘industrialization is a
driver of development’ by increasing productivity, jobs
and income towards the eradication of poverty and
providing opportunities such as gender equality and youth
employment (UNIDO, 2013, Clause 2). The Declaration
builds on the MDGs and Rio+20 and moves towards the
post-2015 development agenda. Promoting the sustainable
use of natural resources and reducing environmental impact
are included in the measures. These two measures have
a direct bearing on industrial water use, which is a very
obvious way industry can demonstrate its commitment
to the environment through ‘sustainable production and
industrial resource efficiency’ (UNIDO, 2013, Clause 21).

9.1 Context
Industry is a widely-based sector. This chapter concerns
manufacturing and extractive industry, whereas agriculture
and power generation, themselves large industrial water

users, are discussed separately in Chapters 7 and 8. Key
elements of the water services industry are covered in
Chapters 5 and 6 on WASH and urbanization.
The scope of water-related challenges across the industrial
spectrum is a function of scale. The OECD Environmental
Outlook to 2050 (OECD, 2012b) predicts that global
water demand for manufacturing will increase by 400%
from 2000 to 2050 which is much larger than any other
sector. Most of this increase will be in emerging economies
and developing countries, with implications on water
supply, allocation and quality. Large corporations, often
multinational or global, have made considerable progress in
evaluating and reducing their water use (Box 9.1) and that
of their supply chains. Small and medium-sized enterprises
(SMEs) are faced with similar water challenges on a smaller
scale, but have fewer means and less ability to meet them.

9.1
BOX

9

Mining and water sustainability: Minera
Esperanza, Chile
Minera Esperanza’s operation is located 180 km from
Antofagasta in the Atacama Desert, one of the driest
places in the world, and requires approximately 20
million m3 of water a year to operate. Securing a
long-term supply of useable water and optimizing
its use in the processes were important for mining
development. As a result the plant was designed to use
untreated seawater. Studies in laboratory conditions
and carried out by a pilot project determined optimum
operating conditions for the primary flotation process
using seawater. A supply pipe network was constructed
to transport seawater 145 km from the Pacific coast to
the mine site. Minera Esperanza recruited a significant
part of its staff from neighbouring communities. A
major feature of the community plan was a programme
to enhance the job skills (both for construction and
mine workers) of the local residents. To provide equal
opportunities, Minera Esperanza focused on attracting
women to participate in the scheme and in 2010 had
12% women workers, compared with a country average
for the mining industry of 6%.
Source: Adapted from ICMM (2012).

New construction in Astana (Kazakhstan)
Photo: Shynar Jetpissova/World Bank

58

Chapter 9

Addressing critical developmental challenges

Moreover large companies and SME’s are faced with
different water sustainability issues depending on whether
they operate in developed or developing countries.
In developed countries, the emphasis is mainly on efficiency
measures to conserve water resources that already exist. For
developing countries, however, the priority for industry is
to gain and secure access to water supplies that are reliable,
which is often a challenge in water stressed areas.
Various possibilities for water efficiency are available for
each of these situations depending on the progress of
industrial development and the business climate. Sustainable
industry may be achieved by retrofitting old facilities
and plants, or building new ones specifically designed
for efficiency and, in some locations, interlinked in ecoindustrial parks (Box 9.2).

BOX

9.2

The shape and form of industry’s plans and actions and
the degree to which they are executed are conditioned by
prevailing national and local regulatory regimes as well as
by certain trade- and investment-protection agreements.
Collisions of policy with regard to water in different sectors,
for example the water-energy nexus, lead to functional
trade-offs in water use.

9.2 Challenges
Balancing the requirements of sustainability against the
conventional view of industrial mass production creates a
number of conundrums for industry. This stand-off can only
be resolved by effecting trade-offs and changing paradigms.
Water use is central to these dilemmas.
On the largest scale, the challenge of globalization is
how to spread the benefits of worldwide industrialization

Water and wastewater in eco-industrial parks
Industrial parks have existed for some time in both developing and developed countries. Most are created by formal planning
processes, but some have grown organically. They provide competitive advantages for the businesses within them and also
social, economic and environmental benefits beyond the confines. Usually, industrial parks separate a collection of factory
premises from domestic habitation and other activities. However, this does not apply universally. For example, the ChinaSingapore Suzhou Industrial Park in China combines over 60 Fortune 500 companies with a current residential population of
600,000 people.
Eco-industrial parks ensure effective management of water and effluents together with liquid and solid materials recovery.
They:
• permit ‘tailored’ water supply, effluent collection and treatment that maximizes the use and reuse of available water and
other materials;
• aid the optimization of processes to reduce carbon footprints and ensure compliance with regulations: and
• enable the whole water cycle to be linked with successive steps in the value chain of the processes and products of the
industries in the park.
A good example is the Shanghai Chemical Industrial Park, which groups chemical companies working in chlorine chemistry
and has an integrated water and wastewater and solid waste services operator, Sinofrench.
At the conception stage, industrial parks bring the full benefits of specialized design, pooling best available technology,
risk reduction and risk sharing in ways that optimise future technical performance and provide security for investors. At the
operational stage, they provide the benefits of a committed and specialized operator with high levels of operation and
management skills, rigorous quality control procedures backed by on-site laboratories and often with an additional R&D
facility.
In some cases, the provision of specialized effluent treatment to preserve a country’s specialized industry has been the reason
for creating a park. The Tuzla Organized Leather Industrial Zone Project in Istanbul is an example. In other cases, by integrating
water and wastewater challenges it has been possible to ensure continuity of historic industry groupings threatened with
closure on environmental protection grounds such as Bran Sands on Teesside in the U.K. and Villers-Saint-Paul in France.
Contributed by AquaFed. For more information about the parks, see the online sources for SIPAC (www.sipac.gov.cn/english/), SCIP (www.scip.com.
cn/en/), Tuzla (www.ideriosb.org.tr/hizmetler/aritma), Bran Sands (nwl.co.uk/business/water-and-waste-water-management.aspx) and Villers-SaintPaul (www.suezenvironnement-media.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/02/12.-Villers.pdf )

WWDR 2015

Industry

59

equitably and without unsustainable impacts on water and
other natural resources. While UN-Water has proposed a
‘dedicated global goal for water’ with targets designed to be
tailored to the contexts and priorities of each country, the
reality of national and local politics in regulating water, as
well as geography, will involve compromises (WWAP, 2014).
Industry’s priority is to maximize production rather than
water efficiency and conservation. Even in the case of
improved water efficiency there may be a rebound effect
(Ercin and Hoekstra, 2012) where the water savings
obtained are reinvested to increase production. Therefore,
though the process may be more efficient, total water use
may not decrease. In parallel, industry seeks to be either
self-supplied or to obtain water from public supplies at
the lowest price possible, neither of which encourages
water efficiency, though the value of water to industry may
be high. Moreover, cost–benefit drives water efficiency
as it relates to maximizing company profit rather than
optimizing water use. Within industries, water hotspots
can be identified that present the highest risks and highest
opportunities (Figure 9.1).

Directly related to the debate over water efficiency are
predicaments arising from the introduction of new water
technology. There are many good ideas and innovative

Examples of water hotspots in selected industries

Figure

9.1

The business case for water efficiency frequently requires a
financial trade-off. The common problem is the internal rate
of return. Investment in efficient water treatment technology
or cooling processes may have longer payback periods than
the immediate returns of alternative short-term investment
in production. Moreover, low (or non-existent) water prices
do not encourage investment in water efficiency, which may
have other drivers such as water allocation or permitting.
On the upside, in the long term, investment in sustainable
technology provides extended savings. Conversely, it may be
less expensive to pay the fine for pollution than to pay for
better water treatment. Managers have to see and make the
business case to offset shareholder and stakeholder pressure.
However, it is incumbent upon the political and legal
authorities to develop appropriate incentives for industries
(standards, permissions, prohibitions, fines, charges, etc.)
with objectives to align business decisions with the public
interest.

Exploration

Upstream
oil & gas

• Groundwater
environmental
safety

Supply chain

Assembled
products

Pharmaceuticals

• R
 aw materials
environmental records
and availability
• Supply chain
resilience to future
reduced water
availability

Development

Operations

Distribution
(Export)

 ater efficiency and
•W
environmental safety
in asset design and
construction
• Groundwater
environmental
safety

• Reduction or better
management of
produced water
• Groundwater
environmental
safety

• Safety of the “water
we cross” (river
crossing, internal
water lanes, sealanes
and their fragile
environments)

Operations
• Improvement in
water efficiency
of manufacturing
plants

Products
• Sell water
management
benefits of products
– understand where
this is a buying
factor

Distribution
• Safety of the “water
we cross” (internal
water lanes, sea-lanes
and their fragile
environments)

• “ License to operate” through engagement with
communities and government:
- in the vicinity of manufacturing operations
- where key raw materials originate
• Disposal of COD-rich waters and connections
with other industries

Source: Place et al. (2012, Table 4, p. 64). Reproduced with the permission of Arthur D. Little.

60

Chapter 9

Addressing critical developmental challenges

approaches. There are even technological solutions
developed for niche applications, such as removal of specific
contaminants, which may struggle for acceptance outside
the mainstream issues of more effective and efficient
overall water treatment. But it can be difficult bringing new
technology from concept to laboratory to pilot scale and
to full commercial implementation. Investors with venture
capital are looking for the best bets and industrial managers
are looking for reliability and track record; neither of these
views is conducive to moving innovation forward quickly.
Thoughtful policy and regulation combining compliance
and incentives may provide a balance between supporting
the needs of industry versus overall economic results, social
benefits and the environment (see WWAP, 2015, Chapter
6, Case study “Water recycling in Singapore”). Additionally,
the application of sustainable measures requires assistance,
education and finance. In this respect, agencies such as
UNIDO, can act as intermediaries and provide a necessary
stimulus, particularly in transitional and developing
economies.

9.3 Responses
Actions to improve water sustainability in industry commonly
originate from one of two directions. First, top-down
approaches are those initiated by government at various
levels. They include command-and-control (carrot and stick)
methods of policy, regulation, enforcement and incentives.
Manufacturing as a point source of pollution is a good
target. In the past, these methods focused on technology
and performance ignoring preventive approaches and
resource efficiency (UNEP, 2011). Second, bottom-up

BOX

9.3

approaches come from industry as it reacts to government
approaches, a company’s own internal policies, customer
demand and public pressure. The industry approach is more
hands-on and applied, and often dependent on technology
and engineering to deliver results and meet needs.
Corporate and managerial buy-in is necessary to enable
industry to produce the deliverables.

It may be less expensive to pay
the fine for pollution than to pay
for better treatment
Intersecting these top-down and bottom-up actions are
initiatives from intergovernmental agencies which, acting
as intermediaries, provide guidance, targets and expert
advice (Box 9.3). Other players include nongovernmental
organizations and academia that contribute certain
specialties at various levels.
9.3.1 Governance directions
Policy for sustainable industry has four main instruments
(UNEP, 2011), which are closely paralleled in the Lima
Declaration:
Regulatory and control mechanisms usually target water
abstractions and effluent discharges, and include legislation,
standards and licensing. On the upside, they can promote

United Nations post-2015 global goal for water and what it means for industry
The United Nations has proposed a set of potential targets and indicators for a global goal for water sustainability (Chapter 16)
which filter down to national levels. As these targets dovetail with the intent of the Lima Declaration, it can be foreseen that
they may lead to general guidelines for industry. In particular, two of the targets have direct relevance to industry as they relate
to quantity and quality of water addressing complexities in the SDGs of the post-2015 development agenda.
Target B deals with improving the sustainable use and development of water resources. Actions are called for to increase water
productivity and reduce waste from inefficient industrial processes. A core indicator is the change in industrial GDP per industrial
withdrawals. The aim is the sustainable management of the resource to balance social, economic and environmental needs.
Target D concerns wastewater and pollution. Protection of water quality is seen as a pre-condition to sustainable
development. With regard to industry, the main elements within the target are reductions in untreated industrial wastewater
and increases in safe reuse of wastewater. The focus is on both point sources and diffuse (non-point) sources of pollution.
One indicator references the proportion of industrial wastewater not collected in public systems that is treated to national
standards; another the proportion of flows discharged by industrial wastewater treatment plants that is safely reused.
Source: UN-Water (2014).

WWDR 2015

Industry

61

Economic or market-based instruments can include
monetary penalties for non-compliance and charges for
water withdrawals and wastewater discharge. To promote
integrated water resources management (IWRM), prices
can be influenced through taxes and royalties and quantity
may be regulated through tradable permit systems for water
which currently exist in only a handful of countries. Credit
and trading schemes can be introduced in developing
countries through industry initiatives and projects (UNEP,
2011). In such countries, it may be possible to apply water
sustainability approaches to specific industry sectors in a
similar way to those proposed for climate action. Similarly,
such sector approaches would run the risk of targeting high
polluters, as opposed to the full value chains of supply and
demand involving these and other industries.
Fiscal instruments and incentives are comprised of public
expenditure, subsidies and taxation that can affect cost–
benefit analyses in industry and change the BAU status.
Taxation can drive technology change and conversely tax
exemptions can apply to specific products that are more
water efficient and tax revenues directed to the same
end. There is an increasing trend, particularly in developed
countries, to abolish subsidies that distort the price of water
below its full cost. It is recognized that inefficiencies in
water use are the result of users, including industry, who
do not pay the full cost (WBCSD, 2012). Funds of various
sorts are available to support sustainable manufacturing
and environmental subsidies can encourage innovative
water technology. SMEs with limited access to commercial
financing could receive preferential loans funded by
environmental taxes.
Voluntary action, information and capacity-building
based on information instruments, such as product data and
labelling reporting, which could have a water efficiency or
pollution component. Eco-labelling and consumer awareness
can reflect water use and pollution. Support programmes
aimed at SMEs could improve resource efficiency and
recycling.
9.3.2 Industry reaction
The efforts of government need a corresponding response
reaction from industry to effect improvements in water use
and efficiency (UNEP, 2011).

62

Chapter 9

For the application and success of sustainable water
initiatives they must be referenced to baseline evaluations. A
Water Footprint Assessment (WFA) accounts for the direct
and indirect use of freshwater in industry (UNEP, 2012).
WFAs apply to the supply chain as well as to the production
process (Figure 10.2). Most companies have a supply chain
water footprint much larger than their operational one,
and it may be more cost-effective to shift investment in
sustainability in that direction (Hoekstra et al., 2011). More
than 80% to 90% of a company’s footprint, and most of its
water risks, may be beyond its direct operations (Place et al.,
2012). The analysis may also include water use downstream
from where the product was produced then purchased
or used to the point of its disposal. Water footprinting

9.2
Figure

best available techniques/technology (BAT) and the polluterpays principle (PPP), which encourages manufacturers to
recycle. On the downside, the standards may not keep up
with technological progress, yet industry requires predictable
regulation to enable long-term planning and investment in
order to accommodate change.

Relative water footprints of various
industry sectors
Raw
Product
material
Direct
use/end
production Suppliers operations of life
Apparel
High-tech/
Electronics
Beverage

Food
Biotech/
Pharma
Forest
products
Metals/
Mining
Electric
power/
Energy
Note: Water drops indicate the value chain segments that have
relatively high blue, green and grey water footprint intensities.
The water footprint is an indicator of water use that looks at both
direct and indirect water use of a consumer or producer. The
water footprint of an individual, community or business is defined
as the total volume of freshwater that is used to produce the
goods and services consumed by the individual or community or
produced by the business.
Source: Morrison et al. (2009, Table 3, p. 20).

Addressing critical developmental challenges

also changes the concept of water use to incorporate
consumptive water use with withdrawals, and the focus
from complying with discharge standards to managing
the grey water footprint from an ecosystem perspective
(UNEP, 2012). Notwithstanding, the WFA methodology
has shortcomings and its relevance is being questioned in
different situations.

9.3

Water stewardship strategy for industry

Figure

Water stewardship concerns how a company performs and
behaves in terms of its operations and supply chains (WWF/

Key
phases

Measure footprint/
engage stakeholders

• Inventory of current
program and projects
Key
programmes

•W
 ater footprint – Enterprise
wide and supply chain
• Water footprint – Products
• Stakeholder mapping

Ongoing
process

DEG KFW Bankengruppe, 2011). Stewardship means being
proactive in conservation, restoration and management at
the watershed level and balancing internal and external
action. Communication with other stakeholders in the same
watershed and engagement in forums is essential. A threephase water stewardship strategy is shown in Figure 9.3.
At the plant level, approaches include cleaner production
and zero discharge and associated technologies, life-cycle
management and eco-design. At the industry level, there
are sustainability initiatives for supply chains and industrial

Evaluate risks/
opportunities

Execute
programmes

• Map risks – Direct and indirect

• Reduce footprint and offset

• Alignment with other
resource issues

•W
 ater innovation and
technology investment

• Map water opportunities
and value

• Brand and reputations
management

• Prioritize issues and
establish goals

• R
 eporting, disclosure,
governance, and policy
engagement

Stakeholder/comunity/employee engagement
An effective water stewardship strategy has three key phases and programmes to support the actions
of each phase. It is essential to keep stakeholders, local communities, and employees engaged in the
stewardship activities across all phases.

Source: Deloitte (2012, Fig. 1) and Sarni (2011).

UNIDO’s Green Industry Initiative

Table

9.1

Greening of industries
Helping enterprises improve resource productivity and
environmental performance

Creating new green industries
Establishing new operations delivering environmental
goods and services

•	 Efficient use of materials, energy and water
•	 Reduction of wastes and emissions
•	Safe and responsible management of chemicals,
renewable raw materials
•	 Phasing out toxic substances
•	 Substituting fossil fuels with renewable energy sources
•	 Product and process redesign, Green Chemistry

•	
•	
•	
•	
•	

Reduce, reuse and recycle (3R) industries
Pollution control technology and equipment
Renewable and energy-efficient technologies
Waste management and resource recovery
Environmental advisory and analytical services

Source: UNIDO (2014).

WWDR 2015

Industry

63

clusters in economic zones to maximize the use of available
water resources and reuse of wastewater. These are moves
towards closed-cycle manufacturing.
9.3.3 UNIDO as a catalyst: the Green Industry Initiative
In concert with government and industry initiatives, UNIDO
has a green industry policy in line with the Lima Declaration
(UNIDO, 2011a). In addition, UNIDO is actively promoting a
Green Industry initiative (Table 9.1) that is directly applicable
to water efficiency (UNIDO, 2011b).

64

Chapter 9

.Business partnerships are key to the development of green
industry, and include social investments, philanthropic,
multi-stakeholder and transformational partnerships (UNIDO,
2014). The purpose is to capture the core strengths of the
private sector and to change business operations in line
with sustainability goals. In putting this policy into action,
UNIDO has set up National Cleaner Production Centres in a
number of countries. It uses its TEST methodology (Transfer
of Environmentally Sound Technology) to demonstrate that
economic benefits can accrue from sustainable and cleaner
production (UNIDO, 2014).

Addressing critical developmental challenges

Adapting to climate variability and change
UNESCO-IHP and WMO | Contributors: Wouter Buytaert, Anil Mishra, Siegfried Demuth, Blanca Jiménez Cisneros,
Bruce Stewart and Claudio Caponi

10.1 Context
The essence of sustainable freshwater resources
management is balancing freshwater supplies with demands
and uses in a manner that ensures water availability
(quantity and quality) for the present and the future.
Climate variability and change may affect both sides of the
balance, and thus add to the challenges (IPCC, 2014).
Climate change will affect the natural water balance and
water availability in several ways: changes in spatiotemporal
patterns and variability of precipitation affect the
replenishment of water resources. Increases in temperature
cause higher evaporation from open surfaces and soils, and
increased transpiration by vegetation, potentially reducing
water availability. Water quality will be affected (Hipsey
and Arheimer, 2013), for instance as a result of seawater
intrusion in coastal aquifers, faster dissolved oxygen
depletion because of higher water temperatures, or higher
content of pollutants that flow into water bodies following
extreme rain events (IPCC, 2014). Each of these impacts
has implications for ecosystems, including biodiversity and
ecosystem services.
Although the fundamental physics behind these processes
are rather straightforward, the specific impacts of climate
change on local water resources are difficult to determine.
One reason is that of scale. Water resources within a river
basin are determined by local and regional weather patterns
and water uses, which are often poorly resolved by global
climate models, if at all considered (Todd et al., 2011).
The other factor concerns weather and climate patterns,
and anthropogenic and non-anthropogenic changes therein,
affecting hydrological processes in complex ways, which
include secondary effects, interactions and feedbacks
(Milly et al., 2010). For example, changes in precipitation
and temperature may induce shifts in natural vegetation
patterns, which will not only affect transpiration, but also
interception of precipitation and soil moisture. Many other
human activities, such as deforestation and other land-use
changes, soil degradation, withdrawals for agricultural and
industrial use, and water contamination have a profound
and often negative impact on the availability and quality of
water resources.

WWDR 2015

10

Lastly, the spatial patterns of water demand are highly
variable and changing. Population growth and elevated
living standards are creating a continuous increase in
demand for water in many developing countries. The
worldwide trend of urbanization increases the related
water demand of cities (see Chapter 6), which may increase
pressure on nearby water sources, as well as the need for
costly water transport.
Many tools exist to deal with these issues. Statistical and
dynamic methods can be used to downscale climate model
outputs to the river basin scale. Computer-based simulation
models are available also for water quantity and quality
modelling. Nonetheless, the complex relations between
climate change, ecosystem response, water quality, water
consumption patterns and policy actions are not always fully
understood, and models that do take account of several
of these aspects cannot be easily coupled. The resulting
uncertainties are often so high that the outputs from models
using downscaling methods for water resources availability
have little, if any, value for decision-making necessary for
sustainable development, such as where to locate or relocate new agricultural, residential or industrial development
in areas safely out of flood zones yet with adequate water
supplies to meet anticipated near- and long-term future
needs.

10.2 Challenges
Some climate-induced changes may lead to positive
outcomes for local and regional water resources. A
temperature increase may make water-rich high-latitude
regions and mountain areas potentially more liveable.
Increases in precipitation may alleviate water scarcity
in some arid and semi-arid regions. Putting proper
infrastructure in place, for instance to store or reclaim water,
may help translate these changes to actual positive local
impacts. However, the negative impacts of climate change
on freshwater systems will most likely outweigh its benefits.
Current projections show that freshwater-related risks
increase significantly with increasing GHG emissions. The
latter are leading to an exacerbated competition for water
among all uses and users, affecting regional water, energy
and food securities (IPCC, 2014). Combined with an

Adapting to climate variability and change

65

increasing water demand, this will create huge challenges
for water resources management.
There is a wide spectrum of threats to sustainable water
resources management related to climate change. In
coastal regions, including parts of Bangladesh and much
of South-East Asia, sea level rise threatens salinization of

Climate change will affect the
natural water balance and water
availability in several ways: changes
in spatiotemporal patterns and
variability of precipitation affect the
replenishment of water resources
coastal aquifers, with potential effects on drinking water
sources and coastal ecosystems (see WWAP, 2015, Chapter
5, Case study “Challenges to freshwater security in the
Pacific SIDS: focus on saltwater intrusion in Samoa”). Many
of the biggest and fastest growing megacities are located
in coastal areas, and are facing a combination of threats
emerging from increasing flood risk and degradation of
essential ecosystem services (World Bank, 2010c; Hallegatte
et al., 2013). On the other side of the topographical
spectrum, tropical and subtropical mountain regions are

traditionally poverty pockets because of their physically
harsh environmental conditions. Melting glaciers, drying
wetlands, deforestation and soil erosion may disrupt
mountain ecosystem services hence threatening socioeconomic development and widening the development
gap with the surrounding lowlands (Viviroli et al., 2011).
The cryosphere, where water is frozen, provides us with
direct, visual evidence of temperature changes and is an
important contributor to water supplies in many countries.
Within populations, vulnerability is highly variable. But it is
clear that climate change will tend to exacerbate existing
equality patterns, including gender inequality. Women are
often disproportionately affected by climate-change related
natural disasters such as floods and droughts.
In addition to the impacts of climate change, there are often
universal constraints to the development of adaptation
actions due to data scarcity, poor predictive capacity of
socio-economic and climate models, inadequate decision
support mechanisms and limited institutional capacity.
Regarding data, the lack of availability and access
is well known (see Section 1.4.4). The global in situ
hydrometeorological network has been in decline since
the 1980s, and large regions, mainly in the tropics and
subtropics, currently have insufficient rain gauge density and
in some instances do not provide good quality data (WMO,
2009). Hydrometeorological monitoring also tends to be
concentrated in highly populated regions and economic
backbones. While this makes sense from an operational
perspective, it limits the monitoring and development of
untapped resources and contributes to widening the poverty
gap. New data sources, especially satellite observations,
hold great promise to alleviate the problem of data scarcity
for certain hydrological processes such as precipitation and
evapotranspiration. The best results are often obtained by
merging in-situ data with remotely sensed data sources.
However, in some cases, the collection of in situ data is
costly and requires highly- trained personnel to collect and
verify data, especially for groundwater assessment and water
quality measurement (Hipsey and Arheimer, 2013).
This scarcity of good quality and relevant data impacts the
performance of socio-economic, hydrological and climate
models, and thus limits their usefulness and credibility in
supporting decision-making and policy formulation. From
predicting the impact of localized land-use changes to global
climate projections, models provide quantitative estimates of
the potential impact of different scenarios, using tools such
as sensitivity analyses. As such, they can help weigh the
benefits and costs of different policy options and adaptation
or adaptation/mitigation scenarios. But models of the water

Emigrant Lake during the 2014 drought in Oregon (United States)
Photo: Al Case

66

Chapter 10

Addressing critical developmental challenges

cycle are still plagued by large uncertainties if not properly
calibrated with field data, especially in non-stationary
conditions such as those produced by climate change (Beven,
2008). There is a need to quantify these uncertainties, and
interpret them in a context of managing future risks as well
as benefits, to support the policy-making process (Brugnach
et al., 2008).
Current institutional aspects of water resources
management also often form bottlenecks for effective
climate adaptation. For instance, inadequately described
or enforced water rights may hinder improved access to
water for poor and other vulnerable communities in many
developing regions. Also, despite the increasing adoption of
integrated water resources management (IWRM) concepts,
political levels of decision-making are still often misaligned
with the natural boundaries of water resources. This is
particularly the case for transboundary river basins and
groundwater aquifers.
Lastly, current disaster response and prevention
management strategies are often still insufficiently
integrated, and focus on individual disasters (e.g. floods
or droughts) rather than pursuing a holistic, sustainable
development and resilience-based approach.

10.3 Responses and opportunities
10.3.1 Adaptive management
Adaptation decisions need to be taken now. An adaptive
approach focusing on robust strategies and low regret
or no-regret solutions4 is a way to deal with the current
uncertainties in climate impact projections (Heltberg et al.,
2009).
Adaptive water management aims to move away from a
’predict-and-control’ paradigm, to one of building resilient
communities. Strategies under this outdated paradigm
include irreversible decisions, costly long-term infrastructure
developments, and fixed management strategies. They do
not allow for adjustment and learning. Instead, adaptive
management accepts that irreducible uncertainties exist
about future climate change, and therefore champions an
approach based upon flexibility, robustness and resilience,
and continuous learning. It aims at creating capacity to
respond effectively to changing and uncertain conditions,
using solutions that are robust under the full range of
possible future climate scenarios (Pahl-Wostl, 2007).

4	No-regret interventions are defined as strategies that yield benefits
regardless of future trends in climate scenarios.

WWDR 2015

This approach is particularly useful in areas most vulnerable
to climate change, such as low-lying deltas and other coastal
areas, fragile mountainous areas and arid and semi-arid
regions. For instance, the Himalayas and the Andes have a
history of intensive land use, with cultivation and grazing on
steep slopes, large-scale deforestation and soil degradation.
These processes affect water resources negatively in terms of
both quantity and quality. Soil compaction favours surface
runoff, decreasing the recharge of groundwater aquifers and
accelerating the hydrological response and increasing the
risk for both floods and droughts. When these impacts are
combined with increasing populations in mountainous areas,
the limits of sustainability may be exceeded in the near
future. The interactions between climate change and these
issues (e.g. soil compaction through intensive land use) may
affect the speed and magnitude, but not the fundamental
trend of the impacts. Hence, low-regret strategies (Jiménez
Cisneros et al., 2014), such as protecting ecosystems that
provide clear benefits to water supply, enhancing supplies
via retention and recharge dams in small water catchments,
and reducing distribution losses and water requirements,
are obvious pathways towards increased sustainability and
resilient communities.
10.3.2 Knowledge generation for policy formulation
Amid the variety of water resources adaptation issues,
enhanced monitoring and evaluation of weather and climate
are clearly priorities. There is often a clear inverse relation
between data availability and water resources vulnerability,
highlighting the need for identifying focus areas that
combine a high fragility with a high complexity of the
natural environment and low data availability. Examples of
such regions are mountains and arid and semi-arid regions
in low-income countries, as well as river and groundwater
systems that provide ecosystem services to fast-growing
megacities. Investments should focus on strengthening
traditional monitoring networks (i.e. in situ, based on robust,
low cost, easy to maintain technology) because of their
proven track record of generating data and information to
support scientific knowledge generation.
At the same time, exploration and support for new forms
of data collection would help build the knowledge base
and broaden the understanding of trends. Remote sensing
technologies have a high initial cost but can provide
observational data in traditionally data-scarce areas. The
advent of cheap electronics, networking technology
and personal devices including widespread access to
mobile phone services, and cloud-computing based data
analytics, also enable the installation of distributed sensor
networks, often in a way that involves local actors in the
data collection and knowledge generation process. Such

Adapting to climate variability and change

67

citizen science (Gura, 2013) has the added benefit of
bringing generators and users of knowledge closer together.
Nonetheless, the validation and tailoring of the data for
water management decision-making systems is still an
outstanding challenge to be met.
There is also a challenge to collect data and improve
understanding of interactions and feedbacks between
the water cycle and other natural and human processes,
such as the carbon cycle, population growth, food
production, energy consumption and ecosystem services.
Data analysis and simulation methods still have a long
way to go to enable the formulation and evaluation of
adaptation practices. Translating policy options into model
parameterizations is in itself a very uncertain and difficult
process, which may be complicated further by model
uncertainties and deficiencies.
Capacity-building of technicians, water managers and
policy makers is another priority to optimize the creation of
actionable knowledge. The exploitation of new data sources,
better models and more powerful data analysis methods, as
well as the design of adaptive management strategies, will
require new skills and continuous education. Again, focused
attention on data-sparse and vulnerable and deprived areas
would greatly help to bridge the traditional knowledge
divide.
Communication of available environmental and socioeconomic observations, insights and predictions, with
their uncertainties, is critical to the implementation of
successful policies. Integrating environmental and socioeconomic knowledge and its limits into policy formulation
is a challenge, in which improved communication and

68

Chapter 10

interaction between actors is crucial. New technologies for
visualization and communication of data and simulations
(infographics) are emerging (Spiegelhalter et al., 2011),
which allow for two-way interaction and interactive scenario
analysis. Climate information and services, including data,
diagnostics, assessments, monitoring, predictions and
projections that users need for a broad range of climatesensitive decisions at different levels are required at national
and local scales. There is a need for the implementation of
a process of knowledge co-generation, in which science
listens and reacts to the needs of decision-makers, who
in turn try to understand the limits of science and accept
to integrate its outcomes in the decision-making process
(e.g. Buytaert et al., 2012). This will provide a much better
support for adaptive governance of water resources, in
addition to information from continuous monitoring and the
build-in ability to flexibly change the course of adaptation.
Lastly, institutional development holds promise for
improving climate change adaptation. In particular, the
strong interaction of climate change with other natural
and socio-economic change highlights the need for a more
integrated approach, for instance by merging sustainable
development with disaster response and humanitarian aid.
Creating forums of water users, public authorities and other
relevant stakeholders at the basin scale could achieve a
more inclusive approach to consultation, coordination and
efficient decision-making. Together with transparent criteria
and priorities for water allocation and planning, especially
under conditions of scarcity, these are potential shortterm solutions to increase environmental sustainability and
societal resilience, complementing enhanced monitoring
and scientific knowledge generation as longer-term
objectives.

Addressing critical developmental challenges

PART 3
Regions
Chapters
11. Europe and North America – 12. Asia and the Pacific
13. The Arab region – 14. Latin America and the Caribbean
15. Africa

Walking through the Potato Park in Pisaq, Cusco (Peru)
Photo: Manon Koningstein (CIAT)
WWDR 2015

Chapter title

69

The challenges, interlinkages and opportunities described throughout the previous chapters of this
report are presented from a global perspective. However, the challenges at the interface of water
and sustainable development can vary considerably from one region to another. Part 3 of the report
examines the challenges and opportunities most relevant to specific regions of the world.
The five regional chapters cover Europe and North America, Asia and the Pacific, the Arab region,
Latin America and the Caribbean, and Africa. The delineation of the five regions follows the regional
division of the United Nations regional economic commissions (UNECE, UNESCAP, UNESCWA,
UNECLAC and UNECA) maps of the Member States can be found in the fourth edition of the WWDR
(WWAP, 2012). For the Arab region and Africa chapters, it was decided that all the Arab countries
would be reported on in the Arab region chapter rather than having some of them included in the
Africa chapter.

70

REGIONS

Europe and North America
UNECE | Annukka Lipponen and Nicholas Bonvoisin

Many countries in the UNECE region have high levels of
economic development and per capita resource use, which
exert increasing pressure on natural resources. At the
same time, poverty is widespread in the eastern part of
the pan-European region (South-Eastern Europe, Eastern
Europe, the Caucasus and Central Asia), where economic
development is a priority. In both cases, the main challenges
are increasing resource use efficiency, reducing waste,
influencing consumption patterns and choosing appropriate
technologies. There is friction between water use sectors
in many basins in the region (UNECE, 2011). The challenge
is to look beyond water to other sectors and address the
need for more integration and coherence of sectoral policies.
Reconciling different water uses at the basin level and
improving policy coherence nationally and across borders
will be priorities for many years to come.
Management of the nitrogen cycle has been identified as a
major challenge across most of the region, and improving
the handling of nutrients in agriculture plays a key role
in addressing the related problems. Diffuse agricultural

11

pollution poses significant pressure on 38% of the European
Union’s (EU) water bodies. The EU water blueprint also
identifies the need to tackle diffuse pollution using different
approaches to accommodate the wide range of agricultural
systems. The ‘greening’ of agriculture, which also includes
improving water use efficiency in agriculture (especially in
South-Eastern Europe, Eastern Europe, the Caucasus and
Central Asia) while taking account of the potential impacts
of climate change is therefore the second key priority for the
region’s sustainability.

11.1 Coordination between users
Well-functioning coordination at different levels – from
national to river basin and sub-basin – and joint planning
involving different interests are important for sustainable
management of water resources. In Eastern Europe,
the Caucasus and Central Asia (EECCA), intersectoral
coordination mechanisms for water resource use have been
established in Armenia, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Ukraine,
and are being established in Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan
(UNECE/OECD, 2014). In this sub-region, regular national

Windmill farm in Mid-Michigan (United States)
Photo: Mike Boening Photography

WWDR 2015

Europe and North America

71

meetings under the European Union Water Initiative
National Policy Dialogues provide for intersectoral exchange
on major water policy developments (UNECE, 2013). A
number of policy packages have been adopted as a result of
such intersectoral consultation. In Turkmenistan, for example,
an inter-ministerial expert group drafted a new National

Well-functioning coordination at
different levels – from national to
river basin and sub-basin – and joint
planning involving different interests
are important for sustainable
management of water resources
Water Code in line with the UNECE Water Convention5 and
principles of IWRM (EU, OECD and UNECE, 2014).
Incompatible sectoral objectives, unintended consequences
of resource management and trade-offs between sectors
may result in friction and possibly conflict. This is especially
the case in transboundary settings, where intersectoral
coordination and steps to address negative intersectoral
impacts or capitalize on potential synergies between
sectors are even more challenging. An assessment of the
water-food-energy-ecosystems nexus is being carried out
in selected transboundary river basins under the UNECE
Water Convention, in close cooperation with national
administrations, to strengthen the basis for decision-making
through knowledge, dialogue and joint identification of
solutions. Solutions might include adjustments to policies,
management and coordination measures, and operation of
infrastructure. In the Alazani/Ganikh River basin, shared by
Azerbaijan and Georgia, deforestation caused by extraction
of biomass for fuel results in the degradation of ecosystems
and their services, as well as aggravation of sedimentation.
Energy policy and notably gasification and electrification
of rural areas were identified in a nexus assessment as
potential tools in mitigating the situation (UNECE, 2014).

5	Convention on the Protection and Use of Transboundary Watercourses
and International Lakes (1992). The amendments to Articles 25 and 26
entered into force on 6 February 2013, turning the Convention into a legal
framework for transboundary water cooperation open for accession by
countries outside the UNECE region.
6	Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin (2002), Protocol on
Navigation Regime (2002) Protocol on the Prevention of Water Pollution
caused by Navigation (2009), Protocol on Flood Protection (2010).

72

Chapter 11

An institutional and legal framework is needed to provide
a basis for addressing intersectoral issues (Beisheim,
2013). Transboundary cooperation in the Sava River basin,
underpinned by the basin’s framework agreement6 and
the International Sava River Basin Commission, covers
navigation, sustainable water management, river tourism
and hazards. This permanent mechanism provides a
platform for transboundary coordination of developing joint/
integrated plans for the basin. The International Commission
for the Protection of the Danube River, in cooperation with
the Sava River Basin Commission and the Danube Navigation
Commission, coordinated a process of intensive, crosssectoral consensus-building between stakeholders, which
led to the adoption of the Joint Statement on Guiding
Principles for the Development of Inland Navigation and
Environmental Protection in the Danube River Basin (ICPDR/
SRBC, 2007).
Formalized cooperation involving different users of water
resources can help to better inform decisions and reduce
friction between different sectoral objectives. However,
reaching effective and balanced intersectoral governance
is complex, and solutions have a high degree of context
specificity. The case of the Rhone River demonstrates that
even in the context of increased cooperation between actors,
the consideration of governance at the river basin scale
and the inclusion of a growing number of water users, the
governance challenge is such that agreements adopted in
a sectoral perspective do not guarantee more integrated
and coherent management of a river (Bréthaut and Pflieger,
2013).

11.2 ‘Greening’ agricultural practices
Many governments in the UNECE region have started to
reorient their policies to take into account the environmental
consequences of food and agriculture production and
consumption. In the pursuit of green growth strategies,
the OECD (2011) has compiled examples of green growth
policies for agriculture, including:
• Environmental regulations and standards, e.g. for
controlling agro-chemical use;
• Support measures targeting environmental outcomes
or environment-friendly production practices and public
investments in green technologies; and
• A
 pplication of economic instruments such as charges on
use of environmentally-damaging inputs.
Pressures are also mounting to modernize agriculture in
Central Asia, where some gradual crop diversification is
observed and efforts are being made to reduce water losses
in the extensive and ageing infrastructure. In Kazakhstan,

REGIONS

the Presidential Decree on Transition to Green Economy
(Government of Kazakhstan, 2014a) sets ambitious
targets for improving water efficiency in different uses,
including agriculture, and these are echoed in the new
State Programme on the Management of Water Resources
(Government of Kazakhstan, 2014b).

encouraged farmers to switch to high-efficiency irrigation
systems by providing subsidies and long-term, low-interest
loans. This policy has resulted in a major change in irrigation
behaviour and irrigation efficiency (EEA, 2009). However,
improved irrigation efficiency may lead to the expansion of
irrigated area instead of increased flows in rivers.7

The reform of the EU Common Agricultural Policy (CAP)
for the post-2013 period may significantly alter water
use in agriculture in the EU. Albeit heavily debated, the
introduction of a ‘greening payment’ – where 30% of
the available national agricultural subsidy is linked to the
provision of certain sustainable farming practices, such
as permanent grassland and crop diversification – would
mean that a significant share of the subsidy would be linked
to rewarding farmers for the provision of environmental
public goods. Other EU instruments such as crosscompliance (which links certain CAP payments with specific
environmental requirements) and rural development funding
have had a positive impact in supporting policy objectives
to improve water quantity and quality. However, these
instruments were considered by EU auditors to be limited
with regard to CAP’s policy objectives (ECA, 2014).

Wastewater reuse is recognized to have considerable
potential in many EU Member States, but is constrained by
a lack of standards and concerns about its safety and its
possible effect on the sale of crops.

The EU Roadmap to a Resource Efficient Europe requires
that by 2020 water abstraction should stay below 20% of
available renewable water resources. In the face of predicted
scarcity increases, the EU water blueprint (EC, 2011) refers
to a number of measures and tools to increase water
efficiency, including volumetric water pricing, innovation,
water efficiency targets and leakage reduction. The EU
Water Framework Directive (EU, 2000) provides criteria
for establishing water pricing schemes, and introduces
the concepts of cost recovery, the ‘polluter pays’ principle
and incentive pricing. Charging for agricultural water
use can have a significant impact on reducing water use,
but implementation faces constraints including a lack of
appropriate tariff structures, societal resistance and concerns
about impacts on food prices (ARCADIS et al., 2012).

In the United States, despite gradual improvement of water
use efficiency in irrigation in the past few decades with the
adoption of gravity and pressure/sprinkler-based systems, at
least half of irrigated cropland is still irrigated traditionally.
Also, more than 90% of irrigators do not evaluate crop
irrigation requirements using more efficient on-farm water
management practices such as moisture-sensing devices
and commercial irrigation-scheduling services (Schaible and
Marcel, 2012). After a long debate to address different
concerns around agricultural interests, government spending
and support for provision of water for the poor, the country
passed a Farm Bill in February 2014 (known officially as the
Agricultural Act of 2014). The bill expanded crop insurance
for farmers, eliminated a crop subsidy that had been paid
whether or not crops were grown, cut the food stamp
budget (Supplemental Nutritional Assistance Program) by
US$8.5 billion over a ten year period, and introduced new
soil conservation measures.8

The Mediterranean region is among the most waterscarce areas in pan-Europe. In Cyprus, the government has

7	Under EU rural development regulation, an investment resulting in an
increase of the irrigated area is only eligible in situations where the river
basin management plan did not identify undue water quantity pressures.
The Presidency revised consolidated text of the proposed EAFRD
Regulation COM (2011) 627/3 (EC, 2012).
8	The Agricultural Act of 2014 of the United States Congress. See,
for example, http://www.nytimes.com/2014/02/05/us/politics/
senate-passes-long-stalled-farm-bill.html?_r=0 and http://www.
pewtrusts.org/en/research-and-analysis/blogs/stateline/2014/02/04/
congress-oks-food-stamp-cuts-in-farm-bill

WWDR 2015

Europe and North America

73

12

Asia and the Pacific
UNESCAP | Kelly Anne Hayden, Donovan Storey, Jeremy Tormos-Espinoza and Salmah Zakaria

The heavily populated Asia-Pacific region faces challenges
associated with water-related disaster risk reduction in the
context of climate change, accelerated urbanization, and
the quality and quantity of available water supplies. These
three issues are examined detail in the sections below.
The region’s challenges concerning water and sustainable
development, however, are by no means limited to those
covered in this report. For example, intensified industrial
development and growing energy demand will add to
already existing pressure on water resources in the region.
Individually and together, these challenges create significant
obstacles to sustainable development
Although some progress has been made in terms of access
to improved drinking water (people using improved water
supplies increased by 19% Southern Asia and 23% in
Eastern Asia between 1990 and 2012), nearly 1.7 billion
people in the region (with more than half of these living in

rural areas) still did not have access to improved sanitation in
2012 (WHO and UNICEF, 2014a).

12.1 Water-related disasters
Asia and the Pacific is one of the most disaster-prone regions
in the world. In 2013, over 17,000 people died from waterrelated disasters in the region, accounting for 90% of all
water-related disaster deaths globally. Economic losses
totalled more than US$51.5 billion (CRED, 2014). Exposure
of people and assets to hydrometeorological hazards has
been growing over the past few decades. With urbanization,
people and increasingly valuable economic assets are located
in hazard-prone areas such as floodplains (UNESCAP/UNISDR,
2012).
Climate change (see Chapter 10) is likely to increase the
incidence and severity of extreme events, with some
projections including an increase in the frequency of years

The Mekong Delta is set to face more extreme weather conditions
Photo: G. Smith/CIAT

74

Chapter 12

REGIONS

with above normal monsoon rainfall or extremely low
rainfall (IPCC, 2014). Melting glaciers will affect water
supplies, creating risks of glacial lake outburst floods and
downstream flooding for some regions, and in the long term
leading to an overall reduction in water supplies from snow
cover and glacial runoff (World Bank, 2013). Over the long
term, drought will become an even more serious concern,
particularly given the already strained water access issues
(IPCC, 2013).
Governments have been working towards making their
countries and societies more resilient, but much more work
is needed. In many countries, national policies are not well
implemented, measures to protect the most vulnerable
are often lacking, and institutional capacity to handle
disasters are at times weak (UNESCAP/UNISDR, 2012). Some
governments have been working towards better integrating
disaster risk reduction into development strategies through
their development plans. The governments of Bangladesh,
China and Indonesia have been consistently investing in
disaster risk reduction as they recognize that disasters can
undo hard-earned development gains and cause longterm economic and social damage (UNESCAP, 2013).

12.2 Urban water
Asia and the Pacific is one of the most rapidly urbanizing
regions in the world, with 2.4% annual growth of the
urban population (see Chapter 6). In 2012, 47.5% of
the total population (over 2 billion) lived in urban areas
(UNDESA, 2014), with 30% of the region’s urban population
living in slums (UN-Habitat, 2013). By 2015, it is estimated
that 2.7 billion people will be living in urban areas (UNDESA,
2014), placing considerable stress on the resource base of

The Asia-Pacific region faces a myriad of urban water
challenges. These include drinking water supply
(compounded by a high proportion of water loss in
distribution), water quality control, limited coverage of
sewerage networks and (often non-existing) wastewater
treatment systems, pollution control, and ecosystem
degradation, especially in peri-urban areas and in
surrounding river basins. Sustainability of cities in the region
is intimately linked to the key water-related challenges: lack
of access to safe water and sanitation; increasing water
demand for multiple uses and the concurrent pollution
loads; and increasing resilience to disaster events such as
floods and droughts.

India, China, Nepal, Bangladesh
and Pakistan alone account
for nearly half the world’s total
groundwater use
Urban water needs and challenges require multi-sectoral,
inclusive and comprehensive strategies. Several strategies
are notable in the region, including efforts towards urban
nexus (water-energy-food) planning; integrated stormwater
management and green buildings (stormwater management
and road tunnels in Malaysia); water sensitive urban design

Growth in agricultural groundwater use in selected countries, 1940–2010

Figure

12.1

the region’s cities, including water, and undermining the
sustainable development efforts of these cities and their
respective national governments.

United States

300

Western Europe
Spain

250

Mexico
China

200
km3 /year

India
Pakistan

150

Bangladesh
Sri Lanka

100

Vietnam
Ghana

50

South Africa
Tunisia

0
1940

1950

1960

1970

1980

1990

2000

2010

Source: Shah (2005). Reproduced from Figure 1 "Growth in groundwater use in selected countries: 1940-2010". Groundwater and Human Development:
Challenges and Opportunities in Livelihoods and Environment. Water, Science & Technology 51 (8): 27-37 with permission from the copyright holders,
IWA Publishing.

WWDR 2015

Asia and the Pacific

75

(Australia); eco-efficient water infrastructure development
(Indonesia and the Philippines); and urban wetlands (Kolkata,
India). Efforts to rehabilitate urban water resources include
the increasing use of wastewater for peri-urban agriculture
and for energy production. An increasing number of
initiatives are now looking at opportunities to integrate
water management with urban needs in energy, green
spaces and food security.
Provision of safe water has been primarily under the aegis
of governmental bodies, but public−private partnerships are
also well established in the region, including with the Manila
Water Company in the Philippines, SYABAS in Malaysia and
Shenzhen Water Group in China. Financing and managing
the future needs of urban water infrastructure will be a
considerable challenge, particularly for the region’s rapidly
growing small- and medium-sized cities where resources and
capacity are limited.
There are a number of lessons to be learned from recent
typhoons and the success stories of cyclone shelters
and early warning systems in Bangladesh, India and
the Philippines, and from the development of strategic
frameworks and revitalized institutional arrangements in
river management (Citarum River rehabilitation project in

12.3 Groundwater
Any consideration of the quality and quantity of available
water supplies in the region must examine groundwater,
which is critical to several economic sectors. Experts estimate
that groundwater irrigation contributes US$10 to US$12
billion per year to the Asian economy. When also including
earnings from groundwater sales for irrigation, that estimate
increases to US$25 to US$30 billion (Shah et al., 2003).
Bangladesh, China, India, Nepal and Pakistan together
account for nearly half the world’s total groundwater use
(IGRAC, 2010).
Smallholder irrigation projects can provide households
easy access to groundwater at relatively low costs and is
particularly effective in areas with plentiful groundwater
resources. In India, the groundwater or tube well revolution
has largely contributed to relieving poverty, but the increase
in demand for irrigation has also caused severe groundwater
stress in areas such as southern and eastern Maharashtra,

Agricultural groundwater use in China (km3 per year)

Figure

12.2

Indonesia). Many of these strategies require not only urban
but also regional and national support and commitment,
signifying that urban water management and meeting
future water needs is a challenge that involves coordination
of stakeholders both within and beyond the urban boundary.

0
<1
11
– 5- 5
55
– 10- 10
1010
– 15- 15
10n.d.
– 15
0

<1

0
<1
1–5
5 – 10
10 – 15
10 – 15

Source: Adapted from Wang et al. (2012, Fig. 3-a, p. 6).

76

Chapter 12

REGIONS

Map of arsenic traces in groundwater in Asia

Figure

12.3

Arsenic_region
<all other values>
Region
few
uncertain
many

Source: IGRAC (n.d.), http://www.un-igrac.org/publications/148

and Rajasthan. Figure 12.1 shows the rapid growth in
groundwater use in India, where the increase in the total
number of mechanized wells and tube wells rose from less
than 1 million in 1960 to 19 million in 2000.
China extensively uses groundwater for agriculture (Figure
12.2). Intensive irrigation over the North China Plain aquifer
system has significantly lowered the water table by more
than 40 metres in parts of the shallow aquifer and much
of the deep aquifer since 1960 (Foster and Garduño, 2004).
Investigations by the Chinese Ministry of Water Resources
in 118 cities revealed that 97% of groundwater sources
are polluted, with 64% of cities having seriously polluted
drinking water from groundwater sources (World Bank,
2007b).
Coastal cities such as Calcutta, Dhaka, Jakarta and Shanghai
are experiencing saltwater intrusion in groundwater supplies
due to uncontrolled groundwater abstraction as a result of
the inadequacy of public water supply systems. Saltwater
intrusion will be exacerbated by the rise in sea-level resulting
from climate change (IPCC, 2014). Land subsidence as a
result of groundwater abstraction is seen in a number of
coastal Asian cities including Bangkok.

fluoride and iron. Anthropogenic contaminants come
from fertilizers and pesticides used in agriculture; mining,
tanneries and other industries; landfill and garbage dumps;
and inadequate sanitation and wastewater disposal.
Water shortages during the dry season are leading to overexploitation of groundwater, a situation seen in China
(World Bank, 2007b), Thailand (World Bank, 2011) and
elsewhere. The Pacific is also facing freshwater stress
(see WWAP, 2015, Chapter 5, Case study ”Challenges to
freshwater security in the Pacific SIDS: Focus on saltwater
intrusion in Samoa”). For example, people in Tuvalu and
Samoa increasingly rely on bottled water because of lower
than average rainfall in recent years and saltwater intrusion
of underground reserves from rising sea levels.
If managed in a sustainable manner, the region’s
groundwater can serve as a buffer in times of surface
water scarcity, hence contributing positively to nearly
all sustainable development objectives. However, if
groundwater resources continue to be used beyond
sustainable limits, agricultural production, which is the main
source of income for the majority of the population in the
region, will be threatened.

Groundwater quality is affected by both anthropogenic and
natural contaminants. Natural groundwater contaminants
found in the region’s aquifers include arsenic (Figure 12.3),

WWDR 2015

Asia and the Pacific

77

13

The Arab Region
UNESCWA | Carol Chouchani Cherfane

Water scarcity stands at the forefront when considering
the water-related challenges that impede progress towards
sustainable development in the Arab region. Other
important challenges include the need for more sustainable
water use, access to more reliable water services (particularly
in least developed countries and countries suffering
directly and indirectly from conflict), and improved water
governance for national and transboundary surface water
and groundwater resources.

13.1 Water scarcity
Population growth and increasing socio-economic pressures
have reduced the availability of freshwater resources in the
Arab region. Availability dropped from 921 m3 per capita
per year in 2002 to 727 m3 per capita per year a decade
later, with 16 of 22 Arab countries falling below the water
scarcity level of 1,000 m3 per capita per year and able to
withdraw on average only 292 m3 per capita per year in
2011 (Figure 13.1). Almost 75% of the Arab population live

Climate change and climate variability are making the
situation even worse. A comparison of climate indices
based on historical observations conclusively finds that
there has been a consistent warming trend across the Arab
region since the mid-twentieth century (Donat et al., 2014).
Drought now affects over two-thirds of the land area of
UNESCWA member countries (UNESCWA, 2013a), and an
ensemble of regional climate change models for the Arab
region projects an increase of temperature of at least 2°C by
the year 2040 (Nikulin, 2013). Meanwhile, infrequent yet
intensive flash floods damaged and destroyed infrastructure
in the Comoros, Gaza Strip, Oman, Saudi Arabia and
Tunisia during 2012 and 2013. Climate change adaptation
measures, drought preparedness strategies, and flash flood
risk maps are in turn being prepared and updated in Egypt,
Jordan, Lebanon, Morocco, Palestine, Sudan and Tunisia

Per capita share of renewable water resources in selected Arab region countries (2011)

Figure

13.1

under the water scarcity level, and nearly half lives under
extreme water scarcity level of 500 m3 per capita per year.

3 500

Cubic meters per year

3 000
2 500
2 000
1 500
1 000
500

Lib
ya
Ba
hra
Sa
in
ud
iA
rab
ia
Ye
me
n
Un
ite
Qa
dA
tar
rab
Em
ira
tes
Ku
wa
it

Ira
q
Co
mo
Su
ros
da
na
So
nd
ma
So
lia
uth
Su
da
n
Le
ba
no
n
Sy
Mo
ria
roc
nA
co
rab
Re
pu
bli
c
Eg
yp
t
Om
an
Tu
nis
ia
Oc
D
cu
jib
pie
ou
ti
dP
ale
Alg
sti
eri
nia
a
nT
err
ito
ry
Jo
rda
n

Ma
uri
tan
ia

0

Note: The statistics for the year 2011 cover Sudan and South Sudan, as South Sudan did not become a country since July 2011.
Source: UNESCWA, prepared with data from FAO AQUASTAT.

78

Chapter 13

REGIONS

In the Berkani neighborhood near Meknès (Morocco), 10,504 households are now connected to piped water services
Photo: Arne Hoel/World Bank

(UNDESA/UNESCWA, 2013). Artificial groundwater recharge
is being pursued in the Persian Gulf sub-region as a means
to harvest water from flash floods to increase water storage
capacity and freshwater availability in face of increasing
scarcity.

13.2 Threats to sustainability
Unsustainable consumption and over-extraction of
freshwater resources also contribute to water shortages and
threaten long-term sustainable development. On average,
the agricultural sector continues to be the greatest consumer
of water in the Arab region, although consumption levels
vary significantly between countries. These represent only
16% of freshwater withdrawals in Djibouti, but 99% of
total freshwater withdrawals in Somalia over the last decade
(FAO AQUASTAT). The urgent social and political need to
ensure food security while avoiding negative impact on
rural livelihoods has led Arab governments with agriculturedependent segments of society to pursue irrigation
efficiency programmes, wastewater reuse and water
harvesting schemes as ways to conserve water resources.

WWDR 2015

Such measures were chosen over water pricing schemes that
may generate socio-economic repercussions for vulnerable
communities. Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, Morocco, Oman
and Tunisia have also sought to rehabilitate irrigation
canals, terraces and traditional water networks to improve
agricultural water use efficiency, although flood irrigation
remains dominant in many countries (ICARDA/GEF/IFAD,
2013). Meanwhile, most Arab countries remain dependent
upon food imports to offset national food deficits.
Although several countries in the region are rich in oil and
gas reserves, desalination cannot be a sustainable option
unless alternative energy sources are considered. Apart
from a handful of pilot solar energy desalination facilities
being piloted in the region (see Box 12.2, WWAP, 2014),
investments in nuclear energy are being pursued to diversify
the region’s water-energy mix. Dozens of nuclear-powered
desalination plants are expected to go online in Arab
countries over the next 20 years, with Saudi Arabia alone
expected to build up to 16 nuclear desalination facilities by
2030 (WNA, 2013).

The Arab Region

79

Water utilities face increasing freshwater shortages due
to drought, water distribution losses, damage to water
infrastructure and networks due to armed conflicts, and
increasing energy costs associated with pumping water
from more distant or deeper sources. These factors
reduce their ability to provide regular and reliable quality
services to domestic consumers in a sustainable manner.
Meanwhile, water rationing and groundwater pumping
to offset water shortages have become commonplace in
Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, Palestine and Syria. Countries of
the Gulf Cooperation Council are in turn looking at ways

The Arab region is pursuing
efforts to respond to increased
water scarcity, drought,
climate variability and service
deficiencies under changing and
uncertain conditions
to increase water storage in aquifers as a means to increase
reserves and offset risks (see WWAP, 2015, Chapter 3, Case
study “Sustainable water resources management in the Gulf
Cooperation Council countries”).
Threats to sustainability are further exacerbated by regional
conflicts. By October 2013, access to water supply services
in Syria had decreased by 70% on average since the
beginning of the conflict and has continued to decline
due to a breakdown in services, This has resulted in a
massive undertaking among WASH sector partners to
distribute chlorine, hygiene kits and generators throughout
the country (UNICEF, 2013). The situation has become
precarious along the Euphrates River, where water levels
have dropped and destroyed pipes have forced residents
of Aleppo, Syria, to use jerrycans to collect water from
untreated surface water sources. Over 1.53 million Syrian
refugees have also been registered in Jordan and Lebanon,
where water services are already stressed by scarcity and
drought9. Water infrastructure destroyed during the ArabIsraeli conflict has forced Palestinians to spend a significant
share of their income on water from tankers and to rely
on unclean sources of water in the Gaza Strip, which have

9	Calculated based on UNHCR figures as of 6 March 2014, as presented in
Majdalani (2014).

80

Chapter 13

increased the prevalence of water-related diseases (UN,
2013b).
In addition to the impacts of civil and military conflict, the
dependency of Arab countries on transboundary water
resources further complicates matters. Over 66% of
freshwater resources in Arab countries originate outside
national borders (Arab Water Council, 2012), which
leaves downstream Arab countries vulnerable to upstream
developments, such as the construction of the Renaissance
Dam on the Blue Nile in Ethiopia and Turkish dams along the
Tigris and Euphrates rivers. Groundwater reserves in large
aquifer systems in the Western Asia part of the Arab region
extending from Iraq to Yemen far exceed the discharge
volume of all rivers combined in that area (UNESCWA/
BGR, 2013). However, the number of surface water or
groundwater agreements involving Arab countries is very
limited, and the few that exist are bilateral in nature rather
than at the basin level.

13.3 Progress and perspectives
In the face of these challenges, Arab countries are
focusing on water and sustainable development in legal
and policy frameworks. For example, the Arab Ministerial
Water Council adopted a regional water security strategy
for sustainable development in 2012 and an associated
action plan in May 2014. At the national level, the new
constitution of Tunisia (adopted in January 2014) established
the human right to water and the preservation of water
and its rational use as an obligation of the state and society
(National Constituent Assembly of Tunisia, 2014). Morocco
and Algeria also have legal provisions related to access to
water and sanitation (OHCHR, 2010).
According to the WHO and UNICEF Joint Monitoring
Programme (JMP) for Water Supply and Sanitation, out of
the total Arab population estimated at 355 million people in
2011, approximately 17% (60 million people) do not have
access to improved drinking water sources, while 20% (71
million people) do not have access to improved sanitation
facilities (UNESCWA, 2013b; WHO and UNICEF, 2013). This
means that 83% of the population in the Arab region has
access to improved water sources. However, this does not
mean that consumers have regular or reliable access to
water supplies, or that the quality of water supplied is safe
for drinking (see Box 1.1). The Arab regional MDG+ Initiative
is improving monitoring and reporting on the quality and
quantity of access to water supply and sanitation services
under the auspices of the Arab Ministerial Water Council.
Water harvesting and reuse are expanding throughout
the region, with best practices being exchanged between

REGIONS

Tunisia and Palestine,10 irrigation with treated wastewater
expanding in Jordan, and treated wastewater being injected
on a daily basis into coastal aquifers to ward off saltwater
intrusion and bolster water reserves in Oman (Zekri et al.,
2014). Egypt has used water from flash floods to recharge
groundwater along the Red Sea. Artificial groundwater
recharge through the construction of dams and other
infrastructure is also common in the Persian Gulf and
Mashreq sub-regions. Improved water use efficiency is being
promoted through Green Help Desks and Clean Production
Centres instituted in most Arab countries. Collaborative
mechanisms for transboundary groundwater also continue
among Algeria, Libya and Tunisia on the North-Western
Sahara Aquifer System11 and shared rivers such as the

10	Memorandum of Understanding between Tunisia and Palestine, 2012.
11	Technically supported by the Sahara and Sahel Observatory (OSS).

WWDR 2015

Senegal. Nevertheless, there is a need for cooperation
and improved water governance and the management of
transboundary surface water and groundwater resources.
Improved databases, monitoring systems and assessment
tools are also under development by international and
regional organizations and national ministries to inform
planning and decision-making.
The Arab region is thus pursuing efforts to respond to
increased water scarcity, drought, climate variability
and service deficiencies under changing and uncertain
conditions. A more integrated and inclusive approach to
water resources management is needed. Ensuring water
security under conditions of increased water scarcity will
require coordinated responses across sectors, and the
recognition of water supply and sanitation as a human right
as central to the achievement of sustainable development in
the Arab region.

The Arab Region

81

14

Latin America and the Caribbean
UNECLAC | Author: Andrei Jouravlev
With the cooperation of Caridad Canales, and comments and contribution of Terence Lee, Miguel Solanes and Juan Pablo Bohoslavsky

Latin America and the Caribbean is a hydrologically and
economically heterogeneous region, which in the last
decade has seen significant reductions in poverty, high
economic growth and greater macroeconomic stability, as
well as the emergence of a middle class (UNECLAC, 2013a
and 2013b). However, the region remains the most unequal
in the world. It has been unable to converge per capita
GDP with developed countries, and over 160 million people
(about 28% of its population) still live in poverty.
The focus of national policies is primarily on economic
development and poverty reduction. The basis of most
economies remains the export of natural resources, which
use large quantities of water in production. This situation
generates tensions in water management for two main

reasons. First, economic activities and population tend to
be concentrated in dry and sub-humid areas. This leads to
increasing competition in terms of quantity, but also more
recently in terms of quality and opportunity of use for scarce
water resources. This situation is expected to be aggravated
in the future through the joint negative effect of higher
water demands due to population growth and economic
development coupled with drier conditions and increased
hydrological variability in many river basins as a result of
climate change (IPCC, 2008). Second, economic growth and
rising income levels generate increased demand for public
services and environmental amenities. Unfortunately, recent
decades have seen a reduction in investments in economic
infrastructure. With rising incomes and democratization,
people are demanding more emphasis to be given to

Isla del Sol (Sun Island), Lake Titicaca (Bolivia)
Photo: Benjamin Dumas

82

Chapter 14

REGIONS

environmental conservation, citizen participation in
decision-making, and protection of the rights of indigenous
communities. These tensions highlight two water-related
priorities that countries will have to address in the coming
decades: (i) strengthening water governance and (ii)
improving provision of drinking water supply and sanitation
services.

14.1 Water governance
The first priority for Latin America and the Caribbean is to
improve and consolidate water governance, with a paradigm
shift to the sustainable integration of water resources
management and use into socio-economic development
and poverty reduction. Given the relative abundance of
water in the region, any ’water crisis’ is more institutional
than related to physical availability (UNECLAC, 2001). Most
countries have an extremely limited formal institutional
capacity to manage water resources, and effective
implementation of existing management instruments is not
very high on political agendas. Common problems include
inefficient public administration; widespread informality;
weak regulatory institutions; low levels of participation,
coordination, transparency, credibility and accountability;
unstable and insufficient financing; corruption and capture;
fragmented and outdated water legislation; lack of technical
capacity; implementation agencies and service providers
with politicized and weak governance; and insufficient
information. The widespread inability to establish effective
formal and stable institutions to deal with water allocation
(and increasingly reallocation) and pollution control issues
is evidenced in many examples of poor management,
informality and lack of coordination (WWAP, 2012).
These deficiencies in governance manifest themselves in
unsustainable and informal practices of water use, water
pollution, particularly in and downstream from densely
populated urban areas, and especially in the proliferation of
conflicts in relation to most large infrastructure and natural
resources development projects (Martín and Justo, 2014).
These conflicts arise particularly between large commercial
interests such as mining and hydroelectric power on the
one hand, and the interests of environmental protection,
in-stream water users, and small local, traditional and
indigenous users (often without duly formalized water
rights) on the other. Many of these conflicts relate to
projects with foreign participation, which are usually covered
by international investment agreements. Various cases in
the region, as well as in other parts of the world (Solanes
and Jouravlev, 2007; Bohoslavsky, 2010; UNCTAD, 2014)
indicate that, particularly in countries with weak governance,
international investor protection can limit public policy space
to adequately manage water and other natural resources

WWDR 2015

and regulate public utility services. Ultimately, there is a
need for strong governance to ensure an adequate balance
between the efforts to attract foreign investment and ensure
stable business environment, on the one hand and the
objective to achieve socio-economic development, poverty
reduction, environmental sustainability and protection of
vital public interests, on the other.

Given the relative abundance
of water in the region, any ’water
crisis’ is more institutional
than one in terms of physical
availability
To overcome this situation, governments will have to put
in place and make fully operational: (i) water management
institutions that adequately respond to the nature of the
problems involved in utilising the resource, and that are in
tune with the conceptions and practices of society; (ii) water
management instruments (water use rights and discharge
permits, assessment, planning, water quality norms, demand
management, conflict resolution, regulation, etc.), which
increasingly use economic means such as charges, efficient
costs, markets and social evaluation; (iii) independent water
authorities, with powers and resources commensurate with
their responsibilities, supported by river basin organizations;
(iv) water allocation (and especially reallocation) systems that
promote investment in water development and conservation,
ensure efficient and orderly water use, avoid monopolies
and facilitate control in the public interest; and (v) water
pollution control systems able to mobilize the necessary
technological and financial resources (Solanes and Jouravlev,
2006).

14.2 Drinking water supply and sanitation
The second priority for Latin America and the Caribbean is
to consolidate the progress achieved in providing drinking
water and sanitation services, ensuring the full realization
of the human right to water and sanitation (Justo, 2013)
and considering the post-2015 development agenda. The
levels of provision of water and sanitation, with the possible
exception of wastewater treatment, achieved in the region
compare favourably to those in other developing nations
(Jouravlev, 2004; Sato et al., 2013; WHO and UNICEF, 2014b).
However, such overall estimates tend to exaggerate real levels
of access to services and do not take into consideration the
preferences of the population for piped access and especially
the serious deficiencies in service quality (intermittence, water

Latin America and the Caribbean

83

losses, water quality control, etc.) which disproportionally
affect rural areas and the poor (Jouravlev, 2011). Many cities
still suffer from episodic flooding because of inadequate
stormwater drainage infrastructure and deficiencies in urban
planning (WWAP, 2012).
Governments will have to concentrate efforts to achieve
universal service coverage – with emphasis on household
connections, improvement in service quality and
sustainability – which could take 10 to 20 years in many
countries, while the expansion of wastewater treatment and
stormwater drainage systems is likely to require similar time.
With the expansion of wastewater treatment (and reuse),
attention will have to centre on more advanced treatment
technologies (tertiary with nutrient removal) and sludge
disposal as well as solid waste management and industrial
and non-point source pollution control, particularly in
agriculture.

84

Chapter 14

To advance in the realization of these goals, governments
will have to focus public policies on (Hantke-Domas and
Jouravlev, 2011): (i) assigning high political priority to
these services both in terms of budgetary allocations and
development of stable and efficient institutions; (ii) a gradual
transition to self-financing with tariff design that encourages
resource use efficiency, accompanied by the creation of
effective subsidy systems for low income groups; (iii) a more
consolidated or aggregated industrial structure, to take
advantage of economies of scale and ensure technical and
financial viability of service providers; (iv) effective economic
regulation, with emphasis on access to information, uniform
accounting, benchmarking and consumer participation;
(v) adjusting regulatory practices and utilities’ governance
to their property structure, so as to make them more
transparent and responsive to regulatory incentives; and (vi)
closer integration of economic regulation and water and
land management policies so as to ensure environmental
sustainability of service provision.

REGIONS

Africa
WWAP | Stephen Maxwell Kwame Donkor

15.1 Overview
Building on the economic recovery of the past decade,
improvements in governance, and the gradual emergence
of capable states beginning in the mid-1990s, Africa’s
key policy goal is a transition and transformation from
political to economic independence. The fundamental
aim is to achieve durable and vibrant participation in the
global economy while ensuring that the abundant natural
resources are managed sustainably and equitably to serve
the needs of present and future generations of Africans.
For Africa, perhaps more than any other region of the world,
the challenge of sustainable development lies in developing
Africa’s natural and human resources without repeating the
negatives that have appeared on the development paths
of others. Rather, the region can learn from the negative
experiences to engender sustainability, such as supporting
policy choices for ‘clean’ industrial processes that reduce
waste and pollution of water sources.
Many African economies are now growing faster than they
have in 40 years. Six of the world’s 10 fastest growing
countries (on the basis of GDP) in the 2000s were in subSaharan Africa: Angola at 11.1% a year; Nigeria 8.9%;
Ethiopia 8.4%; Chad 7.9%; Mozambique 7.9%; and
Rwanda 7.6%. And several others were above or near the
7% growth needed to double their economies in 10 years.
In 2012 Sierra Leone led the way with a 17.2% rise in GDP
(ACET, 2014).
These figures must, however, be taken with some caution
in terms of sustainable development because it has not

BOX

15.1

15

been accompanied by an effective transformation of the
basic economic structures of many of these states. These are
based on exporting raw agricultural and mineral products
without much processing and have led to a rise in social and
economic inequity.
The backbone of many African economies is agriculture
(Box 15.1), which is dependent on highly variable and
unpredictable rainfall patterns. Assured and timely water
availability is a major constraint in sustainable agricultural
production. As other regions around the globe gentrify and
reach fertility rates below those needed to replace current
populations and thus a productive work force, Africa has
a different problem − that of rapid population growth,
which can be seen as an opportunity to transform African
economies to sustainable and inclusive growth for the next
half century. This population must be fed, educated, and
kept healthy and productive. It is in this context that water
for food, water for health and water for energy is critical to

The concept of sustainable
development is perhaps more
important for Africa than other
regions of the world
the continent’s sustained development. Important progress
has been made towards attaining the MDG target for access
to improved drinking water (except for the most fragile
states), especially for urban populations, but much less
progress has been made with respect to sanitation.

Kofi Annan on Africa’s green and blue revolutions
“If we want to accelerate Africa’s transformation, then we have to significantly boost our agriculture and fisheries, which
together provide livelihoods for roughly two-thirds of all Africans. […] The time has come to unleash Africa’s green and
blue revolutions. These revolutions will transform the face of our continent for the better. Beyond the valuable jobs and
opportunities they will provide, such revolutions will generate a much-needed improvement to Africa’s food and nutrition
security.”
Source: Africa Progress Panel (2014, p. 11).

WWDR 2015

Africa

85

At the highest policymaking level, the African Union (AU)
has recognized the critical role of water in various Summit
Declarations (AU, 2004 and 2008; AMCOW, 2008) and has
adopted the African Water Vision 2025 as the fundamental
policy instrument for the management of Africa’s water
resources for sustainable development. The shared
vision is for: “An Africa where there is an equitable and
sustainable use and management of water resources for
poverty alleviation, socio-economic development, regional
cooperation, and the environment” (UNECA, 2000). As a
policy instrument, the African Water Vision 2025 identifies
the key challenges for water resources development in Africa.

Water
security

Water

Energy
security

Food
security

Water security: The availability of an acceptable
quantity and quality of water for health, livelihoods,
ecosystems and production, coupled with an acceptable
level of water-related risks to people, environment and
economies (Grey and Sadoff, 2007).
Food Security: When all people at all times have access
to sufficient , safe, nutritious food to maintain a healthy
and active life (WHO, n.d.).
Energy Security: The uninterrupted physical availability
(of energy) at a price which is affordable, while respecting
environment concerns (IEA, 2011).
Source: Wouters (2011).

86

The Sharm el-Sheikh Commitments by the AU identify key
water challenges related to sustainable development in
Africa (AU, 2014):
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

Water infrastructure for economic growth;
Managing and protecting water resources;
Achieving water supply and sanitation MDGs;
Global changes and risk management in Africa;
Water governance and management;
Financing water and sanitation sector; and
Education, knowledge, capacity development and water
information.

The water-food-energy nexus in Africa

Figure

15.1

15.2 Key water challenges related to
sustainable development in Africa

Chapter 15

Of particular importance for Africa is the critical nexus
between water, food and energy (Figure 15.1). Water
availability, access and optimal use are essential for
transforming the vicious cycle of insecurities to a virtuous
upward spiral towards inclusive green (and blue) growth.
Currently, only 5% of the Africa’s potential water resources
are developed and average per capita storage is 200 m3
compared to 6,000 m3 in North America. Only 5% of
Africa’s cultivated land is irrigated and less than 10% of
hydropower potential is utilized for electricity generation
(Sperling and Bahri, 2014). This occurs in a situation where
only 57% of the population has access to modern energy
services (mainly electricity), which are becoming less reliable
with the accelerating rate of urbanization in most of the
region’s major cities (IEA, 2013). In 2012, three years before
the end of MDGs, on average about 36% of the population
did not have access to improved water resources and 70%
still did not have access to improved sanitation. (WHO and
UNICEF, 2014b).
In addition to these statistics, climate variability and change
is likely to restrain progress in managing Africa water
resources. Regional cooperation is especially needed due
to the multiplicity of transboundary water resources (more
than 80 international river basins and aquifers) which must
be managed coherently and equitably to meet regional and
national goals and evolving sectoral needs.
Agriculture remains the Achilles’ heel of Africa’s
development. Low productivity levels trap millions of
farmers in poverty, act as a brake on growth and weaken
links between the farm and non-farm economies. Africa’s
farmers could potentially feed rapidly growing urban
populations and generate exports to meet demand in global
markets. However, the region is increasingly dependent
on imports. African countries spent US$35 billion on food
imports (excluding fish) in 2011 and the share accounted

REGIONS

for by intra-African trade is less than 5% (Africa Progress
Panel, 2014). If Africa’s farmers increased productivity and
substituted their own produce for these imports, this would
provide a powerful impetus to reduce poverty, enhance
food and nutrition security, and support a more inclusive
pattern of economic growth. This potential is dependent on
developing the infrastructure and expertise for harnessing
the abundant water resources for irrigation, power
generation, domestic use and value adding industries to
traditional export commodities. Such water infrastructure
development is dependent on a deeper level of regional
integration and cooperation due to the transboundary
nature of most of Africa’s water resources. A paradigm
shift from a focus on trade only between African nations
to joint planning and resource development (including
water) is needed in future discourse on African regional
integration.

15.3 The way forward
Despite these challenges, significant progress has been
made by many African countries in the utilization of water
resources for socio-economic development. Looking forward,

the key will be not only achieving economic growth but also
sustainable and inclusive growth. The Africa Progress Report
addresses the importance of achieving economic growth,
as well as sustainable and inclusive growth (Africa Progress
Panel, 2014, p. 14):
Africa stands at a crossroads. Economic growth
has taken root across much of the region. Exports
are booming, foreign investment is on the rise and
dependence on aid is declining. Governance reforms
are transforming the political landscape. Democracy,
transparency and accountability have given Africa’s
citizens a greater voice in decisions that affect their
lives. These are encouraging developments. Yet the
progress in reducing poverty, improving people’s lives
and putting in place the foundations for more inclusive
and sustainable growth has been less impressive.
Governments have failed to convert the wealth created
by economic growth into the opportunities that all
Africans can exploit to build a better future. The time
has come to set a course towards more inclusive
growth and fairer societies.

Fisher on the White Nile (Morada), Khartoum (Sudan)
Photo: Arne Hoel/World Bank
WWDR 2015

Africa

87

BOX

15.2

The Grand Inga project
Offering 40,000 MW of potential hydropower, the Grand Inga hydroelectric project on Africa’s largest river, the Congo River,
may provide a potential answer to meeting Africa’s regional energy needs. The table shows current potential hydropower,
actual electricity production, consumption per capita and 2005 demand estimates. The map shows one of the options for
distribution of the power generated if the Grand Inga project is executed and shows how the enormous power generated
by the massive dam can be distributed through the Power Pools to meet demand in all regions of Africa. This makes the
Grand Inga hydropower project a truly regional project and could help improve regional integration using a renewable energy
source, water, as the prime instrument.
Energy situation in Africa

Hydroelectricity
potential
(GWh)

Subregion

%

Electricity
production
(GWh)

%

Consumption
per capita
(kWh/hab/
monthly)

Estimate
of demand
in 2015

%

North Africa

41 000

3.7

133 830

33.2

740

209 296

36.8

West Africa

100 970

9.2

38 033

9.4

143

50 546

8.9

Central Africa

653 361

57.7

10 537

2.6

148

13 052

2.3

Southern Africa

151 535

13.8

208 458

51.7

1617

279 409

49

East Africa

171 500

15.6

12 281

3.1

68

12 281

3

1 118 366

100

403 139

100

Total

Potential regional power distribution from Grand Inga
4 000 MW
CENTRE COMELEC
TUNISIA

4 000 MW
WEST COMELEC
MOROCCO

4 000 MW
EAST COMELEC
EGYPT

Target networks 2020-2030
Option 1A – Direct current 500 kV with backbone
North-South coast in 400 kV AC
Multiregional projects 500 kV CC

N’Djamena
Maroua

2000 MW
EAPP NORTH
SUDAN

Lagdo

1 500 THEN
6 000 MW WAPP

Ngaoundéré
Nachtigal
Yaoundé

Kembé
Bangul

Yokadouma
Chollet

Memvé Elé
Bata
Ntoum

Grand Poubara

Chules de l’impératrice
Bongolo
Mongo Kamba
Pointe Noire
Cabinda

Regional projects 220/400 kV AC

Lom Pangar
Dimoll

Douala

Multiregional projects 500 kV CC (2030)

Inga

Regional projects 400 kV AC (post-2025)

Mobaye

RDC-Rwanda-Burundi-Tanzania projects
110/220 kV AC
Mbararra Gikondo
Mukurunwa
Kuharondo
Kikoma Goma
Rusomo
Ruzizi 1
Muvloha Biharamulo
Kiliba
Bujumbura Gitenga
4 000 MW
Rwendura

EAPP SOUTH
KENYA

Maquela do Zombo
Ulge
Pambo de sanhe
Lucala

National projects 220/400 kV AC
Acronyms:
COMELEC – Comité Maghrébin de l'Électricité
EAPP – Eastern Africa Power Pool
kV – Kilovolt
SAPP – Southern African Power Pool
WAPP – Western Africa Power Pool
WESCOR – Western Power Corridor

6 000 MW
SAPP CENTRE
ZAMBIA
6 000 MW
SAPP WEST
WESTCOR

88

Chapter 15	

Source: ECCAS (2010).

REGIONS

15.3

Large-scale agricultural lease investments

BOX

A study commissioned by the African Ministers’ Council on Water (AMCOW) and executed by the International Water
Management Institute (IWMI) assessed the extent and prevalence of large-scale agricultural lease investments (LSALI) in many
countries in Africa (IWMI, 2014). Proponents of LSALI contend that after 50 years of difficulty in transforming low productivity
traditional agricultural practices, large-scale private-sector investments – mainly as part of the overall efforts at attracting
foreign direct investments (FDI) – may provide an alternative means of acquiring the technologies needed in improving overall
productivity in African agriculture.

AFRICA

Sub-Saharan African countries with total large-scale investment in agricultural land greater than 100,000 hectares, 2000-2012.
Medit
er
r

Algiers

Tunis

TUNISIA

Rabat

Madeira Is.

(PORTUGAL)

MOROCCO

an

ea
n

These large-scale
investments are
widespread across the
continent and many
are based on irrigated
farming for both local
consumption and
exports of food crops,
livestock and biofuels.

Sea

Tripoli

Canary Is.

Cairo

ALGERIA

(SPAIN)

LIBYA

Laayoune

EGYPT

Western
Sahara

Re

d
Se

Malabo

Yaoundé

Principe
São
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
Tomé
São Tomé
Annobón

Lake
Albert

Libreville

GABON

C

(EQUATORIAL GUINEA)

Brazzaville

Ascension

A T L A N T I C

(UK)

O C E A N

Cabinda

DEMOCRATIC RWANDA
REPUBLIC
Kigali
OF THE
Bujumbura

Kinshasa

CONGO

Nairobi

BURUNDI

M

Lake Harare
Kariba

MO

NAMIBIA

BOTSWANA

Windhoek

UE

ZA

ZIMBABWE

Q
BI

Gaborone
Pretoria
Mbabane
Bloemfontein

SOUTH
AFRICA

Providence Is.

COMOROS

MALAWI

Lusaka

Victoria

SEYCHELLES

Moroni

Lilongwe

ZAMBIA

Amirante Is.

Zanzibar
Aldabra Is.

Lake
Nyasa

(UK)

INDIAN OCEAN
Pemba

Dodoma

ANGOLA

Mogadishu

KENYA

Lake
Victoria

TANZANIA

St. Helena

LI

A
M

Kampala

UNITED REPUBLIC OF

Luanda

SO

Lake
Turkana

UGANDA

Lake
Tanganyika

(ANGOLA)

A

Addis Ababa

Juba

Mayotte Is.
(under French
admin.)

A

L

EQUATORIAL GUINEA

SOUTH
SUDAN

CENTRAL
AFRICAN REPUBLIC

Bangui

CAMEROON

Farquhar Is.
Agalega Is.

(MAURITIUS)

Tromelin

R

(FRANCE)

Cargados
Carajos

C

Abidjan

Abuja

Porto
Novo

Socotra

(YEMEN)

ETHIOPIA

AS

LIBERIA

NIGERIA

A
AN

Yamoussoukro Accra

n

Ade

Djibouti

AG

H

Monrovia

B EN I N
TOGO

CÔTED'IVOIRE

SIERRA
LEONE

G

lf of
DJIBOUTI Gu

Antananarivo

MAURITIUS
Port Louis

MAD

GUINEA

Asmara

N'Djamena

Ouagadougou

Conakry
Freetown

ERITREA

Khartoum

O

Bissau

GUINEA-BISSAU

BURKINA FASO

SUDAN

CHAD

Lake
Chad

Niamey

G

Banjul

NIGER

MALI

Bamako

N

SENEGAL

O

Dakar

GAMBIA

om
e

Praia

a

MAURITANIA
Nouakchott

CAPE VERDE

Réunion

(FRANCE)

Maputo

SWAZILAND

Maseru

LESOTHO

Cape Town

Source: IWMI (2014). IWMI acknowledges support from FAO, GRID-Arendal and UNEP in the conduct of the study that produced this map and graph.

Production activities on large-scale investment schemes in selected Sub-Saharan African countries (2000-2012)
300 000

Area (ha)

250 000
200 000
150 000
100 000
50 000

0

South Sudan
Biofuel

WWDR 2015

Zambia
Food crop

Ethiopia

Mali

Ghana

Sierra Leone

Tanzania

Mozambique

Livestock

Africa

89

In terms of agriculture, Africa’s response, led by the African
Development Bank (AfDB), is to promote interventions
which focus on water storage and management to
overcome the low, unreliable rainfall during the cropping
season, in situ rainwater management, water harvesting or
runoff harvesting, and water management for crop growth
in wetlands. Additional interventions will also focus on
infrastructure for livestock, fisheries and rural energy (AfDB,
2010).
To achieve this, regional – and especially transboundary –
cooperation in the development of Africa’s water resources
will be critical in the coming decades. Transformation
in agricultural production based on more acreage under
irrigation, transboundary hydropower generation and
distribution through regional power pools and a redoubled

90

Chapter 15	

effort to meet the goals and targets of the African Water
Vision 2025 will be essential.
Emerging approaches for meeting Africa’s energy and
food security needs for sustainable development include
inter-regional generation and use of hydropower such
as the Inga Power Project and Large Scale Agricultural
Lease Investments. Boxes 15.2 and 15.3 provide an
introduction to these emerging approaches for promoting
a virtuous upward spiral in the water-food-energy nexus for
sustainable development in Africa. They may stimulate some
‘leapfrogging’ in the use of modern agricultural technologies
and increase productivity. These approaches have been
proposed as essential to meeting the growing food and
energy needs of an urbanizing and industrializing Africa.

REGIONS

PART 4
RESPONSES AND
IMPLEMENTATION
Chapter
16. Framework for implementing The Future We Want

Consolation Prize “Clean India Photo Contest” 2008
Photo: Dinesh Chandra
WWDR 2015

91

Recognizing the critical role of water across the different developmental challenges described
throughout this report is merely the first step towards achieving sustainable development. True
progress requires immediate and decisive action.
This part of the report presents a roadmap of potential responses, solution options and means of
implementation that can be adopted to foster progress. Since the challenges vary across the planet
in both nature and scope, it is incumbent upon stakeholders and decision-makers in each region,
country, basin and community to identify the most appropriate mix of options for their particular
situation. Implementing such action is necessary to ensure sustainable water management and a
mandatory path on the route towards sustainable development.

92

RESPONSES AND IMPLEMENTATION

Framework for implementing
The Future We Want
UNDP | Joakim Harlin, Marianne Kjellén and Håkan Tropp
WWAP | Richard Connor, Joana Talafré, Karine Peloffy, Erum Hasan and Marie-Claire Dumont

16.1 Water and the three dimensions of
sustainable development
The outcome document of the 2012 United Nations
Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20), The
Future We Want, recognized that ‘water is at the core
of sustainable development’ and its social, economic
and environmental dimensions (Assevero and Chitre,
2012). Water is the lifeblood of the planet and of critical
importance for all socio-economic development.
From a social perspective, there are obvious connections
between access to safe and adequate quantities of water and
health, for drinking first, but also for hygiene and sanitation at
the household, community and national levels (see Chapter 5).
Access to safe and predictable sources of water is essential to
addressing the multiple forms of deprivation related to poverty
(see Chapter 2), directly through drinking water and its relation
to human health, but also indirectly since water is required in
most economic activity (see Chapter 3).

16

the Rio Earth Summit in 1992, floods, droughts and storms
have affected 4.2 billion people (95% of all people affected
by all disasters) and caused US$1.3 trillion of damage (63%
of all damage) (UNISDR, 2012).
The environmental dimension of water and sustainable
development includes the role of healthy ecosystems, which
provide water services that have enormous societal value
through flood control, groundwater recharge, river-bank
stabilization and erosion protection, water purification,
biodiversity conservation, as well as transportation, recreation
and tourism (MEA, 2005b) (see Chapter 4). Drivers that
affect water quality and quantity, such as pollution, species
introductions, changes in land use and climate change,
can also affect the ability of ecosystems to appropriately
regulate themselves, affecting other ecosystem services in
turn. Removing or reducing these pressures is therefore a
necessary aspect of maintaining ecosystem integrity.

16.2 The post-2015 development agenda

Sustainable management of water resources and related
infrastructure can greatly increase productivity in the
agricultural and food sector (see Chapter 7). Achieving more
efficient water use is crucial considering that production
and consumption of agricultural products alone account
for over 70% of water withdrawals in many developing
countries (UNDESA, 2013b). Beyond the primary economic
sectors, water is also crucial to all other economic activities,
most notably through its role in energy production, mining
and tourism. Water scarcity could be an important obstacle
for the expansion of the power sector, especially in Asia,
southern Africa and the Middle East, where the demand is
set to grow rapidly (WWAP, 2014).
Water can also lead to economic losses due to water-related
hazards, which have risen greatly in the last decade. Since

WWDR 2015

16.2.1 Stocktaking at the end of the MDGs:
Achievements and lessons
In September 2000, 189 world leaders signed the United
Nations Millennium Declaration from which emerged
a set of eight MDGs. For the first time, there was an

16.1
BOX

Economically, addressing lack of safe drinking water and
sanitation will lead to long-lasting effects on human capital
and growth. Recent estimates suggest that, globally, the
benefits of achieving universal access to sanitation outweigh
the costs by a factor of 5.5 to 1, whereas for universal
access to drinking-water the ratio is estimated at 2 to 1
(WHO, 2012b).

Millennium Development Goal 7:
Ensure environmental sustainability

• Target 7.A: Integrate the principles of sustainable
development into country policies and programmes
and reverse the loss of environmental resources
- Indicator 7.4 Proportion of total water resources
used
• T arget 7.C: Halve, by 2015, the proportion of people
without sustainable access to safe drinking water
and basic sanitation
- Indicator 7.7: Proportion of population using an
improved drinking water source
- Indicator 7.8: Proportion of population using an
improved sanitation facility
Source: UNGA (2001).

Framework for implementing The Future We Want

93

global agreement in which rich and developing countries
recognized that they share the responsibility to end poverty
and its root causes. Water underpins all the MDGs but is only
explicitly included in Goal 7 targets 7A and 7C (Box 16.1).
The MDGs have been successful in rallying public, private
and political support for global poverty reduction. A major
strength of the MDG framework has been its focus on a
limited set of concrete development goals and targets, which
has supported priority-setting in national and international
development policies. For water, the MDGs fostered greater
coordination of international development efforts towards
improving access to drinking water supply and sanitation.
However, as the MDGs did not derive from a consultative
process with a wide range of national-level stakeholders,
they have suffered from a perception of being donorcentric and being somewhat imbalanced regarding which
topics were addressed. For example, no specific targets
were included for sustainable water resources management
(surface and groundwater), for water quality, pollution,
wastewater treatment or for maintaining the roles of
ecosystems. Water-related gender and hygiene dimensions
were also lacking, as were water-related disasters.
The strength of being simple and relatively straightforward
to measure also led to difficulties in accounting for the

local context. The way that the MDGs achievements are
accumulated can mask significant regional and in-country
disparities. Inequities between urban-rural, rich- poor, menwomen, large and small countries are lost in the aggregated
data.
Another set of problems with the MDGs stem from the use
of proxy indicators. The target for safe drinking water, for
example, was captured by the proxy indicator for using an
‘improved drinking water source’ (Box 1.1) and important
aspects such as the quality, availability and reliability of
services were not included.
The limited scope of the MDGs has also not prompted
developing countries − particularly those vulnerable to
emerging challenges such as climate change, food crises
and rapidly increasing urbanization − to fully address
governance-related issues such as the development of
robust government institutions, social welfare systems and
an enabling environment for civil society participation (UN,
2012).
Despite some drawbacks, however, the MDGs created
momentum and constituted a vital instrument in focusing
global attention to the lack of access to safe drinking
water and sanitation. Pioneering efforts also helped to
highlight many institutional challenges such as lack of
implementation capacity, weak stakeholder participation

Children learning the importance of proper hand washing and drinking safe water, Had Ane Primary School, Oudomxay Province (Laos)
Photo: Bart Verweij/World Bank

94

Chapter 16

RESPONSES AND IMPLEMENTATION

and unclear mandates within government structures (UN,
2013c). The achievement of the MDG drinking water
target, albeit measured, through the proxy indicator of
an ‘improved’ water source, demonstrates that setting
international goals and targets can drive change through
sustained commitment, dedication of resources and
effective implementation approaches (UN, 2013c). As they
come to an end, the experience of the MDGs shows that
a thematically broader, more detailed and context- specific
framework for water, beyond the issues of water supply and
sanitation, is critical for the post-2015 development agenda.
16.2.2 The need for a dedicated post-2015 goal for
water
Whereas the MDGs concentrated efforts on developing
countries, the post-2015 SDGs will aim for a worldwide
scope. This is especially important in the context of
water services since the drinking water and wastewater
infrastructure of developed nations has deteriorated in
the last decades (ASCE, 2011) and vulnerable populations
still lack access to WASH in rich countries (Government of
Canada, 2014).
Water’s fundamental importance for human development,
the environment and the economy needs to feature
prominently in the new post-2015 development agenda.
In 2014, UN-Water recommended a dedicated SDG for
water with five target areas: (i) WASH; (ii) water resources;
(iii) water governance; (iv) water quality and wastewater
management; and (v) water-related disasters. A dedicated
water goal would create social, economic, financial and

Technical advice from UN-Water on a possible global SDG
for water helped inform discussions of the UN General
Assembly Open Working Group (OWG) on Sustainable
Development Goals. In September 2014, the General
Assembly adopted a resolution on the final report of the
OWG on SDGs, containing 17 goals, one of which is a
dedicated goal on water. The General Assembly decided that
the proposal of the OWG on the SDGs “shall be the main
basis for integrating sustainable development goals into
the post-2015 development agenda, while recognizing that
other inputs will also be considered in the intergovernmental
negotiating process at the 69th session of the GA” (UNGA,
2014). All dimensions of water suggested by UN-Water were
incorporated in the final report of the OWG (Box 16.3).
Water is much more than a cross-cutting issue. Unless the
fundamental role of water is recognized, water resources
and the impacts of its various uses are properly assessed,
and the major water-related challenges are addressed, many
other critical objectives of the new development agenda
will be unachievable (UN-Water, 2014). Water and water

Outcomes of a dedicated SDG for water as suggested by UN-Water

BOX

16.2

other benefits that greatly outweigh its costs (UN-Water,
2014) and extend well beyond the water domain (as it is
normally understood) (Box 16.2). The development of health,
education, agriculture and food production, energy, industry
and other social and economic activities all depend on the
effective management, protection and provision of water
and the delivery of safe water supply and sanitation services.
Communities also need protection from the dangers that
water-related hazards can present.

Healthy people

 niversal access to safe drinking water, sanitation and hygiene,
U
improving water quality and raising service standards

Increased prosperity

The sustainable use and development of water resources,
increasing and sharing the available benefits

Equitable societies

through

Robust and effective water governance with more effective
institutions and administrative systems

Protected ecosystems

Improved water quality and wastewater management taking
account of environmental limits

Resilient communities

Reduced risk of water-related disasters to protect vulnerable
groups and minimize economic losses

Source: UN-Water (2014).

WWDR 2015

Framework for implementing The Future We Want

95

BOX

16.3

Text related to water and sanitation in the final report of the Open Working Group on SDGs
Introduction
Paragraph 7. Rio+20 outcome reaffirmed the need to be guided by the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United
Nations, with full respect for international law and its principles. It reaffirmed the importance of freedom, peace and security,
respect for all human rights, including the right to development and the right to an adequate standard of living, including
the right to food and water, the rule of law, good governance, gender equality, women’s empowerment and the overall
commitment to just and democratic societies for development.
Proposed goal 1. End poverty in all its forms everywhere
1.5 by 2030 build the resilience of the poor and those in vulnerable situations, and reduce their exposure and vulnerability to
climate-related extreme events and other economic, social and environmental shocks and disasters
Proposed goal 3. Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages
3.3 by 2030 end the epidemics of AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria, and neglected tropical diseases and combat hepatitis, waterborne diseases, and other communicable diseases
3.9 by 2030 substantially reduce the number of deaths and illnesses from hazardous chemicals and air, water, and soil
pollution and contamination
Proposed goal 6. Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all
6.1 by 2030, achieve universal and equitable access to safe and affordable drinking water for all
6.2 by 2030, achieve access to adequate and equitable sanitation and hygiene for all, and end open defecation, paying
special attention to the needs of women and girls and those in vulnerable situations
6.3 by 2030, improve water quality by reducing pollution, eliminating dumping and minimizing release of hazardous chemicals
and materials, halving the proportion of untreated wastewater, and increasing recycling and safe reuse by x% globally
6.4 by 2030, substantially increase water use efficiency across all sectors and ensure sustainable withdrawals and supply of
freshwater to address water scarcity, and substantially reduce the number of people suffering from water scarcity
6.5 by 2030 implement integrated water resources management at all levels, including through transboundary cooperation
as appropriate
6.6 by 2020 protect and restore water-related ecosystems, including mountains, forests, wetlands, rivers, aquifers and lakes
6.a by 2030, expand international cooperation and capacity-building support to developing countries in water- and
sanitation-related activities and programmes, including water harvesting, desalination, water efficiency, wastewater
treatment, recycling and reuse technologies
6.b support and strengthen the participation of local communities for improving water and sanitation management
Proposed goal 11. Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable
11.5 by 2030 significantly reduce the number of deaths and the number of affected people and decrease by y% the
economic losses relative to GDP caused by disasters, including water-related disasters, with the focus on protecting the
poor and people in vulnerable situations
Proposed goal 12. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns
12.4 by 2020 achieve environmentally sound management of chemicals and all wastes throughout their life cycle in
accordance with agreed international frameworks and significantly reduce their release to air, water and soil to minimize
their adverse impacts on human health and the environment
Proposed goal 15. Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage
forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and biodiversity loss
15.1 by 2020 ensure conservation, restoration and sustainable use of terrestrial and inland freshwater ecosystems
and their services, in particular forests, wetlands, mountains and drylands, in line with obligations under international
agreements
15.8 by 2020 introduce measures to prevent the introduction and significantly reduce the impact of invasive alien species
on land and water ecosystems, and control or eradicate the priority species
Source: UNGA (2014).

96

Chapter 16

RESPONSES AND IMPLEMENTATION

infrastructure will be a vital part of the foundations for
sustainable development, poverty alleviation and human
well-being irrespective of the post-2015 development
agenda outcome. Hence, water problems and water’s
inter-linkages to sustainable development will need to be
addressed for generations to come − even in the absence
of a dedicated water SDG in the post-2015 development
agenda.

16.3 Achieving The Future We Want
Sustainable development is recognized as the way to
collectively progress as a global society. But there are
many questions: How does one achieve success on such
an ambitious but somewhat ambiguous quest? How can
a balance be reached between different societal interests?
What and whose priorities should take precedence? What
trade-offs need to be made? Ban Ki-moon, United Nations
Secretary-General, speaks of the dilemma of sustainable
development and water, stating: “There is still enough water
for all of us – but only so long as we keep it clean, use
it more wisely and share it fairly” (Planet Under Pressure,
2012).
Water management and decisions affecting water will play
a key role in tackling the development challenges of the
twenty-first century, including urbanization, sustainable
industrial development and economic growth, eradicating
persistent poverty, ensuring food security, responding to
new patterns of consumption and conserving threatened
ecosystems.
Demand for water is increasing from all sectors, particularly
for energy, manufacturing industry and agriculture
in developing countries and emerging economies
(OECD, 2012a). The paradox is that water is essential
for development but at the same time development and
economic growth will put pressure on the resource and
challenge water security for humans and nature. There are
also major uncertainties about the precise amounts of water
required to meet the demand for food, energy and other
human uses, and to sustain ecosystems (see Section 1.4.4).
These uncertainties are further exacerbated by the impact
of climate change on available water resources (see Chapter
10).
Unfortunately, water management is far too often done
in hindsight. The real drivers of water demand and use
are mainly found in the need for more food, fodder and
fibre, energy production, mining of minerals, industry
and manufacturing, and for meeting increasing domestic
needs, especially in rapidly growing cities. The fact that
multi-uses of water are critical for development, combined
with its dispersed decision-making character, makes water

WWDR 2015

management the responsibility of many different decision
makers in public and private sectors. How can such shared
responsibility be turned into something constructive that
different parties can rally around to collectively make
informed decisions?
There are no quick fixes or silver bullets. It is equally
apparent that different societal contexts need to find their
own unique ways and apply their own measures to achieve
the future they want. Like the MDGs, the SDGs will continue
to provide government guidance and momentum for
development priorities as well as better alignment between
bilateral and multilateral donor organizations. Tensions
between multiple water priorities and entitlements will need
to be resolved contextually by water stakeholders on the
ground (Tremblay, 2011).
Vulnerability to climate change and other hazards −
including economic volatility − is highly inclined towards
the poor. It is the ‘bottom billion’ that suffers from lack of
access to services and from the most severe consequences
of natural and human-made disasters. A new grip on
poverty and a solid commitment to governance, risk
and security issues, and equity is required in the coming
decades. It must take into account investments needed in
infrastructure, institutional development, human capacities
and technological application and innovation.
16.3.1 Addressing the governance crisis:
Reorienting policy frameworks
The global water crisis is mainly one of governance (WWAP,
2006). Addressing the challenges related to water requires
changing the way we assess, manage and use our water
resources. Progress calls for engaging a broad range of
societal actors to take account of water in their decisionmaking processes and responses.
Research shows that essential governance features
incorporate inclusive structures that can enable effective
legal frameworks, reduction of inequality, open access
to systematically updated data and information, and
meaningful stakeholder participation (Planet Under Pressure,
2012). Inclusive governance structures recognize: the
dispersion of decision-making across various levels and
entities, from the local to the global level; gender and
socio-economic stakeholder aspects; and interdependencies
between public and private sectors. This is particularly
true for water, where the agents of change are numerous
and the drivers multiple. It is for example, imperative
to recognize women’s contributions to local water
management and their role in decision-making related
to water. Water aspects need to be clearly visible and

Framework for implementing The Future We Want

97

accounted for in decisions to promote food and energy
security.
Many paths to sustainable development are linked to water,
but the decisions that determine how water resources are
used or abused are largely driven by economic sectors.
Achieving the vision for the future of water (see Prologue)
will require reorienting policy frameworks significantly
to strengthen public policies and institutions, including
planning systems and decision-making processes.
During recent years many countries have re-oriented their
water policies towards an IWRM approach. Fundamentally,
the IWRM approach can be seen as a set of management
methodologies to achieve coordinated development and
management of water, land and related resources that
aims to achieve sustainable water development. It provides
a sound basis for countries to adopt more integrated

Many paths to sustainable
development are linked to water, but
the decisions that determine how
water resources are used or abused are
largely driven by economic sectors
decision-making that provides greater incentives for
sustainable development, with water as the catalyst for
progress (Planet Under Pressure, 2012). Yet, while some
countries have made great strides to implement various
aspects of IWRM, including, for example, decentralized
management and the creation of river basin organizations,
many others still face huge implementation problems and
water reform is stalling (WWAP, 2006 and 2009). While the
rationales for IWRM implementation have been too much
geared towards economic efficiency, there is a need to
put more emphasis on issues of equity and environmental
sustainability (WGF, 2012). For example, the use of human
rights-based approaches can sharpen the focus on equity
through targeted work on social, political and administrative
accountability, non-discrimination and rule of law (Tremblay,
2011).
Different scales require different solutions. Growing
demand for and use of water will have impacts beyond
country borders and make water a primary strategic
national resource. There are a number of transboundary
river commissions that mediate different country interests
and promote technical cooperation, such as the Mekong
River Commission, Zambezi Watercourse Commission,

98

Chapter 16

Irrigation channels carry water from its source to the top of the village,
Al Hamra', Ad Dakhiliyah (Oman)
Photo: Simon Monk

Orange-Senqu River Commission, and many more. There are
also many cases of bilateral and multilateral collaborations
and agreements. For example, the Grand Ethiopian
Renaissance Dam (GERD) for hydropower has created
downstream concerns, particularly in Egypt. In August 2014,
Egypt, Ethiopia and Sudan agreed to form a committee
to serve as a joint negotiation platform and to perform
independent studies on the impacts of the dam (FDRE,
2014). While all three countries have legitimate claims and
concerns, the dam will produce energy that can benefit the
entire region’s energy security. A regional perspective that
takes into account other ongoing economic collaborations
and broader trade issues (e.g. food and energy) can open up
space for more constructive negotiations and dialogues.
The need for taking broader political economy dynamics in
society into account is also illustrated by gender issues and
water. The advancement of gender equity would require
that organizations and agencies review not only their
own structures and practices, but also develop improved
understanding of the underlying power dynamics and
structural barriers that reinforce gender inequities in water
access, use and management. This would imply strategies
with greater focus on women’s solidarity and collective
action, and the inclusion of men and boys in the efforts

RESPONSES AND IMPLEMENTATION

towards changing values, attitudes and gender relations
(WGF, 2014).
The benefits of strengthened inclusive governance are
manifold, both in terms of providing enforcement tools
and through its impacts on political processes of allocation
and quality control. Inclusive governance helps: ensure
coherence of the normative framework of the water sector;
increases the accountability and transparency of its service
providers; promotes a comprehensive set of minimum
standards for water supply; prioritizes poor, marginalized
and vulnerable groups and strengthens their claims for
improved access to water; and provides effective monitoring,
assessment and enforcement mechanisms (Tremblay, 2011).
To achieve effective governance of water resources and
services, decision-makers and service providers need to
take responsibility for their decisions and the quality of
service. Accountability mechanisms can help to clarify the
commitments of actors involved in water governance and
lead to efficient management of fiscal resources. They
can also help protect water resources and increase control
over the actions of public and private stakeholders, while
ensuring adequate quality standards. According to a World
Bank study, unethical practices drain 30% of the budgets
within the WASH sector in sub-Saharan Africa (Plummer
and Cross, 2006). To be able to attract much of the funding
required for sustainable infrastructure development and
functional institutions, it will be increasingly important to
institute anti-corruption measures across water and related
economic sectors. Improving accountability will require
all decision-makers in government, the private sector and
civil society to recognize that being open and transparent,
engaging stakeholders, evaluating and learning, and
responding to complaints is crucial to their legitimacy and
effectiveness and to achieve long-lasting benefits to the
poor through sustainable water and sanitation interventions.
Accountability is at the heart of well-functioning regulatory
systems. The regulator holds to account water service
providers and industries, for example, by verifying
compliance with rules and regulations. Regulatory measures
can take the form of administrative and legal or economic
incentives. A wide range of measures exists to strengthen
social, administrative and political accountability, such as
public expenditure tracking, auditing, public access to water
utility budget and performance information, citizen report
cards, consumer redress mechanisms, establishment of
model contracts, and raising consumer awareness of their
rights and obligations. In Albania, for example, the providers
of water and sewerage services and their customers
established a so-called ‘model contract’. The contract

WWDR 2015

integrates the provisions of the consumer protection law
and those of the water and sewerage code. Developed
by the stakeholders in the sector, the contract covers
all standard elements such as terms of service, fees and
payments, metering, service interruptions and complaints,
handling them in a way that is fully compliant with all
applicable legislation. By the end of 2011, over 35,000
contracts, based on the model had been signed (including
new contracts and old ones replaced), representing around
16% of all serviced customers (WGF, 2013).
The above examples of policy reorientation are also
important for the next sections of this Chapter, which look

Investing in all aspects of water
resources management, services
provision and infrastructure can
be highly cost-effective
at reduced risks and increased security and how particular
water measures can address inequity aspects to a greater
extent.
16.3.2 Minimizing risk and maximizing water security
Water users face multiple risks, and securing access to water
is a fundamental requirement for various livelihood purposes.
Climate change and political and economic volatility
create additional risks. Responses can include a range of
measures to: expand, improve and reinforce infrastructure;
develop water use efficiency technologies; employ adaptive
management; and maintain ecosystem services and natural
infrastructure.
Investing in all aspects of water resources management,
services provision and infrastructure (development, operation
and maintenance) is beneficial to social and economic
development. The size of net benefits will be highly countryspecific as a function of its particular situation. Nevertheless,
current evidence suggests that even under the most
conservative estimates, historical spending on drinking
water supply and sanitation has been ‘highly cost-effective’
on health grounds alone (UNOSD/UNU, 2013). There is
also much evidence to suggest that investment in disaster
preparedness, improved water quality and wastewater
management are very cost-effective (UN-Water, 2014).
Distribution of costs and benefits among stakeholders is
crucial for financial feasibility (FAO, 2010). Decision-makers
can evaluate costs and benefits from a hydrological basin
viewpoint and appraise economic justification by taking

Framework for implementing The Future We Want

99

account of the benefits of multiple uses: domestic, industrial,
power and energy, agricultural and environmental. Financing
proposals can gauge various incentives or penalties in the
forms of water taxes, charges, subsidies, environmental
service payments, or soft loans, among others (FAO, 2010).

The complexity of any pricing of
water resources is compounded by the
fact that different users and uses are
very differently inserted into local
and global economies
Projects can focus on developing innovative financing
schemes, seek multiple financing partners among the
expected beneficiaries of investments and consider re-paying
contributors from the savings in public expenditures (2030
WRG, 2013).
For example, investing in ecosystem services can result in
significant cost savings in drinking water supply, improved
sanitation and wastewater management (see Chapter 4). It
costs US$235,000 per year to optimize waste treatment to
preserve the ecological integrity of the Nakivumbo swamp in
Uganda that provides water purification services for the city
of Kampala worth US$2 million annually (Russi et al., 2012).
Watershed management saves US$300 million every year
for New York City and avoided capital costs of US$5 billion
(Perrot-Maître and Davis, 2001).

areas of the world, and to intensify droughts in some
areas over certain seasons. Planning, preparedness and
coordinated responses − including floodplain management,
early warning systems and increased public awareness of
risk − have been shown to greatly improve the resilience
of communities to natural hazards. Blending structural and
non-structural flood management approaches is particularly
cost-effective (UN-Water, 2014).
Risks and various water-related security issues can also be
reduced by technical and social approaches. One example
is to treat wastewater as a resource. It is possible and
potentially beneficial to move beyond treating wastewater
as a costly by-product to be disposed of and explore paths
to valuing this otherwise discarded resource (FAO, 2010).
Not all water needs to be up to drinking quality standards;
it is a matter of distinguishing the right kind of treatment
for the right kind of use. There are a growing number of
examples of reclaimed wastewater being used in agriculture,
for irrigating municipal parks and fields, in industrial cooling
systems, and even in some cases, mixed in with drinking
water (2030 WRG, 2013). Biogas produced from wastewater
sludge is being used to power water treatment plants, public
transportation and city heating.

Investments can align with initiatives aimed at ‘greening the
economy’ through enabling synergies with local job creation
and national economic growth opportunities that focus
on the poor. It has been advanced that every US$1 million
invested in river restoration in the United States of America
creates 15 jobs as well as obvious public benefits in terms of
reduced pollution (Kantor, 2012). Pro-poor employment can
be a key element of community endorsement of a waterrelated project (2030 WRG, 2013).
Water-related disasters are the most economically and
socially destructive of all natural hazards. Economic losses
due to natural and human-induced water-related hazards
have increased greatly in the last decade, well beyond
reported immediate losses. Single water-related disasters
can even have repercussions on development on a multiannual to decadal scale. This situation is likely to become
exacerbated by climate change, which is anticipated to
increase the frequency of heavy precipitation over many
Young girl refills water pot, Korhogo, Savanes (Côte d´Ivoire)
Photo: UN Photo/Ky Chung

100

Chapter 16

RESPONSES AND IMPLEMENTATION

Increased water scarcity should lead to a questioning of the
propriety of using precious freshwater as a waste disposal
mechanism in flushing toilets. Focusing on access to WASH
and providing infrastructure to the worlds’ slums and
informal settlements provides an opportunity for intensive
innovation in moving away from the conventional flushtoilet/sewerage systems. The ever-increasing concentrations
of people in urban spaces can enable the deployment of
efficient, radically different technical solutions that may have
been unaffordable or unthinkable elsewhere (Planet Under
Pressure, 2012). The other challenge will be to educate and
persuade urban populations who may be reluctant to adopt
alternatives to conventional sewerage systems.
Existing global and national water resources assessments
are often inadequate for addressing twenty-first century
water demands and resolving increasing competition
among users, especially under conditions of increased
climatic variability. Thus, new approaches for comprehensive
assessments of water resources are urgently needed to
support complex decision-making. These assessments in turn
will require viable financing and capacity building, and they
will remain an essential tool for sustainable development
and monitoring progress towards achieving the SDGs in
particular.
Comprehensive water resources assessments require sound
scientific data on the status of hydrological basins and
groundwater resources, coupled with metrics concerning
water demand, withdrawals, consumption and discharges
by different users. Information regarding governance and
regulatory mechanisms, as well as gender-disaggregated
data on access to water resources and services also need to
be significantly expanded and shared among stakeholders.
Assessments are necessary in order to make informed
investment and management decisions, facilitate crosssector decision-making, and address compromises and
trade-offs between stakeholder groups.
To better inform work at all levels, the capacities to
measure, model and monitor relevant dimensions of use
and the sustainability of supplies need to be strengthened.
Transparent sharing of information enables participation
and trust, and is key for the successful implementation of
initiatives seeking behavioural change. For example, it has
been shown that consumer engagement and education
can lead to a greater public endorsement of demand-side
improvement projects even when they result in increased
water bills (2030 WRG, 2013).
Alongside GDP growth and other economy-wide indicators
such as GHG emissions, water accounting at the river
basin level has been proposed as a tool for the purpose of
overall water management and the generation of economic

WWDR 2015

assessments (UNDESA, 2012). There is also a need to
consider ecosystem services within such resource accounting
schemes, to establish the links between resource efficiency,
biodiversity and ecosystem services and the connection to
the social values of water (UNEP, 2012).
16.3.3 Equitable growth
The third group of issues that need to be addressed in
order to achieve the Future We Want relates to equity.
Indeed, social equity is one of the dimensions of sustainable
development that has been insufficiently addressed in
development and water policies (see Chapter 2). A fresh
commitment and sustained action to reduce poverty and
inequities is urgently needed in the post-2015 world.
In order to achieve universal access to water and sanitation,
there is a need for accelerated progress in disadvantaged
groups and to ensure non-discrimination in WASH service
provision. Pronounced disparities between regions, rural
and urban areas, and socio-economic groups are welldocumented (WHO and UNICEF, 2014a). Even in countries
where service coverage is near universal, certain minority
groups may be neglected (see Section 5.3).
Whereas services at the general level are far less available
in rural areas, there has been an increase in the number
of people without access to water and sanitation in urban
areas (see chapters 5 and 6). The situation relates to the
rapid growth of slums and the inability or unwillingness
of local and national governments to provide adequate
facilities for impoverished urban communities. People living
in the world’s slums (estimated to reach nearly 900 million
by 2020 (UN-Habitat, 2010) are more vulnerable to extreme
weather events and more likely to suffer from the lack
access to safe water and sanitation. However, as described
in section 6.2.1, innovative solutions such as functioning
water kiosks have been shown to significantly improve
access to drinking water supplies in informal settlements.
Local and national authorities need to find ways to
cross the institutional boundaries produced by policies
or regulation that impede service provision to informal
areas. Useful starting points for this can involve building on
existing solutions and actor constellations to find ways to
incrementally improve the situation – in dialogue with users
and providers. Determination can also be highly beneficial to
increasing coverage, as exemplified in the case of pro-poor
policies in Uganda (see Box 6.1).
Sustainable development and human rights perspectives
both call for reductions in inequities and tackling disparities
in access to services (UNGA, 2013). This calls for a

Framework for implementing The Future We Want

101

reorientation of investment priorities and operational
procedures to provide services and allocate water more
equitably in society. Greater equity is not only a moral
imperative; it also stands to improve the economy (see
Chapters 2 and 3) (WHO, 2012b). Yet, despite the potential
for sizeable returns on investment, adequate financing has
not yet been attained in many settings.
Prioritizing investments in the provision of basic services
unlocks the potential for economic growth and breaks
the vicious cycle of low productivity linked to poor health
and lack of education opportunities that preserves poverty.
Where benefits such as reduced disease prevalence accrue to
society rather than to the investor, regulatory measures may
be needed to guide investments towards the greatest return
for society.
Regulators ensure that service providers act in coherence
with water sector policies. This is important for
accountability. Social objectives may be high on the political
agenda of most developing countries, yet they tend to be
poorly followed up in regulatory practices. This may be a
consequence of importing regulatory frameworks from
economies where services are already provided to all citizens,
and where coverage is consequently not an issue (Gerlach
and Franceys, 2010). Equity needs to be kept as a priority at
several policy levels and, in particular, followed through by
regulatory measures.
In order to maximize the benefits, services should be
provided close to or ideally within the home, not only to
conveniently support good hygiene and health, but in
order to ensure that time can be used more productively.
Opportunity costs are an important contributor to the overall
return on these investments (WHO, 2012b). Further, having
facilities in or nearer to the home is also important from
a safety perspective, as women and girls in particular may
face harassment and violence when collecting water, when
using communal toilet facilities or when undertaking open
defecation in the evenings.
Beyond water, access to electricity can have tremendous
positive effects on education achievement as it provides
the opportunity for studies after dark. Moving up the
energy ladder and the use of cleaner fuels for cooking and
heating also has very positive effects in reducing respiratory
disease, particularly for women who tend to be those
responsible for cooking, and for the children who tend
to be present in smoky environments with their mothers.
The same people who lack access to improved water and
sanitation are likely to lack access to electricity and to rely
on solid fuel for cooking (WWAP, 2014). The demonstrated

102

Chapter 16
1	

economic benefits of investing in basic services have a direct
correlation with the alleviation of poverty.
The economic benefits of prioritizing equity and poverty
eradication can also be discerned in the adequate
prioritizing of investments in the area of agriculture. As
presented in Chapter 3, the internal rate of return on
investing in large-scale irrigation in central Africa was
calculated at 12%, while the figure for investing in smallscale irrigation in the Sahel stood at 33%. Policies to support
income generation for small-scale producers are not only
fair; they also stimulate economic growth in rural areas. As
suggested in the previous section, to ensure that equitable
water allocation is followed through, greater accountability,
transparency and not least participation is required to avoid
resources being captured by powerful minorities.
The allocation of water between users and between
different types of uses, like agriculture, industry or
municipal demands, is usually managed through systems of
administrative permits. Water pricing also provides signals
on how to allocate scarce water resources to the highestvalue uses – in financial terms or other types of benefits.
Still, the complexity of any pricing of water resources is
compounded by the fact that different users and uses are
very differently inserted into local and global economies.
Indeed, the contribution to the economy and benefits
created by subsistence farming or commercial agriculture is
difficult to compare with any simple parameters. Equitable
pricing and water permits would need to adequately assure
that abstraction as well as releases of used water support
efficient operations and environmental sustainability. This
can be done in ways that are adapted to the abilities and
needs of industry and larger-scale irrigation as well as the
small-scale and subsistence farming activities.
The human right to water and sanitation requires that
all persons have sufficient, safe, acceptable, physically
accessible and affordable water for personal and domestic
uses without discrimination (UN, 2002). Discrimination over
access takes place whenever lower priority in investment
or service delivery is provided to residents lacking social,
economic or cultural clout over those with power to decide.
Affordability can be determined in several ways, e.g. as a
proportion of a household’s income, though there is no
generalized agreement on the appropriate proportion (Dar
and Khan, 2011).
In the area of service delivery, prices or tariffs are usually
linked to volumetric measures of water. Yet, prices in this
area do not represent the scarcity value of the water as such
but the cost of its delivery in a clean state. In many places,

RESPONSES AND IMPLEMENTATION

water services are under-priced, resulting in poor service
delivery, low maintenance of existing infrastructure and the
lack of extension to new service areas, as service providers
are not fully compensated for the cost of service delivery.
Low tariffs are at times justified by poor people’s inability
to pay. Low tariffs may have the effect of limiting the scope
of services, however, and tend to exclude low-income
populations from public water services. This contradiction
is partly due to under-pricing which precludes network
extension and hence permeates historic inequalities of
public water systems catering to powerful minorities rather
than the public at large and more recent settlers. The other
part of this contradiction relates to the fact that many poor
households still pay significant amounts of money to receive
water. Since the public system is not responding to this
demand, independent or informal providers tend to be the
main suppliers of water in informal, low-income or periurban areas. In these situations, the poorest pay more for
water, sometimes of a lower quality, than the rich.
In a piped water system, it is the access to a connection
which determines who has access or not to a service. In
order to provide access for the poor, it is more important to
subsidize, or amortize over time, the cost of the connection
rather than the cost of water as such. As suggested above,
the tariff price for piped water may be magnitudes lower
than that from other supply sources. As a result, people
excluded from piped water services may be purchasing water
from mobile vendors or even paying for water they have
to collect themselves at kiosks. This speaks for a pro-poor
pricing policy to keep effective connection costs as low as
possible, while ensuring that water use is paid for at a level
that supports maintenance and potentially even expansion
of the system. Where affordability is still an issue, it is
preferable to support those who are unable to pay rather
than to lower the price of water to everyone, particularly as
it may only be the wealthiest that benefit from such a policy.
Serious concern about the increasingly inequitable division
of resources and income in the world has been voiced by
economic leaders and development agencies. The World
Economic Forum identified ‘widening income disparities’
as an important trend and major global risk (WEF, 2014a
and 2014b). Oxfam finds these extreme levels of wealth
concentration to be damaging and worrying, not least
because “when wealth captures government policymaking,
the rules bend to favour the rich, often to the detriment of
everyone else” (Fuentes-Nieva and Galasso, 2014). Wealth
concentration can also skew water policies and supply
priorities, as shown in a mapping research project in Nairobi,
Kenya. Here, the water provider pumps more water to the

WWDR 2015

Girls washing and cleaning at the Lycée Regina Pacis (Burundi)
Photo: SuSanA Secretariat

never-rationed upper and high-consuming areas, testifying
that “despite recent apparent concerns for the poor,
servicing the wealthy high consumers who consume and pay
more and are more politically influential is still prioritized”
(Ledant et al., 2013).
Present water tariffs are commonly far too low to actually
limit excessive water use by wealthy households or
industry. While it is important that pricing policies reward
users for saving water, responsible use may at times be
more effectively fostered through awareness- raising and
appealing to the common good. Pricing signals need to be
supported by awareness-raising and information in order to
work towards a cohesive society that collaborates around
the wisest possible use of water – cherished and shared
equitably within the present and towards future generations.
Again, sustainable development needs to work with the
economic, social and environmental dimensions coherently
to ensure the mutual reinforcement of social equity,
economic growth and sustainability.

Framework for implementing The Future We Want

103

Epilogue
Water for a sustainable world
WWAP | Richard Connor
UNDP | Contributors: Joakim Harlin, Marianne Kjellén and Håkan Tropp

In the sustainable world of 2050 envisioned in the Prologue
of this Report, water resources are managed and waterrelated services provided in support of human wellbeing
and ecosystem integrity in a robust and equitable global
economy. This vision is attainable, but only if the required
efforts are deployed, supported by a number of concrete
actions, all of which are interrelated and mutually
reinforcing.
First, appropriate legal and institutional frameworks are
required in order to guarantee that water resources are
managed and used sustainably. These include laws and

Decisions that determine how
water resources are used (or abused)
are not made by water managers
alone, but driven by various
socio-economic development
objectives and the operational
decisions to achieve them
regulations whose enforcement ensure a secure balance
between water availability and use, and protect the resource
against pollution and over-abstraction for the security of
future generations.
Second, there is an urgent need to increase access to WASH
services, and improve existing service levels. Reflecting
the established principles of the human right to water and
sanitation, as recognized in Resolution 64/292 of the UN
General Assembly in July 2010, governments need to adopt
ambitious targets for improving WASH service levels in order
to reduce the global burden of WASH-related diseases, to
improve productivity and economic growth, and to reduce
inequalities between population groups.
Third, increased investment and financial support for water
development is essential. When efficiently and transparently
managed, investments in water generate social, economic,

104

Epilogue

financial and other benefits that greatly outweigh its costs.
In addition to adequately financing the development,
operation and maintenance of infrastructure, increased
funding is also needed in order to develop institutional
capacity and ensure well-functioning governance structures.
Greater financial support is equally essential to enhance
the knowledge base and provide reliable and objective
information about the state of water resources, their
use and management, to enable water managers and
administrators to inform decision-makers about policy
options and their potential impacts.
Fourth, managing and allocating water across competing
developmental sectors to meet multiple challenges is
required to ensure that benefits created for one group of
stakeholders do not disadvantage others. Water needs
to be at the centre of a multisectorial dialogue, which
includes decision-making processes and mechanisms for
conflict resolution within the context of national interministerial bodies and multilateral agencies, and in the
case of transboundary waters. Decisions that determine
how water resources are used (or abused) are not made
by water managers alone, but driven by various socioeconomic development objectives and the operational
decisions to achieve them. Progress towards sustainable
development requires engaging a broad range of actors in
government, civil society and business to assure that water is
taken into account in their decision-making and to promote
cooperation across disciplines, sectors and borders.
The development of the post-2015 SDGs provides a critical
opportunity to generate progress. Achieving the SDGs
by 2030 will require a concerted effort across multiple
domains and sectors, and water will need to be recognized
as the nexus through which various SDGs and other
development objectives are linked. Water efficiency gains
in one domain can help relieve constraints in others, and
contribute to the realization and sharing of greater benefits
to society. For example, the health and livelihood benefits
of access to safe water supplies and improved sanitation
services is incontrovertible. Water management responses
that maximize co-benefits can reduce risks, but these
require coordinated approaches. Taking full account of the
opportunities and limitations imposed by water on various

other development goals would lead to cross-cutting
synergies among sectors and actors, allowing progress to
continue beyond the 2030 milestone.
Whereas poverty eradication and the reduction of inequities
remain at the core of the concerns of the UN system,
governments have obligations towards the of their citizens.
To contribute towards a water-secure, fair and sustainable
world, the UN system will need to continue to provide
and promote leadership addressing the full range of goals
and targets in the post-2015 world. Particular emphasis
is needed on: universal access to water, sanitation and
hygiene; the sustainable use and development of water
resources; equitable, participatory and accountable water
governance; increased reuse and reduced pollution from

wastewater; maintaining ecosystem services; and reduced
human and economic losses from water-related disasters.
Specifically addressing these critical issues through a
dedicated global SDG for water with specific and measurable
targets will trigger national governments and the global
community to take action and track progress over a much
broader set of water-related challenges than was considered
under the MDGs. Each of these challenges is fundamental
to sustainable development, just as most other sustainable
development goals are in some way water dependent.
Addressing these water-related challenges within the SDG
process represents an inescapable intermediate step towards
achieving the 2050 vision for water in a sustainable world.

Students at public school in Taliko neighbourhood, Bamako (Mali)
Photo: UN Photo/Marco Dormino
WWDR 2015

105

References

2030 WRG (2030 Water Resources Group). 2009. Charting our water future: Economic frameworks to inform decision-making.
Washington, DC, 2030 WRG.
_____. 2013. Managing Water Use in Scarce Environments: A Catalogue of Case Studies. Washington, DC, 2030 WRG.
http://www.waterscarcitysolutions.org/assets/WRG-Managing-Water-Scarcity-Catalogue.pdf

A

ACET (African Centre for Economic Transformation). 2014. 2014 African Transformation Report: Adding Depth to Africa’s Growth.
Accra, ACET.
AfDB (African Development Bank Group). 2010. Agriculture Sector Strategy 2010-2014. Agriculture and Agro-industry Department
and Operational Resources and Policies Department. Tunis, AfDB.
Africa Progress Panel. 2014. Africa Progress Report 2014: Grain, Fish, Money – Financing Africa’s Green and Blue Revolutions.
Geneva, Switzerland, Africa Progress Panel.
AU (African Union), 2004. Sirte Declaration on the Challenges of Implementing Integrated and Sustainable Development on Agriculture
and Water in Africa. Assembly of the African Union, Second Extraordinary Session, 27 February 2004. Addis Ababa, AU.
_____. 2008. Sharm El-Sheikh Commitments for Accelerating the Achievement of Water and Sanitation Goals in Africa. Assembly of
the African Union, Eleventh Ordinary Session, 1 July 2008. Addis Ababa, AU.
_____. 2014. Decision on the Report on the Implementation of Sharm El-Sheikh Commitments on Accelerating Water and Sanitation
Goals in Africa. Assembly of the African Union, Twenty-second Ordinary Session, 30-31 January 2014. Addis Ababa, AU.
Africare, Oxfam America and WWF-ICRISAT. 2010. More Rice for People, More Water for the Planet. WWF-ICRISAT Project,
Hyderabad, India.
Alavian, V., Qaddumi, H.M., Dickson, E., Diez, S.M., Danilenko, A.V., Hirji, R.F., Puz, G., Pizarro, C., Jacobsen, M. and Blankespoor, B. 2009.
Water and Climate Change: Understanding the Risks and Making Climate-Smart Investment Decisions. Washington, DC, The World Bank.
Alexandratos, N. and Bruinsma, J. 2012. World agriculture towards 2030/2050: The 2012 revision. ESA Working Paper No. 12-03.
Rome, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO).
AMCOW (African Ministers’ Council on Water). 2008. The eThekwini Declaration and AfricaSan Action Plan. Made at the AfriSan+5
Conference on Sanitation and Hygiene. February 2008, Abuja, AMCOW.
http://www.wsp.org/sites/wsp.org/files/publications/eThekwiniAfricaSan.pdf
_____. 2011. AMCOW Country Status Overviews – Regional Synthesis Report. Pathways to Progress: Transitioning to Country-Led
Service Delivery Pathways to Meet Africa’s Water Supply and Sanitation Targets. Washington, DC, The World Bank/Water and
Sanitation Program.
http://www.wsp.org/wsp/content/pathways-progress-status-water-and-sanitation-africa.
Arab Water Council. 2012. Arab Strategy for Water Security in the Arab Region to Meet the Challenges and Future Needs for
Sustainable Development 2010-2030. Cairo, Arab Water Council.
ARCADIS/Ecologic/Intersus/Fresh Thoughts/Typsa. 2012. The role of water pricing and water allocation in agriculture in delivering
sustainable water use in Europe. Final Report for the European Commission. Brussels, ARCADIS.
ASCE (American Society of Civil Engineers). 2011. Failure to Act: The economic impact of current investment trends in water and
wastewater treatment infrastructure. Washington, DC, ASCE.
Assevero, V.A. and Chitre, S.P. 2012. Rio 20 - An Analysis of the Zero Draft and the Final Outcome Document 'The Future We Want'.
New York, The Green Impresario.
http://ssrn.com/abstract=2177316

B

Bahri, A. 2009. Managing the Other Side of the Water Cycle: Making Wastewater an Asset. GWP-TEC Background Paper No. 13.
Stockholm, Global Water Partnership (GWP).
Bain, R., Cronk, R., Hossain, R., Bonjour, S., Onda, K., Wright, J., Yang, H., Slaymaker, T., Hunter, P., Prüss-Ustün, A. and
Bartram, J.2014. Global assessment of exposure to faecal contamination through drinking water based on a systematic review.
Tropical Medicine and International Health, 19(8): 917-927.

106

REferences

Barker, R., van Koppen, B. and Shah, T. 2000. A global perspective on water scarcity and poverty: Achievements and challenges for
water resources management. Colombo, Sri Lanka, International Water Management Institute (IWMI).
Barnard, S., Routray, P., Majorin, F., Peletz, R., Boisson, S., Sinha, A. and Clasen, T. 2013. Impact of Indian Total Sanitation Campaign
on Latrine Coverage and Use: A Cross-Sectional Study in Orissa Three Years following Programme Implementation. PLoS One, 8(8):
e71438.
Barrantes, G. and Gámez, L. 2007. Programa de Pago de por Servicio Ambiental Hidrico de la Empresa de Servicios Publicos de
Heredia. G. Platais and S. Pagiola (eds), Ecomarkets: Costa Rica’s Experience with Payments for Environmental Services. Washington,
DC, The World Bank.
Bartone, C.R. 2011. From Fear of Cholera to Full Wastewater Treatment in Two Decades in Santiago, Chile. Washington, DC, The World Bank.
Bates, B.C., Kundzewicz, Z.W., Wu, S. and Palutikof, J.P. 2008. Climate Change and Water. Technical Paper of the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Geneva, Switzerland, IPCC Secretariat.
Baum, R., Luh, J. and Bartram, J. 2013. Sanitation: A Global Estimate of Sewerage Connections without Treatment and the Resulting
Impact on MDG Progress. Environmental Science & Technology, 47(4): 1994-2000.
Beisheim, M. 2013. The Water, Energy and Food Security Nexus: How to Govern Complex Risks to Sustainable Supply?
SWP Comments 32. Berlin, German Institute for International and Security Affairs (SWP).
Beven, K. 2008. Environmental Modelling: An Uncertain Future? London, Routeledge.
Biswas, A. and Tortajada, C. 2010. Water Supply of Phnom Penh: An Example of Good Governance. International Journal of Water
Resources Development, 26 (2): 157-172.
Boelee, E. (ed.). 2011. Ecosystems for water and food security. Nairobi/Colombo, United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP)/
International Water Management Institute (IWMI).
Bohoslavsky, J.P. 2010. Tratados de protección de las inversiones e implicaciones para la formulación de políticas públicas (especial
referencia a los servicios de agua potable y saneamiento). Santiago, Chile, United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America
and the Caribbean (UNECLAC).
http://www.cepal.org/publicaciones/xml/4/40484/Lcw326e.pdf
Bonn2011 Nexus Conference. 2012. Messages from the Bonn 2011 Conference: The Water, Energy and Food Security Nexus –
Solutions for a Green Economy.
http://www.water-energy-food.org/en/conference.html
Brander, L. and Schuyt, K. 2010. Benefits transfer: The economic value of the world's wetlands. The Economics of Ecosystems and
Biodiversity (TEEB).
http://www.teebweb.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/01/The-economic-value-of-the-worlds-wetlands.pdf
Bréthaut, C. and Pflieger, G. 2013. The shifting territorialities of the Rhone River’s transboundary governance: A historical analysis
of the evolution of the functions, uses and spatiality of river basin governance. Regional Environmental Change, October 2013.
Springer Berlin Heidelberg.
Brugnach, M., Dewulf, A., Pahl-Wostl, C. and Taillieu, T. 2008. Toward a Relational Concept of Uncertainty: About Knowing Too Little,
Knowing Too Differently, and Accepting Not to Know. Ecology and Society, 13(2): 30.
Buytaert, W., Baez, S., Bustamante, M. and Dewulf, A. 2012. Web-Based Environmental Simulation: Bridging the Gap between
Scientific Modeling and Decision-Making. Environmental Science & Technology, 46(4): 1971-1976.

C

CBD (Convention on Biological Diversity). 2014. Ecosystem Approach.
http://www.cbd.int/ecosystem/
Chiplunkar, A., Kallidaikurichi, S. and Cheon Kheong, T. (eds). 2012. Good Practices in urban water management: Decoding good
practices for a successful future. Mandaluyong City, Philippines, Asian Development Bank (ADB).
Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture. 2007. Water for Food, Water for Life: A Comprehensive
Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture. London/Colombo, Earthscan/International Water Management Institute (IWMI).
Corcoran, E., Nellemann, C., Baker, E., Bos, R., Osborn, D. and Savelli, H. (eds). 2010. Sick Water? The central role of wastewater
management in sustainable development. A Rapid Response Assessment. Nairobi/Arendal, Kenya/Norway, United Nations
Environment Programme (UNEP)/United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat)/GRID-Arendal.
http://www.grida.no/publications/rr/sickwater/
Costanza, R., de Groot, R., Sutton, P., van der Ploeg, S., Anderson, S.J., Kubiszewski, I., Farber, S. and Turner, R.K. 2014. Changes in
the global value of ecosystem services. Global Environmental Change, 26: 152-158.
CRED (Centre for Research on the Epidemiology of Disasters). 2014. EM-DAT, the International Disaster Database. Brussels, Université
Catholique de Louvain.
http://www.emdat.be/database

WWDR 2015

107

D

Dar, O.A. and Khan, M.S. 2011. Millennium development goals and the water target: Details, definitions and debate. Tropical
Medicine and International Health, 16: 540-544.
Deloitte. 2012. Ripple Effects: Why water is a CFO issue. CFO Insights. Westlake, Texas, USA, Deloitte University Press.
http://deloitte.wsj.com/cfo/files/2012/08/Why_Water_is_a_CFO_Issue.pdf
Dini, J. 2013. Investing in Ecological Infrastructure: Nature Delivering Services. Silverton, South Africa, South African National
Biodiversity Institute (SANBI).
Donat Castelló, L., Gil-González, D., Alvarez-Dardet Diaz, C. and Hernández-Aguado, I. 2010. The environmental millennium
development goal: Progress and barriers to its achievement. Environmental Science and Policy, 13(2): 154-163.
Donat, M.G. et al. 2014. Changes in extreme temperature and precipitation in the Arab region: Long-term trends and variability
related to ENSO and NAO. International Journal of Climatology, 34(3): 581-592.

E

EC (European Commission). 2011. Roadmap to a Resource Efficient Europe. Brussels, EC. COM(2011) 571 final.
http://ec.europa.eu/resource-efficient-europe/
_____. 2012. Elements of strategic programming for the period 2014-2020. Working paper prepared in the context of the Seminar on
"Successful Programming" EAFRD 2014-2020. Brussels, EC.
ECA (European Court of Auditors). 2012. European Union Development Assistance for Drinking Water Supply and Basic Sanitation in
Sub-Saharan Countries. Special Report No.13. Luxembourg, Publications of the European Union.
http://www.europarl.europa.eu/meetdocs/2009_2014/documents/droi/dv/1405_specialreport_/1405_specialreport_en.pdf
_____. 2014. Integration of EU water policy objectives with the CAP: A partial success. Special Report No. 4. Luxembourg, Publications
Office of the European Union.
ECCAS (Economic Community of Central African States). 2010. Etude sur l’interconnexion des réseaux électriques des pays membres
de la CEEAC. RSW International/SOGREAH. Synthesis Report. Libreville, ECCAS Publication.
EEA (European Environment Agency). 2009. Report on good practice measures for climate change adaptation in river basin
management plans. Prepared by Cornelius Laaser, Anna Leipprand, Colette de Roo and Rodrigo Vidaurre. Copenhagen, Ecologic
Institute.
Emerton, L. and Bos, E. 2004. Value: Counting Ecosystems as Water Infrastructure. Gland/Cambridge, Switzerland/UK, International
Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN).
EPA (Environmental Protection Agency). 2014. Natural Infrastructure.
http://www.epa.gov/region03/green/infrastructure.html
Ercin, A.E. and Hoekstra, A.Y. 2012. Carbon and Water Footprints: Concepts, Methodologies and Policy Responses. WWDR4 Side
Publication Series No. 04. Paris, UNESCO.
EU (European Union). 2000. EU Water Framework Directive. Directive 2000/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of
23 October 2000 establishing a framework for Community action in the field of water policy. Official Journal 327, 22/12/2000,
P. 001-0073.
EU, OECD and UNECE (European Union Water Initiative/EECCA, Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, and
United Nations Economic Commission for Europe). 2014. Water Policy Reforms in Eastern Europe, the Caucasus and Central Asia.
Achievements of the European Union Water Initiative since 2006.

F

FAO (Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations). 2002. Project intégré Keita. Rapport terminal du project. Project GCP/
NER/032/ITA. Rome, FAO.
_____. 2007. Towards a New Understanding of Forests and Water. Unasylva, 58: 229. Rome, FAO.
_____. 2008. Water and the rural poor: Interventions for improving livelihoods in sub-Saharan Africa. Rome, FAO
ftp://ftp.fao.org/docrep/fao/010/i0132e/i0132e.pdf
_____. 2010. The Wealth of Waste: The economics of wastewater use in agriculture. Rome, FAO.
_____. 2011a. The State of the World's Land and Water Resources for Food and Agriculture: Managing systems at risk. London/Rome,
Earthscan/FAO.
http://www.fao.org/docrep/017/i1688e/i1688e.pdf
_____. 2011b. Water management: Technologies that save and grow. Factsheet 4: Sustainable crop production intensification (SCPI).
Rome, FAO.
_____. 2011c. The State of Food and Agriculture 2010–2011: Women in agriculture: Closing the gender gap for development. Rome, FAO.
http://www.fao.org/docrep/013/i2050e/i2050e.pdf
_____. 2012a. Food Security and Agricultural Water. Rome, FAO.

108

REferences

_____. 2012b. Coping with water scarcity: An action framework for agriculture and food security. FAO Water Reports 38. Rome, FAO.
http://www.fao.org/docrep/016/i3015e/i3015e.pdf
_____. 2013a. Reviewed Strategic Framework. Thirty-eighth Session of the Conference. Rome, 11-22 June 2013.
http://www.fao.org/docrep/meeting/027/mg015e.pdf
_____. 2013b. The Director-General’s Medium-Term Plan 2014-17 and Programme of Work and Budget 2014-15. Thirty-eighth Session
of the Conference. Rome, 11-22 June 2013.
http://www.fao.org/docrep/meeting/027/mf490e.pdf
_____. 2014a. Building a common vision for sustainable food and agriculture: Principles and Approaches. Rome, FAO.
http://www.fao.org/3/919235b7-4553-4a4a-bf38-a76797dc5b23/i3940e.pdf
_____. 2014b. Adapting to climate change through land and water management in Eastern Africa. Rome, FAO.
http://www.fao.org/3/a-i3781e.pdf
FAO AQUASTAT. Online Database. Rome, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO).
http://www.fao.org/nr/water/aquastat/main/index.stm
Farber, S.C., Costanza, R. and Wilson, M.A. 2002. Economic and ecological concepts for valuing ecosystem services. Ecology
Economics, 41: 375-392.
FDRE (Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia). 2014. Ministry of Foreign Affairs Website.
http://www.mfa.gov.et/news/more.php?newsid=3432
Foster, S. and Garduño, H. 2004. China: Towards sustainable groundwater resource use for irrigated agriculture on the North China
Plain. Sustainable Groundwater Management Lessons, Practice Case Profile Collection No. 8. Washington, DC,
The World Bank.
Foster, V. and Briceño-Garmendia, C. (eds). 2010. Africa’s infrastructure: A Time for transformation. Washington, DC, Agence
Française du Développement/The World Bank.
Freeman, M.C., Stocks, M.E., Cumming, O., Jeandron, A., Higgins, J.P., Wolf, J., Prüss-Ustün, A., Bonjour, S., Hunter, P.R., Fewtrell, L. and
Curtis, V. 2014. Hygiene and health: Systematic review of handwashing practices worldwide and update of health effects. Tropical
Medicine and International Health, 19(8):906-916.
Fuentes-Nieva, R. and Galasso, N. 2014. Working for the Few: Political capture and economic inequality. Oxford, UK, Oxfam International.

G

Gerlach, E. and Franceys, R. 2010. Regulating Water Services for All in Developing Economies. World Development, 38: 1229-1240.
Giordano, M., de Fraiture, C., Weight, E. and van der Bliek, J. 2012. Water for wealth and food security: Supporting farmerdriven investments in agricultural water management. Synthesis Report of the AgWater Solutions Project. Colombo, Sri Lanka,
International Water Management Institute (IWMI).
Glassman, D., Wucker, M., Isaacman, T. and Champilou, C. 2011. The Water-Energy Nexus: Adding Water to the Energy Agenda.
World Policy Papers. New York/Zurich, USA/Switzerland, World Policy Institute (WPI)/EBG Capital.
Gleeson, T., Wada, Y., Bierkens, M.F.P. and van Beek, L.P.H. 2012. Water balance of global aquifers revealed by groundwater footprint.
Nature, 488: 197-200, doi:10.1038/nature11295.
Government of Canada, 2014. First Nations Water Infrastructure. Canada’s Economic Action Plan 2014.
http://actionplan.gc.ca/en/initiative/first-nations-water-infrastructure
Government of Kazakhstan. 2014a. Presidential Decree signed 20 May 2014. Transition to Green Economy. Strategy Kazakhstan 2050.
Astana, Ministry of Environmental Protection.
_____. 2014b. State Programme Integrated Water Resources Management.
Government of Pakistan. 2012. Pakistan Economic Survey 2010-11. Special Section 2: Flood Impact Assessment. Islamabad, Ministry
of Finance.
http://www.finance.gov.pk/survey_1011.html
Govardhan Das, S. V. and Burke, J. 2013. Smallholders and sustainable wells. A Retrospect: Participatory Groundwater Management
in Andhra Pradesh (India). Rome, FAO.
http://www.fao.org/docrep/018/i3320e/i3320e.pdf
Grey D. and Sadoff C.W. 2007. Sink or Swim? Water security for growth and development. Water Policy, 9: 545-571.
Groundwater Governance. n.d.
http://www.groundwatergovernance.org/
Gura, T. 2013. Citizen science: Amateur experts. Nature, 496(7444): 259-261.

WWDR 2015

109

GWP (Global Water Partnership). 2012. Groundwater Resources and Irrigated Agriculture: Making a Beneficial Relation More
Sustainable. Stockholm, GWP.
http://www.gwp.org/Global/The%20Challenge/Resource%20material/Perspectives%20Paper_Groundwater_web.pdf

H

Hallegatte, S., Green, R., Nicholls, R.J. and Corfee-Morlot, J. 2013. Future flood losses in major coastal cities. Nature Climate Change,
3: 802-806.
Hantke-Domas, M. and Jouravlev, A. 2011. Lineamientos de política pública para el sector de agua potable y saneamiento. LC/W.400,
June 2011. Santiago, Chile, United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (UNECLAC).
http://www.cepal.org/publicaciones/xml/1/43601/Lcw400e.pdf
Heltberg, R., Siegel, P. B. and Jorgensen, S. L. 2009. Addressing human vulnerability to climate change: Toward a `no-regrets’
approach. Global Environmental Change, 19: 89-99.
Hipsey, M.R. and Arheimer, B. 2013. Challenges for water-quality research in the new IAHS decade. B. Arheimer et al. (eds).
Understanding freshwater quality problems in a changing world. Wallingford, UK, International Association of Hydrological
Sciences (IAHS) Press, 361: 17-29.
Hirschman, A. 1958. The Strategy of Economic Development. New Haven, USA, Yale University Press.
HLPE (High Level Panel of Experts on Food Security and Nutrition). 2013. Biofuels and food security: A report by The High Level Panel
of Experts on Food Security and Nutrition. HLPE Report 5. Rome, HLPE.
Hoekstra, A.Y. and Chapagain, A.K. 2006. Water footprints of nations: Water use by people as a function of their consumption
pattern. Water Resource Management, 21: 35-48.
doi: 10.1007/s11269-006-9039-x.
Hoekstra, A.Y., Chapagain, A.K., Aldaya, M.M. and Mekonnen, M.M. 2011. The Water Footprint Assessment manual: Setting the
global standard. London/Washington, DC, Earthscan.
http://www.waterfootprint.org/downloads/TheWaterFootprintAssessmentManual.pdf
Hutton, G. 2013. Global costs and benefits of reaching universal coverage of sanitation and drinking-water supply. Journal of Water
and Health, 11(1): 1-12.

I

ICARDA/GEF/IFAD (International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas/Global Environment Facility/International Fund
for Agricultural Development). 2013. Rehabilitating Irrigation canals and olive trees boosts farmer income in Jordan. MENARID
Gateway, Knowledge Fact Sheet.
http://southsouthworld.org/office/images/Session_Files-IFAD/Solutions%20submitted%20by%20THE%20FIELD/Rehabilitating%20
irrigation%20in%20Jordan.pdf
ICMM (International Council on Mining and Metals). 2012. Water management in mining: A selection of case studies. London, ICMM.
http://www.icmm.com/www.icmm.com/water-case-studies
ICPDR (International Commission for the Protection of the Danube River). 1999. Danube Pollution Reduction Programme: Evaluation
of Wetlands and Floodplain Areas in the Danube River Basin. Final Report. Germany, United Nations Development Programme/
Global Environment Facility (UNDP/GEF)/WWF-Danube-Carpathina-Programme/WWF-Auen-Institut.
http://www.icpdr.org/main/sites/default/files/EVALUATIONWETLANDSFLOODPLAINAREAS.pdf
ICPDR/SRBC (International Commission for the Protection of the Danube River/International Sava River Basin Commission). 2007. Joint
Statement on Guiding Principles for the Development of Inland Navigation and Environmental Protection in the Danube River Basin.
Vienna, ICPDR.
IEA (International Energy Agency). 2011. The IEA Model of Short-term Energy Security (MOSES) Primary Energy Sources and
Secondary Fuels. Working Paper. Paris, OECD/IEA.
_____. 2012. World Energy Outlook 2012. Paris, OECD/IEA.
http://www.worldenergyoutlook.org/
_____. 2013. World Energy Outlook 2013. Paris, OECD/IEA.
http://www.worldenergyoutlook.org/
IGRAC (International Groundwater Resources Assessment Center). 2010. Global Groundwater Information System (GGIS). Delft,
The Netherlands, IGRAC.
http://www.un-igrac.org/publications/104
_____. n.d. Arsenic in groundwater worldwide.
http://www.un-igrac.org/publications/148
IJC (International Joint Commission: Canada and United States). 2013. International Joint Commission 2013 Activities Report.
Washington/Ottawa, DC/Ontario, IJC.
IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change). 2008. Climate Change and Water. Technical Paper of the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change. Geneva, Switzerland, IPCC Secretariat.
https://www.ipcc.ch/publications_and_data/_climate_change_and_water.htm

110

REferences

_____. 2013. Climate Change 2013: The Physical Science Basis. Working Group I Contribution to the Fifth Assessment Report of the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Cambridge/New York, Cambridge University Press.
_____. 2014. Climate Change 2014: Impacts, Adaptation, and Vulnerability. Working Group II Contribution to the Fifth Assessment
Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Cambridge/New York, Cambridge University Press.
IRC (International Water and Sanitation Centre). 2009. Providing Reliable Rural Water Services that Last. Triple-S Briefing. The Hague,
The Netherlands, IRC.
http://reliefweb.int/sites/reliefweb.int/files/resources/9CFE920CDCD215C98525767000578B0B-Full_Report.pdf
Italian Development Cooperation. 2009. Keita Project: Where the man stopped the desert (Niger).
http://www.abidjan.cooperazione.esteri.it/utlabidjan/EN/best_practices/keita.html
IWMI (International Water Management Institute). 2014. Analysis of impacts of large scale investments in agriculture on water
resources, ecosystems and livelihoods; and development of policy options for decision-makers. Presentation at the 5th African Water
Week, Dakar.

J

Jiménez Cisneros, B.E., Oki, T., Arnell, N.W., Benito, G., Cogley, J.G., Döll, P., Jiang, T. and Mwakalila, S.S. 2014. Freshwater resources.
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Climate Change 2014: Impacts, Adaptation, and Vulnerability. Contribution
of Working Group II to the Fifth Assessment Report of the IPCC. Cambridge/New York, UK/USA, Cambridge University Press. pp.
229-269.
Jouravlev, A. 2004. Drinking water supply and sanitation services on the threshold of the XXI century. Santiago, Chile, United Nations
Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (UNECLAC).
http://www.eclac.org/publicaciones/xml/9/19539/lcl2169i.pdf
_____. 2011. Importancia de los recursos hídricos para el desarrollo socioeconómico de la región (legislación hídrica en la adaptación
al cambio climático). Presented during the Workshop: Definición de Prioridades de Investigación Económica sobre la Relación entre
Cambio Climático y Agua en la Región. 30 September-1 October 2011, Panama City, Panama.
http://www.eclac.cl/drni/noticias/noticias/8/44648/Panama_30_09_2011.pdf
Justo, J.B. 2013. El derecho humano al agua y al saneamiento frente a los Objetivos de Desarrollo del Milenio (ODM). Santiago, Chile,
United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (UNECLAC).
http://www.cepal.org/publicaciones/xml/8/49558/Elderechohumanoalagua.pdf

K

Kantor, S. 2012. The Economic Benefits of the San Joaquin River Restoration. Fresno, USA, Fresno Regional Foundation.
Kariuki, M., Patricot, G., Rop, R., Mutono, S. and Makino, M. 2014. Do pro-poor policies increase water coverage? An analysis of
service delivery in Kampala's informal settlements. Water and Sanitation Programme. Washington, DC, The World Bank.
http://www-wds.worldbank.org/external/default/WDSContentServer/WDSP/IB/2014/02/24/000442464_20140224140639/
Rendered/PDF/850530WSP0Box30la0PPPs0Report0Final.pdf
Krop, R., Hernick, C. and Franz, C. 2008. Local Government Investment in Municipal Water and Sewer Infrastructure: Adding Value to
the National Economy. Watertown, USA, Cadmus Group Inc.

L

Ledant, M., Nilsson, D., Calas, B. and Flores Fernandez, R. 2013. Access to Water in Nairobi: Mapping inequalities beyond the
statistics. Nairobi, Global Water Operators’ Partnerships Alliance (GWOPA)/the French Institute for Research in Africa (IFRA).
Lockhart, C. and Vincent, S. 2013. Ending Extreme Poverty in Fragile and Conflict-affected Situations. Background research paper.
Submitted to the High-Level Panel on the Post-2015 Development Agenda.
Lüthi, C., Panesar, A., Schütze, T., Norström, A., McConville, J., Parkinson, J., Saywel, D. and Ingle, R. 2011. Sustainable Sanitation in
Cities: A Framework for Action. Rijswijk, The Netherlands, Sustainable Sanitation Alliance SuSanA/International Forum on Urbanism
(IFoU)/Papiroz Publishing House.
http://www.susana.org/en/resources/library/details/1019

M

Majdalani, R. 2014. Water and Sanitation within the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the post-2015 Development
Agenda: A Regional Perspective. PPT delivered to Seminar on Water and Sanitation Services in the Arab Region: Challenges and
Opportunities. UNESCWA Technology Center, Amman, 11 March 2014.
Martín, L. and Justo, J.B. 2014. Análisis, prevención y resolución de conflictos por agua en América Latina y el Caribe. Unpublished
draft. Santiago, Chile, United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (UNECLAC).
MEA (Millennium Ecosystem Assessment). 2005a. Ecosystems and Human Well-Being: Current State and Trends. Washington, DC,
Island Press.
_____. 2005b. Ecosystems and Human Well-Being: Wetlands and Water Synthesis. Washington, DC, World Resources Institute (WRI).
_____. 2005c. Ecosystem and Human Well-Being: Biodiversity Synthesis. Washington, DC, World Resources Institute (WRI).
Milly, P.C.D., Betancourt, J., Falkenmark, M., Hirsch, R.M., Kundzewicz, Z.W., Lettenmaier, D.P. and Stouffer, R.J. 2010. Stationarity Is
Dead: Whither Water Management? Science, 319 (5963): 573-57A4.

WWDR 2015

111

Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Netherlands. 2012. From infrastructure to sustainable impact: Policy review of the Dutch
contribution to drinking water and sanitation (1990-2011). IOB Evaluation. The Hague, The Netherlands.
Moriarty, P., Batchelor, C., Abd-Alhadi, F.T., Laban, P. and Fahmy, H. 2007. The EMPOWERS Approach to Water Governance:
Guidelines, Methods and Tools. Amman, Jordan, Inter-Islamic Network on Water Resources Development and Management
(INWRDAM)/EMPOWER Partnership.
Morrison, J., Morikawa, M., Murphy, M. and Schulte, P. 2009. Water Scarcity and Climate Change: Growing Risks for Business and
Investors. Boston, MA, USA, Ceres.
Namara, R.E., Hanjra, M.A., Castillo, G.E., Ravnborg, H.M., Smith, L. and Van Koppen, B. 2010. Agricultural water management and
poverty linkages. Agricultural Water Management, 97(4): 520-527.

N

National Constituent Assembly of Tunisia. 2014. Constitution de La République Tunisienne, Article 40. 26 January 2014.
In Arabic and in French: http://www.legislation-securite.tn/fr/node/33504?secondlanguage=ar&op=OK&form_build_id=form-8ce23
fff422d2fbdbba1fd8b49f484cc&form_id=dcaf_multilanguage_form_render
National Drought Forum. 2012. Drought and U.S. Preparedness in 2013 and Beyond, Summary Report and Priority Actions.
Washington, DC, December 12-13, 2012.
http://www.drought.gov/media/pgfiles/2012-droughtForumFullReport.pdf
Nauges, C. and Strand, J. 2011. Water hauling and girls’ school attendance: Some new evidence from Ghana. Policy research working
paper No. 6443. Washington, DC, The World Bank.
Nikulin, G. 2013. Regional Climate Modeling Results and Ensemble using RCA4. PPT delivered to the Fifth Expert Group Meeting of
the Regional Initiative for the Assessment of the Impact of Climate Change on Water Resources and Socio-Economic Vulnerability
in the Arab Region (RICCAR). Amman, Jordan, 11 December 2013.
http://www.escwa.un.org/RICCAR/meetings.asp

O

OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development). 2011. Green Growth Strategy for Food and Agriculture,
Preliminary Report. Paris, OECD.
_____. 2012a. Environmental Outlook to 2050: The Consequences of Inaction. Paris, OECD.
doi:10.1787/9789264122246-en.
_____. 2012b. Environmental Outlook to 2050: The Consequences of Inaction, Key Facts and Figures. Paris, OECD.
OHCHR (Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights). 2010. The Right to Water. Factsheet No. 35, p. 11.
http://www.ohchr.org/Documents/Publications/FactSheet35en.pdf
Onda, K., LoBuglio, J. and Bartram, J. 2012. Global access to safe water: Accounting for water quality and the resulting impact on
MDG progress. International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health, 9(3): 880-894.
doi:10.3390/ijerph9030880.
Pahl-Wostl, C. 2007. Transitions towards adaptive management of water facing climate and global change. Water Resources
Management, 21: 49-62.

P

Perrot-Maître, D.P. and Davis, P. 2001. Case Studies of Markets and Innovative Financial Mechanisms for Water Services from Forests.
Washington, DC, Forest Trends Association.
Pickering, A.J. and Davis, J. 2012. Freshwater Availability and Water Fetching Distance Affect Child Health in Sub-Saharan Africa.
Environmental Science & Technology, 46(4): 2391-2397.
Pimentel, D., Marklein, A., Toth, M.A., Karpoff, M., Paul, G.S., McCormack, R., Kyriazis, J. and Krueger, T. 2008. Biofuel Impacts on
World Food Supply: Use of Fossil Fuel, Land and Water Resources. Energies, 1: 41-78.
Pittock, J. and Xu, M. 2011. Controlling Yangtze River Floods: A New Approach. World Resources Report Case Study. Washington, DC,
World Resources Report.
http://www.wri.org/sites/default/files/uploads/wrr_case_study_controlling_yangtze_river_floods.pdf
Place J., Dutto, P.R. and Casula, V. 2012. Putting water in the mainstream of your business strategy. Prism 1: 69-81. London, Arthur D.
Little.
http://www.adlittle.com/downloads/tx_adlprism/Prism_01-12_water.pdf
Planet Under Pressure. 2012. Water Security for a Planet Under Pressure: Transition to sustainability: Interconnected challenges and
solutions. Rio+20 Policy Brief No.1. London, Planet Under Pressure.
Plummer, J. and Cross, P. 2006. Tackling corruption in the water and sanitation sector in Africa: Starting the dialogue. Water and
Sanitation Program (WSP) working paper. Washington, DC, The World Bank.
documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/2006/12/10087913/tackling-corruption-water-sanitation-sector-africa-starting-dialogue

Q

112

Quick, T. and Winpenny, J. 2014. Topic Guide: Water security and economic development. UK, Evidence on Demand.
http://www.evidenceondemand.info/topic-guide-water-security-and-economic-development

REferences

R

Rockström, J., Karlberg, L., Wani, S., Barron, J., Hatibu, N., Oweis, T., Bruggeman, A., Farahani, J. and Qiang, W. 2010. Managing
water in rainfed agriculture – The need for a paradigm shift. Agricultural Water Management, 97: 543-550.
Rossi, B. 2006. Aid Policies and Recipient Strategies in Niger. Why Donors and Recipients should not be Compartmentalized into
Separate "Worlds of Knowledge". D. Lewis and D. Mosse (eds). Development Brokers and Translators: The Ethnography of Aid and
Agencies. Bloomfield, CT, USA, Kumarian Press, Inc.
Russi, D., Brink, P., Farmer, A., Badura, T., Coates, D., Förster, J., Kumar, R. and Davidson, N. 2012. The Economics of Ecosystems
and Biodiversity for Water and Wetlands. Final Consultation Draft. London/Brussels/Gland, UK/Belgium/Switzerland, Institute for
European Environmental Policy (IEEP)/Ramsar Secretariat.
RWSN (Rural Water Supply Network) Executive Steering Committee. 2010. Myths of the Rural Water Supply Sector. RWSN Perspective
No. 4. St. Gallen, Switzerland, RWSN.

S

Sarni, W. 2011. Corporate Water Strategies. London, Earthscan.
Sato, T., Qadir, M., Yamamoto, S., Endo, T. and Zahoor, A. 2013. Global, regional, and country level need for data on wastewater
generation, treatment, and use. Agricultural Water Management, 130: 1-13.
Schaible, G.D. and Marcel, P.A. 2012. Water Conservation in Irrigated Agriculture: Trends and Challenges in the Face of Emerging
Demands. Economic Information Bulletin No. 99. United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), Economic Research Service.
Scholz, M., Mehl, D., Schulz-Zunkel, C., Kasperidus, H.D., Born, W. and Henle, K. 2012. Ökosystemfunktionen von Flussauen
– Analyse und Bewertung von Hochwasserretention, Nährstoffrückhalt, Kohlenstoffvorrat, Treibhausgasemissionen und
Habitatfunktion [Ecosystem functions in floodplains - analysis of floodwater detention, nutrient retention, carbon storage and
habitat provision]. Naturschutz und Biologische Vielfalt, 124: 257 S.
https://www.bfn.de/fileadmin/MDB/documents/ina/vortraege/2013/2013-Auen-15_Scholz_Oekosystemleistungen_Auen.pdf
Shah, T., Roy, A.D., Qureshi, A.S. and Wang, J. 2003. Sustaining Asia’s Groundwater Boom: An Overview of Issues and Evidence.
Natural Resources Forum – A United Nations Sustainable Development Journal, 27 (2): 130-141.
Shah, T., 2005. Groundwater and Human Development: Challenges and Opportunities in Livelihoods and Environment. Water, Science
& Technology, 51 (8): 27-37.
Shiklomanov, I. 1999. International Hydrological Programme Database. St. Peterburg, Russia, State Hydrological Institute.
http://webworld.unesco.org/water/ihp/db/shiklomanov/
SIWI (Stockholm International Water Institute). 2005. Making Water a Part of Economic Development: The Economic Benefits of
Improved Water Management and Services. Stockholm, SIWI.
Solanes, M. and Jouravlev, A. 2006. Water governance for development and sustainability. Santiago, Chile, United Nations Economic
Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (UNECLAC).
http://www.eclac.org/publicaciones/xml/0/26200/lcl2556e.pdf
_____. 2007. Revisiting privatization, foreign investment, international arbitration, and water. Santiago, Chile, United Nations Economic
Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (UNECLAC).
http://www.eclac.org/publicaciones/xml/0/32120/lcl2827e.pdf
Soussan, J. and Arriens, W.L. 2004. Poverty and water security: Understanding how water affects the poor. Water for All Series No. 2.
Asian Development Bank (ADB).
Sperling, F. and Bahri, A. 2014. Powering Africa’s Green Growth: The importance of Water-Energy Nexus. Presentation at the 5th
Africa Water Week, Dakar, Senegal.
Spiegelhalter, D., Pearson, M. and Short, I. 2011. Visualizing uncertainty about the future. Science, 333: 1393-1400.
Subbiah, A.R., Bildan, L. and Narasimhan, R. 2008. Background Paper on Assessment of the Economics of Early Warning Systems for
Disaster Risk Reduction. Washington, DC, The World Bank.

T

Tettey-Lowor, F. 2009. Closing the loop between sanitation and agriculture in Accra, Ghana: Improving yields in urban agriculture by
using urine as a fertilizer and drivers & barriers for scaling-up. MSC thesis. The Netherlands, Wageningen University.
Todd, M.C., Taylor, R.G., Osborn, T.J., Kingston, D.G., Arnell, N.W. and Gosling, S.N. 2011. Uncertainty in climate change impacts on
basin-scale freshwater resources. Preface to the special issue: The QUEST-GSI methodology and synthesis of results. Hydrology and
Earth System Sciences, 15: 1035-1046.
Tremblay, H. 2011. A Clash of Paradigms in the Water Sector? Tensions and Synergies Between Integrated Water Resources
Management and the Human Rights-Based Approach to Development. Natural Resources Journal, 51: 307-356.
Turpie, J. 2010. Wastewater treatment by wetlands, South Africa. The Economics of Ecosystems and Biodiversity (TEEB).
http://www.eea.europa.eu/atlas/teeb/water-quality-amelioration-value-of/view

WWDR 2015

113

U

UN (United Nations). 2002. Substantive Issues Arising in the Implementation of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and
Cultural Rights. General Comment No. 15, E/C.12/2002/11. Economic and Social Council, Committee on Economic, Social and
Cultural Rights, New York, UN.
_____. 2012. Review of the contributions of the MDG Agenda to foster development: Lessons for the post-2015 UN development
agenda. UN System Task Team on the Post-2015 UN Development Agenda. New York, UN.
_____. 2013a. A new global partnership: Eradicate poverty and transform economies through sustainable development. The Report of
the High-Level Panel of Eminent Persons on the Post-2015 Development Agenda. New York, UN.
_____. 2013b. Economic and social repercussions of the Israeli occupation on the living conditions of the Palestinian people in the
Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and the Arab population in the occupied Syrian Golan. A/68/77–E/2013/13.
New York, UN.
_____. 2013c. TST Issues Brief: Water and Sanitation. Third Session of the Open Working Group, 22-24 May 2013. United Nations
Sustainable Development Knowledge Platform. New York, UN.
UNCESCR (United Nations Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights). 2003. General Comment No. 15: The Right to Water
(Arts. 11 and 12 of the Covenant), 20 January 2003. E/C.12/2002/11.
UNCTAD (United Nations Conference on Trade and Development). 2014. Trade and Development Report, 2014: 135-145.
New York/Geneva, United Nations (UN).
http://unctad.org/en/PublicationsLibrary/tdr2014_en.pdf
UNDESA (United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs). 2012. Back to our Common Future: Sustainable Development
in the 21st Century (SD21) project. New York, United Nations (UN).
_____. 2013a. World Population Prospects: The 2012 Revision. New York, Population Division, United Nations (UN).
http://esa.un.org/wpp/
_____. 2013b. Global Sustainable Development Report – Executive Summary: Building the Common Future We Want. New York,
Division for Sustainable Development, UNDESA.
_____. 2014. World Urbanization Prospects: The 2014 Revision, Highlights. (ST/ESA/SER.A/352). New York, United Nations (UN).
http://esa.un.org/unpd/wup/
UNDESA/UNESCWA. (United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs/United Nations Economic and Social Commission for
Western Asia). 2013. Working draft background paper on the analysis, mapping and identification of critical gaps in pre-impact
and preparedness drought management planning in water-scarce and in-transitioning-settings countries in West Asia/North Africa.
Expert Group and Inception Meeting on Strengthening National Capacities to Manage Water Scarcity and Drought in West Asia
and North Africa. Beirut, 24-25 June 2013.
UNDP (United Nations Development Programme). 2007. Fighting Climate Change: Human solidarity in a divided world. New York, UNDP.
_____. 2013. The Rise of the South: Human Progress in a Diverse World. New York, UNDP.
UNDP/SEI (United Nations Development Programme/Stockholm Environmental Institute). 2006. Linking Poverty Reduction and Water
Management. Poverty-Environment Partnership (PEP) report. New York, UNDP.
UNECA (United Nations Economic Commission for Africa). 2000. The Africa Water Vision for 2025: Equitable and Sustainable Use of
Water for Socioeconomic Development. Produced jointly with UN-Water/Africa, African Development Bank, African Union. Addis
Ababa, UNECA.
UNECE (United Nations Economic Commission for Europe). 2011. Second Assessment of Transboundary Rivers, Lakes and
Groundwaters. New York/Geneva, UNECE.
_____. 2013. The European Union Water Initiative National Policy Dialogues: Achievements and lessons learned. New York/Geneva,
UNECE.
_____. 2014. Alazani/Ganikh River Basin Water-Food-Energy-Ecosystems Nexus assessment. Unpublished first draft report for
comments by the concerned authorities. Prepared by the (KTH, Stockholm) under the supervision of the UNECE Water Convention
Secretariat.
http://www.unece.org/fileadmin/DAM/env/documents/2014/WAT/09Sept_8-9_Geneva/The_Nexus_assessment_in_the_Alazani_consolidated_v19June2014_compatible_1_.pdf
UNECE/OECD (United Nations Economic Commission for Europe/Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development). 2014.
Integrated Water Resources Management in Eastern Europe, the Caucasus and Central Asia: European Union Water Initiative
National Policy Dialogues Progress Report. New York/Geneva, United Nations/OECD.
UNECLAC (United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean). 2001. Network for Cooperation in Integrated
Water Resource Management for Sustainable Development in Latin America and the Caribbean. Circular No.12. Santiago, Chile,
UNECLAC.
http://www.eclac.org/drni/noticias/circulares/2/6202/Carta12in.pdf

114

REferences

_____. 2013a. Economic Survey of Latin America and the Caribbean 2013. LC/G.2574-P. Santiago, Chile, UNECLAC.
http://www.cepal.org/publicaciones/xml/3/50483/EconomicSurvey2013complete.pdf
_____. 2013b. Social Panorama of Latin America 2013. Briefing paper. Santiago, Chile, UNECLAC.
http://www.cepal.org/publicaciones/xml/8/51768/SocialPanorama2013Briefing.pdf
UNEP (United Nations Environment Programme). 2002. The World’s International Freshwater Agreements. Nairobi, UNEP.
_____. 2004. Women and Water Management: An integrated approach. Women and the Environment, Nairobi, UNEP. pp. 60-83.
_____. 2009. From Conflict to Peacebuilding – The Role of Natural Resources and the Environment. Nairobi, UNEP.
_____. 2011. Towards a Green Economy: Pathways to Sustainable Development and Poverty Eradication. Nairobi, UNEP.
http://www.unep.org/greeneconomy/greeneconomyreport/tabid/29846/default.aspx
_____. 2012. Measuring Water Use in a Green Economy: A Report of the Working Group on Water Efficiency to the International
Resource Panel. Nairobi, UNEP.
UNEP/UNEP-DHI/IUCN/TNC (United Nations Environment Programme/UNEP-DHI Partnership – Centre on Water and Environment/
International Union for Conservation of Nature/The Nature Conservancy). 2014. Green Infrastructure Guide for Water
Management: Ecosystem-based management approaches for water-related infrastructure projects. Nairobi, UNEP.
UNESCAP (United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific). 2013. Statistical Yearbook for Asia and the
Pacific 2013. Bangkok, UNESCAP.
UNESCAP/UNISDR (United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific/United Nations Office for Disaster Risk
Reduction). 2012. Reducing Vulnerability and Exposure to Disasters. The Asia-Pacific Disaster Report 2012. Bangkok, UNESCAP/
UNISDR.
UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization). 2012. World’s groundwater resources are suffering from
poor governance. UNESCO Natural Sciences Sector News. Paris, UNESCO.
UNESCWA (United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia). 2013a. Drought in the ESCWA Region: Technical
Material. E/ESCWA/SDPD/WP/2013.
_____. 2013b. Water Development Report 5: Issues in Sustainable Water Resources Management and Water Services. New York,
United Nations (UN).
UNESCWA/BGR (United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia/Bundesanstalt für Geowissenschaften und
Rohstoffe). 2013. Inventory of Shared Water Resources in Western Asia. Beirut, UNESCWA.
UNGA (United Nations General Assembly). 2001. Road map towards the implementation of the United Nations Millennium
Declaration. Report of the Secretary General. Fifty-sixth session. 6 September 2001. New York, UN.
_____. 2010. The human right to water and sanitation. Sixty-fourth session, 3 August 2010. 2A/RES/64/292. New York, UN.
_____. 2013. Report of the Special Rapporteur on the human right to safe drinking water and sanitation. Sixty-eighth session,
5 August 2013. A/68/264. New York, UN.
_____. 2014. Report of the Open Working Group on Sustainable Development Goals established pursuant to General Assembly
resolution 66/288. 12 September 2014. Resolution A/RES/68/309. New York, UN.
UN-Habitat (United Nations Human Settlements Programme). 2010. State of the World's Cities 2010/2011 Report: Bridging the Urban
Divide. Nairobi, UN-Habitat.
_____. 2011. World Water Day 2011: Water and urbanization. Water for Cities: Responding to the urban challenge. Final Report
Nairobi, UN-Habitat.
_____. 2013. State of the World's Cities 2012/2013: Prosperity of Cities. Nairobi, UN-Habitat.
UNICEF (United Nations Children's Fund). 2013. WASH Sector, Syria. PPT presentation. Damascus, October 2013.
UNIDO (United Nations Industrial Development Organization). 2008. Policies for Promoting Industrial Energy Efficiency in Developing
Countries and Transition Economies, Executive Summary. Vienna, UNIDO.
_____. 2011a. UNIDO Green Industry Policies for supporting Green Industry. Vienna, UNIDO.
http://www.unido.org/fileadmin/user_media/Services/Green_Industry/web_policies_green_industry.pdf
_____. 2011b. UNIDO Green Industry Initiative for Sustainable Industrial Development. Vienna, UNIDO.
http://www.greenindustryplatform.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/05/Green-Industry-Initiative-for-Sustainable-IndustrialDevelopment.pdf
_____. 2013. The Lima Declaration. 15th Session of UNIDO General Conference. Lima, Peru, 2 December 2013. Vienna, UNIDO.
http://www.unido.org/fileadmin/user_media_upgrade/Media_center/2013/News/GC15/UNIDO_GC15_Lima_Declaration.pdf

WWDR 2015

115

_____. 2014. UNIDO-Industry Partnerships. Presentation by I. Volodin at 2014 UN-Water Annual International Zaragoza Conference.
Preparing for World Water Day 2014: Partnerships for improving water and energy access, efficiency and sustainability. 13-16
January 2014. Vienna, UNIDO.
http://www.un.org/waterforlifedecade/water_and_energy_2014/presentations.shtml
UNISDR (United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction). 2012. Infographic on Impacts of Disasters since the 1992 Rio de Janeiro
Earth Summit.
http://www.unisdr.org/files/27162_infographic.pdf
UNOSD/UNU (United Nations Office for Sustainable Development/ United Nations University). 2013. Water for Sustainability: Framing
Water within the Post-2015 Development Agenda. Incheon/Hamilton, Republic of Korea/Canada, UNOSD/UNU.
UN-Water. 2012. The UN-Water Status Report on the Application of Integrated Approaches to Water Resources Management.
New York, UN-Water.
_____. 2013. The Post-2015 Water Thematic Consultation Report: The World We Want. New York, UN-Water.
http://www.unwater.org/downloads/Final9Aug2013_WATER_THEMATIC_CONSULTATION_REPORT.pdf
_____. 2014. A Post-2015 Global Goal for Water: Synthesis of key findings and recommendations from UN-Water. New York, UN-Water.
http://www.un.org/waterforlifedecade/pdf/27_01_2014_un-water_paper_on_a_post2015_global_goal_for_water.pdf
UN-Water/FAO. 2007. 2007 World Water Day: Coping with Water Scarcity: Challenge of the twenty-first century.
http://www.fao.org/nr/water/docs/escarcity.pdf
UN-Women. 2012. The Future Women Want: A Vision of Sustainable Development for All. New York, United Nations (UN).
USCB (United States Census Bureau). 2012. International Programs. World Population.
http://www.census.gov/population/international/data/worldpop/table_population.php
USGS (United States Geological Survey). 2013. Land subsistence.
http://ga.water.usgs.gov/edu/earthgwlandsubside.html.
van den Berg, C. and Danilenko, A. 2011. The IBNET Water and Sanitation Performance Blue Book 2011. Washington, DC,
The World Bank.

V

van der Gun, J. 2012. Groundwater and global change: Trends, opportunities and challenges. WWDR4 Side Publication Series No. 01.
Paris, UNESCO.
Viviroli, D., Archer, D.R., Buytaert, W., Fowler, H.J., Greenwood, G.B., Hamlet, A.F., Huang, Y., Koboltschnig, G., Litaor, M.I., LópezMoreno, J.I., Lorentz, S., Schädler, B., Schreier, H., Schwaiger, K., Vuille, M. and Woods, R. 2011. Climate change and mountain
water resources: Overview and recommendations for research, management and policy. Hydrology and Earth System Sciences, 15:
471-504.
Vörösmarty, C.J., McIntyre, P.B., Gessner, M.O., Dudgeon, D., Prusevich, A., Green, P., Glidden, S., Bunn, S.E., Sullivan, C.A., Reidy
Liermann, C. and Davies, P.M. 2010. Global threats to human water security and river biodiversity. Nature, 467: 555-561.

W

Wang, J., Rothausen, S., Conway, D., Zhang L., Xiong, W., Holman, I. and Li, Y. 2012. China's water–energy nexus: Greenhouse-gas
emissions from groundwater use for agriculture. Environmental Research Letters, 7014035.
WaterAid India. 2008. Feeling the Pulse: A study of the Total Sanitation Campaign in Five States. New Delhi, WaterAid India.
WBCSD (World Business Council for Sustainable Development). 2012. Water valuation: Building the business case. Geneva,
Switzerland, WBSCD.
http://www.wbcsd.org/Pages/EDocument/EDocumentDetails.aspx?ID=15099&NoSearchContextKey=true
WEF (World Economic Forum). 2014a. Global Risks 2014: Ninth edition. Geneva, Switzerland, WEF.
_____. 2014b. Outlook on the Global Agenda 2014. Geneva, Switzerland, WEF.
WGF (Water Governance Facility). 2012. Human Rights-Based Approaches and Managing Water Resources: Exploring the potential for
enhancing development outcomes. WGF Report No. 1. Stockholm, Stockholm International Water Institute (SIWI).
_____. 2013. Mutual Rights and Shared Responsibilities in Water Services Management: Enhancing the User-Provider Relation. WGF
Report No. 2. Stockholm, Stockholm International Water Institute (SIWI).
_____. 2014. Mainstreaming Gender in Water Governance Programmes: From Design to Results. WGF Report No. 4. Stockholm,
Stockholm International Water Institute (SIWI).
WHO (World Health Organization). 2011. Guidelines for Drinking Water Quality: Fourth edition. Geneva, Switzerland, WHO.
_____. 2012a. UN-Water Global annual assessment of sanitation and drinking-water (GLAAS) 2012 report: The challenge of extending
and sustaining services. Geneva, Switzerland, WHO.

116

REferences

_____. 2012b. Global costs and benefits of drinking-water supply and sanitation interventions to reach the MDG target and universal
coverage. Geneva, Switzerland, WHO.
_____. 2014. Investing in water and sanitation: Increasing access, reducing inequalities. Geneva, Switzerland, WHO.
_____. n.d. Definition of food security (World Food Summit of 1996). WHO
http://www.who.int/trade/glossary/story028/en/
WHO/DFID (World Health Organization/Department for Internal Development). 2009. Vision 2030: The resilience of water supply and
sanitation in the face of climate change. Geneva, Switzerland, WHO.
WHO and UNICEF (World Health Organization/United Nations Children's Fund). 2011. Drinking water: Equity, Safety and
Sustainability. Geneva/New York, WHO/UNICEF.
_____. 2012. Progress on drinking water and sanitation: 2012 update. New York, WHO/UNICEF Joint Monitoring Programme for
Water Supply and Sanitation.
_____. 2013. Progress on Drinking Water and Sanitation: 2013 Update. New York, WHO/UNICEF Joint Monitoring Programme for
Water Supply and Sanitation.
_____. 2014a. Progress on drinking water and sanitation: 2014 Update. New York, WHO/UNICEF Joint Monitoring Programme for
Water Supply and Sanitation.
_____. 2014b. Data and estimates. New York, WHO/UNICEF Joint Monitoring Programme for Water Supply and Sanitation.
http://www.wssinfo.org/
Williams, E.D. and Simmons, J.E. 2013. Water in the energy industry: An introduction. London, BP (British Petroleum) International Ltd.
WMO (World Meteorological Organization). 2009. Guide to Hydrological Practices 6th edition. WMO Publication No. 168. Geneva,
Switzerland, WMO.
WNA (World Nuclear Association). 2013. Nuclear Power in Saudi Arabia. Updated December 2013.
http://www.world-nuclear.org/info/Country-Profiles/Countries-O-S/Saudi-Arabia/
World Bank. 2007a. World Development Report 2008. Agriculture for Development. Washington, DC, The World Bank.
_____. 2007b. Cost of pollution in China: Economic estimates of physical damages. Washington, DC, The World Bank.
_____. 2010a. Economics of Adaptation to Climate Change: Synthesis Report. Washington, DC, The World Bank.
http://www-wds.worldbank.org/external/default/WDSContentServer/WDSP/IB/2012/06/27/000425970_20120627163039/
Rendered/PDF/702670ESW0P10800EACCSynthesisReport.pdf
_____. 2010b. Climate Finance in the Urban Contex. Issues Brief No. 4. Washington, DC, The World Bank.
http://wbi.worldbank.org/wbi/Data/wbi/wbicms/files/drupal-acquia/wbi/578590revised0101Public10DCFIB0141A.pdf
_____. 2010c. Climate Risks and Adaptation in Asian Coastal Megacities. Washington, DC, The World Bank.
_____. 2011. Thailand environment monitor: Integrated water resources management - A way forward. Washington, DC, The World
Bank.
_____. 2012. A Primer on Energy Efficiency for Municipal Water and Wastewater Utilities. Technical Report No. 1. Washington, DC,
Energy Sector Management Assistance Program, The World Bank.
_____. 2013. Thirsty Energy. Water Papers 78923. Washington, DC, Water Unit, Transportation, Water and ICT Department,
Sustainable Development Vice Presidency, The World Bank.
World Economics. 2014. World Economics: Global Growth Tracker.
http://www.worldeconomics.com/papers/Global%20Growth%20Monitor_7c66ffca-ff86-4e4c-979d-7c5d7a22ef21.paper
Wouters, P. 2011. Climate Change and its implications for sustainable development and cooperation in the Nile Basin: Threats
and opportunities to Nile Basin Cooperation. Presentation at the 3rd Nile Basin Development Forum, 26-28 October 2011, Kigali,
Rwanda.
http://www.slideshare.net/jmccaffery57/pat-wouters-kigali-keynote-talk-27-oct-2011-last
WSP (Water and Sanitation Program) 2013. Review of Community-Managed Decentralized Wastewater Treatment Systems in
Indonesia. Washington, DC, The World Bank.
http://www.wsp.org/sites/wsp.org/files/publications/WSP-Review-DEWATS-Indonesia-Technical-Paper.pdf
WWAP (World Water Assessment Programme). 2006. The United Nations World Water Development Report 2: Water: A Shared
Responsibility. Paris/New York, UNESCO/Berghahn Books.
_____. 2009. The United Nations World Water Development Report 3: Water in a Changing World. Paris/New York, UNESCO/
Earthscan.

WWDR 2015

117

_____. 2012. The United Nations World Water Development Report 4: Managing Water under Uncertainty and Risk. Paris, UNESCO.
_____. 2014. The United Nations World Water Development Report 2014: Water and Energy. Paris, UNESCO.
_____. 2015. Facing the Challenges. Case Studies and Indicators. Paris, UNESCO.
WWF (World Wide Fund For Nature). 2008. Water for life: Lessons for climate change adaptation from better management of rivers
for people and nature. Gland, Switzerland, WWF.
_____. 2012. Living Planet Report 2012: Biodiversity, Biocapacity and Better Choices. Gland, Switzerland, WWF international.
WWF/DEG KFW Bankengruppe. 2011. Assessing Water Risk: A Practical Approach for Financial Institutions. Berlin, WWF Germany.

Z

118

Zekri, S., Karimi, A. and Madani, K. 2014. Groundwater Policing for a Sustainable Food Supply in Oman. Paper delivered to the 41st
International Association of Hydrologists (IAH) Congress: Groundwater: Challenges and Strategies. Moroccan Chapter. 15-19
September 2014, Marrakech.

REferences

Abbreviations and acronyms

2030 WRG	
2030 Water Resources Group
ACET	
African Centre for Economic Transformation
AfDB	
African Development Bank Group
AMCOW	
African Ministers’ Council on Water
ASCE	
American Society of Civil Engineers
AU	
African Union
Best Available Techniques/Technology
BAT	
BGR	
Bundesanstalt für Geowissenschaften und Rohstoffe
BRICS	
Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa
BRIICS	Brazil, Russia, India, Indonesia, China and South Africa
CAP	
European Union Common Agricultural Policy
Convention on Biological Diversity
CBD	
Centre for Research on the Epidemiology of Disasters
CRED	
DALYs	
Disability-adjusted life years
DEWATS	
Decentralized wastewater treatment systems
DFID	
Department for Internal Development (United Kingdom)
EAFRD	
European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development
EBM	
Ecosystem-based management
EC	
European Commission
ECA	
European Court of Auditors
ECCAS	
Economic Community of Central African States
EEA	
European Environment Agency
Eastern Europe, the Caucasus and Central Asia
EECCA	
Environmental Protection Agency
EPA	
European Union
EU	
Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FAO	
Gross Domestic Product
GDP	
Global Environment Facility
GEF	
Greenhouse gas
GHG	
Global Water Partnership
GWP	
Human Development Index
HDI	
Human Development Report
HDR	
High Level Panel of Experts on Food Security and Nutrition
HLPE	
ICARDA	
International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas
ICMM	
International Council on Mining and Metals
ICPDR	
International Commission for the Protection of the Danube River
International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid-Tropics
ICRISAT	
IEA	
International Energy Agency
IFAD	
International Fund for Agricultural Development
International Groundwater Resources Assessment Centre
IGRAC	
IJC 	
International Joint Commission (Canada and United States)
IPCC	
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
IRC	
International Water and Sanitation Centre
IUCN	
International Union for Conservation of Nature
IUWM	
Integrated urban water management
IWMI	
International Water Management Institute
IWRM	
Integrated Water Resources Management

WWDR 2015

119

JMP	
LSALI	
MDGs	
MEA	
NI	
OECD	
OHCHR	
OWG	
PES	
PV	
RWSN	
SDGs	
SEI	
SIDS	
SIWI	
SMEs	
SRBC	
TNC	
UN	
UNCESCR	
UNCTAD	
UNDESA	
UNDP	
UN-DPAC	
UNECA	
UNECE	
UNECLAC	
UNEP	
UNESCAP	
UNESCO	
UNESCWA	
UNGA	
UN-Habitat	
UNIDO	
UNISDR	
UNOSD	
UNU	
USCB	
USGS	
WASH	
WBCSD	
WEF	
WFA	
WGF	
WHO	
WMO	
WNA	
WRI	
WSP	
WWAP	
WWF	

120

WHO/UNICEF Joint Monitoring Programme for Water Supply and Sanitation
Large-scale agricultural lease investments
Millennium Development Goals
Millennium Ecosystem Assessment
Natural Infrastructure
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights
Open Working Group
Payment for ecosystem/environmental services
Solar photovoltaic
Rural Water Supply Network
Sustainable Development Goals
Stockholm Environmental Institute
Small Island Developing States
Stockholm International Water Institute
Small and medium-sized enterprises
International Sava River Basin Commission
The Nature Conservancy
United Nations
United Nations Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs
United Nations Development Programme
United Nations Decade Programme on Advocacy and Communication
United Nations Economic Commission for Africa
United Nations Economic Commission for Europe
United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean
United Nations Environment Programme
United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific
United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia
United Nations General Assembly
United Nations Human Settlements Programme
United Nations Industrial Development Organization
United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction
United Nations Office for Sustainable Development
United Nations University
United States Census Bureau
United States Geological Survey
Water, Sanitation and Hygiene
World Business Council for Sustainable Development
World Economic Forum
Water Footprint Assessment
Water Governance Facility
World Health Organization
World Meteorological Organization
World Nuclear Association
World Resources Institute
Water and Sanitation Program
World Water Assessment Programme
World Wide Fund For Nature/World Wildlife Fund

Abbreviations and acronyms

BOXES, TABLES AND FIGURES

Boxes
1.1	The terms ‘safe’ and ‘improved’ in the MDG context	

15

2.1	

19

Water supply investments: The importance of governance and financing for reducing poverty	

2.2	Safeguarding the interests of poor people: Global trends with local effects 	

20

3.1	Opportunities for water investments to facilitate economic growth	

23

3.2	Investing in water infrastructure: When damages avoided become main benefits	

24

3.3	Investing in water: A wise policy option that’s good for business	

24

3.4	Still many opportunities to do more with less	

25

3.5	Trade-offs in water and production	

26

3.6	Investing in protecting water resources	

26

4.1	Reconnecting lakes in the Central Yangtze River Basin 	

28

4.2	

Wastewater treatment in the Fynbos Ecosystem, South Africa 	

31

4.3	Transboundary collaboration for healthy ecosystems and community engagement	

32

5.1	Examples of unsustainable WASH	

38

5.2	A focus on providing for the poorest leads to more equitable WASH outcomes in South Africa	

38

6.1	

45

Pro-poor policies in Kampala	

6.2	Forest conservation by a water utility in Costa Rica	

45

6.3	

46

Phnom Penh water supply: An example of good governance	

6.4	DEWATS in Indonesia 	

46

7.1	Deficit irrigation for high yield and maximum net profits	

49

7.2	Rio Rural: Payments for environmental services in a watershed management programme 	

50

7.3	The Keita Project: Exploring the range of water conservation options in western Niger	

51

7.4	Strengthening adaptive capacity of smallholder farmers through land and water management	

52

7.5	

Groundwater governance in Andhra Pradesh, India	

53

9.1	

Mining and water sustainability: Minera Esperanza, Chile	

58

9.2	

Water and wastewater in eco-industrial parks	

59

9.3	United Nations post-2015 global goal for water and what it means for industry	

61

15.1	 Kofi Annan on Africa’s green and blue revolutions	

85

15.2	The Grand Inga project 	

88

15.3	Large-scale agricultural lease investments	

89

16.1	 Millennium Development Goal 7: Ensure environmental sustainability 	

93

16.2	Outcomes of a dedicated SDG for water as suggested by UN-Water	

95

16.3	Text related to water and sanitation in the final report of the Open Working Group on SDGs	

96

WWDR 2015

121

Tables
4.1	Overview of natural infrastructure solutions for water resources management	

33

9.1	UNIDO’s Green Industry Initiative	

63

Figures

122

1.1	Total renewable water resources per capita (2013) 	

12

5.1	Schematic of criteria for sustainable water, sanitation and hygiene services and their key impacts on
sustainable development 	

37

5.2	Strong growth of bottled and sachet water as a main drinking water source in urban settings (2000-2012)	

39

5.3	Sanitation coverage (%) in Ethiopia, by province (2000-2012)	

41

6.1	

42

Global water demand in 2000 and 2050	

6.2	Trends in urban water supply coverage (1990-2012)	

43

6.3	Access to sanitation in urban Cambodia in different wealth quintiles	

43

6.4	Access to water in Mombasa's informal settlements	

44

7.1	The five principles of sustainable agriculture	

48

9.1	Examples of water hotspots in selected industries	

60

9.2	Relative water footprint of various industry sectors	

62

9.3	

63

Water stewardship strategy for industry	

12.1	 Growth in agricultural groundwater use in selected countries (1940-2010)	

75

12.2	Agricultural groundwater use in China (km3 per year)	

76

12.3	 Map of arsenic traces in groundwater in Asia	

77

13.1	 Per capita share of renewable water resources in selected Arab region countries (2011)	

78

15.1	The water-food-energy nexus in Africa 	

86

BOXES, TABLES AND FIGURES

The United Nations World Water Development Report

ISBN 978-92-3-104259-1
© UNESCO 2014
Set of two volumes
232 pages
Price: EUR 55.00

ISBN 978-92-3-100080-5
© UNESCO 2015
Set of two reports
216 pages
Price: EUR 45.00

Full colour, with photographs, tables, figures, maps, boxes, notes,
references and abbreviations list as well as Forewords by United Nations
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, UNESCO Director General Irina Bokova
and UN-Water Chair and WMO Secretary-General Michel Jarraud.

WWDR 2015 Full colour, with photographs, tables, figures, maps, boxes,
notes, references and abbreviations list as well as Forewords by United
Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, UNESCO Director General Irina
Bokova and UN-Water Chair and WMO Secretary-General Michel Jarraud.
Case Studies and Indicators Report Full colour, with photographs, tables,
figures, maps, boxes, notes, references and abbreviations list as well as a
Preface by WWAP Coordinator a.i. and Author.

To purchase a printed copy of the book, please visit: http://publishing.unesco.org
To request a CD-ROM containing the report and associated publications, please write to: wwap@unesco.org
To download the PDF and e-book (.epub format) formats of the report and associated publications, previous WWDRs and media material,
please visit: http://www.unesco.org/water/wwap
CD-ROM 2015 content: WWDR 2015, Case Studies and Indicators Report, Executive Summary in 10 languages, Facts & Figures in 4 languages

Associated publications

Executive Summary of the
WWDR 2014

Facts and Figures from the
WWDR 2O14

Executive Summary of the
WWDR 2015

Facts and Figures from the
WWDR 2015

12 pages
Available in English, French
and Spanish

16 pages
Available in English, French
and Spanish

8 pages
Available in Arabic, Chinese,
English, French, German, Italian,
Korean, Portuguese, Russian
and Spanish

12 pages
Available in English, French,
Spanish and Italian

To download these documents, please visit: http://www.unesco.org/water/wwap

UN-Water Reports

UN-Water is the United Nations (UN) inter-agency coordination mechanism for freshwater related issues, including sanitation. It was formally
established in 2003 building on a long history of collaboration in the UN family. UN-Water is comprised of UN entities with a focus on, or
interest in, water related issues as Members and other non-UN international organizations as Partners.
The work of UN-Water is organized around Thematic Priority Areas and Task Forces as well as awareness-raising campaigns such as World
Water Day (22 March) and World Toilet Day (19 November).
The main purpose of UN-Water is to complement and add value to existing programmes and projects by facilitating synergies and joint efforts,
so as to maximize system-wide coordinated action and coherence. By doing so, UN-Water seeks to increase the effectiveness of the support
provided to Member States in their efforts towards achieving international agreements on water.

PERIODIC REPORTS
World Water Development Report (WWDR)
is the reference publication of the UN system on the status of the freshwater resource. The Report
is the result of the strong collaboration among UN-Water Members and Partners and it represents
the coherent and integrated response of the UN system to freshwater-related issues and emerging
challenges. The report production coordinated by the World Water Assessment Programme and the
theme is harmonized with the theme of World Water Day (22 March). From 2003 to 2012, the WWDR was
released every three years and from 2014 the Report is released annually to provide the most up to date
and factual information of how water-related challenges are addressed around the world.

UN-Water Global Analysis and Assessment of Sanitation and Drinking-Water (GLAAS)
is produced by the World Health Organization (WHO) on behalf of UN-Water. It provides a global update
on the policy frameworks, institutional arrangements, human resource base, and international and
national finance streams in support of sanitation and drinking water. It is a substantive input into the
activities of Sanitation and Water for All (SWA).

The progress report of the WHO/UNICEF Joint Monitoring
Programme for Water Supply and Sanitation (JMP)
is affiliated with UN-Water and presents the results of the global monitoring of progress towards MDG 7
target C: to halve, by 2015, the proportion of the population without sustainable access to safe drinkingwater and basic sanitation. Monitoring draws on the findings of household surveys and censuses usually
supported by national statistics bureaus in accordance with international criteria.

 Strategic outlook
 State, uses and management of
water resources
 Global
 Regional assessments
 Triennial (2003-2012)
 Annual (from 2014)
 Links to the theme of World
Water Day (22 March)

 Strategic outlook
 Water supply and sanitation
 Global
 Regional assessments
 Biennial (since 2008)

 Status and trends
 Water supply and sanitation
 Global
 Regional and national
assessments
 Biennial (1990-2012)
 Annual updates (since 2013)

UN-WATER PLANNED PUBLICATIONS 2015
•
•
•
•
•
•

UN-Water Analytical Brief on Wastewater Management
UN-Water Analytical Brief on Water Efficiency
UN-Water Analytical Brief on Water Quality Monitoring
UN-Water Country Briefs
UN-Water Policy Brief on Discrimination and the Right to Water and Sanitation
UN-Water Report on the International Decade for Action 'Water for Life' 2005-2015

More information on UN-Water Reports at: http://www.unwater.org/publications

WWDR 2015

Chapter title

125

The United Nations World Water Assessment Programme (WWAP) is hosted and led by UNESCO. WWAP brings
together the work of 31 UN-Water Members as well as 37 Partners to publish the United Nations World Water
Development Report (WWDR) series.
Under the theme Water for Sustainable Development, the WWDR 2015 has been prepared as a contribution
from UN-Water to the discussions surrounding the post-2015 framework for global sustainable development.
Highlighting water’s unique and often complex role in achieving various sustainable development objectives,
the WWDR 2015 is addressed to policy- and decision-makers­inside and outside the water community, as well
as to anyone with an interest in freshwater and its many life-giving benefits.
The report sets an aspirational yet achievable vision for the future of water towards 2050 by describing how
water supports healthy and prosperous human communities, maintains well functioning ecosystems and
ecological services, and provides a cornerstone for short and long-term economic development. It provides an
overview of the challenges, issues and trends in terms of water resources, their use and water-related services
like water supply and sanitation. The report also offers, in a rigorous yet accessible manner, guidance about
how to address these challenges and to seize the opportunities that sound water management provides in
order to achieve and maintain economic, social and environmental sustainability.

This publication is financed by
the Government of Italy and Umbria Region.

126

Chapter
1	
9 789231

000805

STATUS, TRENDS AND CHALLENGES

